1. La Présidente :   Mesdames et Messieurs, bonjour. Je voudrais au nom de mon pays et en mon nom propre, et en tant que Vice- Présidente de la Conférence, ouvrir les débats. Je souhaiterais vous rappeler que chaque orateur disposera de huit  minutes. Nous avons une série de pays à entendre. Nous devrions finir normalement à 11 heures car le Directeur  général devrait être dans la salle pour accueillir un chef d’État. Ce matin, c’est Son Excellence Monsieur Cristian Mihai  Adomnitei, Ministre de l’éducation, de la recherche et de la jeunesse de la Roumanie, qui va commencer. Il sera suivi par  la Belgique. Sans plus tarder, je donne la parole au représentant de la Roumanie.
2.1 Mr Adomnitei (Romania):   Your Excellencies, Mr President of the UNESCO General Conference, Mr Chairperson of the Executive Board,  Mr Director-General, ladies and gentlemen, first of all I would like to say that we are honoured to participate in the 34th  session of the UNESCO General Conference, which we all value as an excellent opportunity for debate and cooperation  between politicians, experts and practitioners, and a forum for exchanging ideas and best practices. We would also like  to extend a strong welcome to the UNESCO family to Montenegro, and to salute the return of Singapore.
2.2 Romania considers that in the face of the new challenges confronting the world, UNESCO plays, and will  continue to play, a key role in supporting cooperation in its specific fields of education, science, culture and  communication to the benefit of all Member States. In this context, Romania considers it important to support UNESCO’s  efforts in promoting education for all (EFA), fighting poverty, and preserving culture and cultural heritage, as well as in  innovation, science and research.
2.3 The Universal Declaration of Human Rights asserts that “everyone has the right to education”, and Romania’s  Constitution clearly mentions the right of each person to free education at every level. Our guiding principles on which  the education system is built are quality of education, freedom to choose the language of instruction, with ethnic  minorities given the right to study in their own mother tongues, and the freedom of religious education in keeping with the  requirements of each religion. The guidelines for reforming our education system are consistent with the principle of  education for all as established by UNESCO on the occasion of the Dakar World Education Forum. In Romania, we are  all striving to make all the necessary efforts to offer our young citizens the highest quality education and training, and to  build appropriate educational pathways adapted to each person’s background, skills or needs. Please allow me to  mention here the commitment of my government, led by Prime Minister Călin Popescu-Tăriceanu, to supporting the  education system by allocating it a budget of 6% of GDP for 2008, together with another 0.75% of GDP in public funds  for research development and innovation. This is the largest amount that Romania has ever allocated to education. We  also pay special attention to the provision of equal opportunities for quality education to disadvantaged groups, tailoring  special social programmes to the needs of individuals from disadvantaged families or areas. I take this opportunity to  assure you of the great importance attached by the Romanian Government to the international development efforts  relevant to education. In this regard, I should particularly mention the drafting of new legislation for education, including  higher education, which is soon to be finalized and to enter into our governmental and parliamentary decision-making  processes. Important steps forward are proposed in the draft law on higher education to make our study programmes  more flexible with new procedures and national standards for quality assurance, focused on learning outcomes and  institutional quality management; the development of a transferable credit system; new incentives for global financing  linked to research outputs; and diversification of the study scholarship system. Internationalization of education is  another keyword for my government. As you are all very well aware, making changes really happen is not an easy,  smooth endeavour, and partnerships are crucial in this respect. In all our efforts, we have closely cooperated with those  that have the expertise and experience in reforming higher education systems. The UNESCO European Centre for  Higher Education (CEPES) has always been among our key partners, and I take this opportunity to acknowledge its  support in this respect. We have actively taken part in many of the activities linked with such programmes, and we will  continue to cooperate with UNESCO by playing our part and presenting, when appropriate, our experience in the field of  reforming our higher education system. Romania considers that education and training systems should also embrace  adult education in the context of lifelong learning. This could be achieved by comparing policy initiatives and introducing  benchmarks and indicators, and tools and databases for best practices in formal, non-formal and informal education.
2.4 Distinguished colleagues, we all know that science and research, too, are important elements of UNESCO’s  strategies and policies. We all agree that universities, research institutes and private enterprise have an essential role to  play in promoting research that supports economic growth and environmental protection. Universities and other  institutions of higher education also have a key role in providing education and training that helps people make full use of  sustainable technologies. We consider that the national need for innovation can be correlated with the development of  science and technology at a global level through research-action networks where multidisciplinary international  cooperation will set out to resolve specifically identified problems. International mobility is a key dimension of research  and training. In this context, we fully support the UNESCO programmes addressing the current problems in science and  technology.
2.5 Ladies and gentlemen, the UNESCO Convention on the Protection and Promotion of the Diversity of Cultural  Expressions is a significant step forward in the assertion of a new political will to depart from purely commercial goals in
237  the area of promoting and disseminating different forms of cultural expression. Romania takes an active interest in  supporting and promoting this essential new international legal instrument. During these last few years, Romania has  fully supported UNESCO’s efforts to carry out coherent standard-setting activities in specific areas such as the protection  of the underwater cultural heritage. Within the framework of the new convention, Romania’s cultural action directly  targets European Union Member States and neighbouring countries in the south-eastern Europe and the Black Sea  regions, while also paying special attention to the needs and expectations of Romanian communities living abroad and  the general public. In this context, we had the honour to host this year in Bucharest and Sibiu – the European Capital of  Culture in 2007 together with Luxembourg – a high-level conference promoting intercultural dialogue in south-east  Europe. We are also interested in setting up in Sibiu a centre of excellence specializing in the field of the south-east  European intangible heritage.
2.6 Ladies and gentlemen, the challenges we are all facing at present as a result of globalization make it necessary  for us to increase and enhance our cooperation with each other, and the community of UNESCO institutes and networks  represents an important source of tools for that purpose. I say this with confidence, as I know that I am addressing an  auditorium that shares UNESCO’s prominent values, and a praiseworthy determination to defend the idea of democratic  cooperation for progress. Ladies and gentlemen, we believe that international exchanges, networking and  interdisciplinary projects and tools can support our cooperation, and that UNESCO, thanks to its vitality and its policies, is  able to be more forceful and visible on the international scene, and to cooperate effectively with other international  organizations in order to achieve our common goals. Thank you very much for your attention.   (Applause)
3. La Présidente :   Merci, Monsieur le Ministre. Vous avez respecté à peu près les huit minutes. Nous allons passer la parole au  prochain orateur, en espérant que lui aussi les respectera. Je donne la parole au Ministre de la politique extérieure des  affaires européennes de Belgique.
4.1 Mr Bourgeois (Belgium):   Mr President, dear Members of the General Conference, in my capacity as Flemish Minister for Foreign Policy  and European Affairs, it is an honour for me to attend this session of the General Conference and to take the floor on  behalf of Belgium. Before considering the challenges UNESCO is facing, I would like to endorse the statement made by  Portugal on behalf of the European Union.
4.2 Ladies and gentlemen, one of the most important tasks now facing UNESCO is the “One United Nations”  initiative, and I hope it will seize this challenge as an opportunity to improve and restructure itself. Without a doubt, this  will call for wide-ranging internal adjustments. Probably, a review of UNESCO’s presence in the field – in regional  bureaux and cluster and country offices – is needed. We think it important to have a clear definition of UNESCO’s  responsibilities in relation to the activities of other specialized agencies at field level, and that its activities are consistent  with the priorities of the countries involved. It is essential for its legitimacy to create a broad social basis. Therefore, we  would welcome a comprehensive communication plan for UNESCO. A clear link with civil society is crucial in this  respect. The UNESCO National Commissions are a trump card that is not played often enough. They are of particular  importance in countries without a UNESCO office. Therefore, I would like to see the ties with the National Commissions  being strengthened. The National Commissions also play a key role in Belgium. I am proud to announce that our young  Flemish National Commission will collaborate with those of the Netherlands and Luxembourg to organize the statutory  regional conference of National Commissions for UNESCO of the Europe and North America region in Antwerp in 2008.  As a literal and symbolic foretaste of the Antwerp event, you will find on your desks an Antwerp delicacy called Antwerp  handjes.
4.3 Apart from the “One United Nations” initiative and the visibility of the Organization, I would like to consider some  sector-specific challenges. Attaining the six education for all (EFA) goals is the major global challenge for the education  sector. If we, as the world community, want every Member State to achieve the Millennium Development Goals (MDGs)  by 2015, more efforts will be needed. Focused and coherent actions, concentrating on the least developed countries and  the weakest elements of educational systems, will ensure efficiency and efficacy. The flagship Literacy Initiative for  Empowerment (LIFE), Teacher Training Initiative for Sub-Saharan Africa (TTISSA) and Global Initiative on HIV/AIDS and  Education (EDUCAIDS) are good examples. Belgium supports the continuation of these actions, although more should  be done to make them more visible. Belgium values the importance of the global dimension of education and training,  and therefore particularly welcomes the initiatives taken by UNESCO in the field of international quality assurance. In this  context we have taken the necessary steps towards active implementation of the UNESCO/OECD Guidelines for Quality  Provision in Cross-Border Higher Education by incorporating them into our national quality assurance legislation and  practices. Ensuring the quality of education is a global issue. With UNESCO’s support, all Member States should be  enabled to provide high-quality education at all levels. UNESCO should also assist Member States in establishing the  necessary policy instruments to monitor and regulate education provided by both the public and private sectors, so that it  maintains the standards set by the government.
4.4 The UNESCO World Heritage Centre is faced with a key restructuring process to increase its visibility, to boost  its impact and to enhance its efficiency. In the light of the Centre’s importance, we call for swift implementation of the  recommendations adopted during the last session of the World Heritage Committee in Christchurch, New Zealand. Over  the last decade, UNESCO has received several new tasks and transferred them to the Intergovernmental Oceanographic  Commission (IOC), the United Nations body responsible for promoting cooperation in the study of the seas and oceans.  However, IOC has never received any additional financial or human resources, even though extra funding is required to  carry out these tasks. Therefore, we request that IOC be offered this additional funding within the existing budget of
238  UNESCO. We also value the activities being developed within the Social and Human Sciences Sector concerning  tolerance and peace.
4.5 I would like to emphasize the importance Belgium attaches to following up on the commitments UNESCO has  made in the context of the World Summit on the Information Society (WSIS). Other challenges for the Communication  and Information Sector include narrowing the knowledge gap in terms of communication and information between the  South and North, and supporting independent media and freedom of the press. We would like to stress the commitment  of Belgium in financial terms. Over the years, we have become an important extrabudgetary donor. The Federal  Government and the Flemish Government have set up UNESCO trust funds and the French-speaking community  supports individual projects. Apart from the existing trust funds, I will establish a new general Flemish-UNESCO trust  fund with Mr Matsuura today. As a key extrabudgetary donor we look forward to the way UNESCO’s extrabudgetary  activities can fit into United Nations activities in the field under the “One United Nations” initiative. We are also supporting  UNESCO’s efforts to link extrabudgetary activities to the priorities and activities within the UNESCO regular budget.
4.6 To conclude, I would like to return to the issue of UNESCO’s presence in the field. As you know, UNESCO does  not have a general regional presence in the European countries belonging to Group I. With all due respect, I think I can  say that we do play a key role within UNESCO. The European Commission, too, is a major player. In order to strengthen  the visibility of UNESCO in the European Union and to continue the cooperation between the two, I would like to suggest  that UNESCO have a permanent presence in Brussels. Finally, on behalf of all the authorities in our federal State, I  would like to re-emphasize our faith and confidence in UNESCO. We regard it as a continuing commitment to contribute  to its ongoing mandate, because we are convinced that the Organization’s credo “to construct the defences of peace in  the mind of men” is still as relevant as ever. Thank you for your attention.  (Applause)
(6.1) M. Ibrahim (Soudan) (traduit de l’arabe) :   Au nom de Dieu le Clément, le Miséricordieux, Monsieur le Président de la Conférence générale, Monsieur le  Président du Conseil exécutif, Monsieur le Directeur général de l’Organisation et ses collaborateurs, Mesdames et Messieurs  les ministres et chefs de délégation, Mesdames et Messieurs les délégués permanents et les membres de délégation,  Excellences, que la paix et la miséricorde et la bénédiction de Dieu soient sur vous. Tout d’abord, je tiens à féliciter mon frère  le Président de la Conférence générale pour la confiance que lui ont témoignée les participants à la Conférence, à féliciter  également l’ancien président de la Conférence, le Président du Conseil exécutif et le Directeur général, et à saluer le retour de  Singapour et l’adhésion du Monténégro. Je suis heureux de m’adresser à vous aujourd’hui au nom du Gouvernement et du  peuple soudanais et d’exprimer leur satisfaction, leur confiance et leur gratitude à l’égard de notre noble Organisation  pionnière qui, depuis l’indépendance du Soudan, n’a jamais cessé de lui apporter son aide et son appui dans tous ses  domaines de compétence. Cet appui a été marqué, après la signature de l’Accord de paix global, par la désignation d’un  représentant attitré de l’Organisation résidant au Soudan. Avec l’aide de Dieu, cette décision contribuera concrètement à  l’instauration de la paix, moyennant le renforcement des capacités nationales dans des secteurs tels que l’éducation,  l’enseignement, la culture, les sciences humaines et naturelles, et les sciences de l’information et de la communication, et  favorisera ainsi la mise en œuvre du Plan stratégique quinquennal relatif au Soudan (2007-2011) conformément à la Stratégie  à moyen terme de l’UNESCO (2008-2013). Le renforcement de l’association entre les deux stratégies aidera sûrement à  répondre aux attentes du peuple soudanais concernant la reconstruction, la stabilité et le développement durable. À cette fin, il  faudra adopter un programme spécifique pour le Soudan, le financer au moyen de ressources extrabudgétaires, et le porter à  l’attention des donateurs pour qu’ils s’acquittent des engagements pris précédemment à la Conférence d’Oslo, au lendemain  de la signature de l’Accord de paix. À ce sujet, nous tenons à mentionner avec fierté l’appui et l’attention que l’UNESCO a  accordés à la Conférence de l’Initiative internationale relative à la sédimentation, tenue à Khartoum en novembre 2006.
(6.2) Excellences, nous appuyons résolument le contenu du Projet de programme et de budget, qui a été établi pour  répondre à de formidables attentes aux fins de réalisation des Objectifs du Millénaire pour le développement. Les priorités  sectorielles dans les différents domaines cadrent avec les objectifs prioritaires du Soudan, à savoir combler le fossé dans des  secteurs tels que l’éducation, l’enseignement, les sciences, la recherche, les technologies, la connaissance, le comportement  et l’information, ce qui favorisera la mise en place de compétences élevées pour faire face aux changements sociaux,  culturels, environnementaux et politiques que le pays connaît aujourd’hui. Il faudra donc promouvoir l’intersectorialité, mettre  en lumière le rôle de la femme, revoir les politiques nationales, et renforcer les capacités scientifiques, techniques et de  recherche en vue de faciliter la réalisation des objectifs recherchés sur les plans régional (Nouveau Partenariat pour le  développement de l’Afrique) et international (Objectifs du Millénaire pour le développement).
(6.3) Excellences, l’engagement politique que le gouvernement d’unité nationale a pris de mettre en place les cadres  constitutionnels, juridiques et institutionnels voulus a permis de réaliser des progrès en matière de viabilité environnementale  et de développement durable. Ces progrès sont toutefois en deçà de ce que nous espérions en raison de l’insécurité qui règne  dans certaines régions, de la multiplication des catastrophes naturelles et de la baisse de l’aide au développement. Qui plus  est, le plan de reconstruction et de relèvement est trop ambitieux par rapport aux ressources et aux moyens nationaux  disponibles. Sur le plan de la responsabilité nationale, une fois que le rassemblement sera réalisé dans le Sud, l’Est et l’Ouest  grâce à l’Accord de paix, et avec l’aide de Dieu, que la paix sera instaurée et que les points de vue politiques et sociaux seront  unifiés, nous comptons organiser, en décembre 2007, une conférence nationale sur l’état de l’enseignement à laquelle  participeront tous les groupes, tels que les partis, les organisations de la société civile, les éducateurs, les étudiants et  d’autres, en vue d’élaborer un nouveau plan qui nous permettrait de développer et d’améliorer l’enseignement pour qu’il soit  en phase avec le monde d’aujourd’hui. À cette fin, il est nécessaire de créer, sous la direction de l’UNESCO, un partenariat  mondial qui contribuerait à la réalisation de nos aspirations en matière de paix et de stabilité et qui aurait les objectifs  prioritaires suivants : 1. Moderniser l’enseignement et garantir un accès équitable à l’éducation, tant quantitativement que  qualitativement ; 2. Renforcer les capacités nationales de gestion rationnelle des ressources naturelles et de gestion des  crises et catastrophes ; 3. Revoir les politiques nationales afin de renforcer les capacités dans les domaines des sciences, des  technologies et de la recherche ; 4. Promouvoir la culture de la paix par le développement des divers médias et l’implantation,  dans le pays, des technologies de l’information et des communications pour rester en phase avec la mémoire du monde ;
5. Favoriser la diffusion des principes et normes présidant à l’éthique environnementale, y compris la sécurité biologique ;
6. Développer la recherche dans les secteurs des sciences humaines, sociales, naturelles et culturelles.
(6.4) Excellences, en conclusion, je tiens à réaffirmer l’appui apporté par mon pays à l’initiative que le Directeur général a  annoncée à la 31e session de la Conférence générale concernant un plan global de préservation et de remise en état du  patrimoine culturel de la ville sainte de Jérusalem. Nous saluons les efforts louables qu’il a déployés pour faire appliquer la  résolution 33 C/50 relative à la sauvegarde de la Vieille Ville de Jérusalem. Avant de quitter cette tribune, je vous invite tous à  soutenir les efforts de l’UNESCO visant à élever les défenses de la paix dans l’esprit des hommes par l’éducation, la science,  la culture et la communication. Que la paix et la miséricorde et la bénédiction de Dieu soient sur vous.  (Applaudissements)
7. La Présidente :   Merci, Monsieur le Ministre. Je constate que le délai imparti est de plus en plus respecté. Je donne la parole au  Ministre de la Barbade, Son Excellence Monsieur Anthony Wood.
8.1 Mr Wood (Barbados):   Mr President, as Barbados is taking the floor for the first time in this debate, let me offer our congratulations to  you on your election to this prestigious office. Barbados welcomes Montenegro as a new Member to UNESCO and  congratulates Singapore on its much-anticipated return to this august body.
8.2 Mr President, whereas Barbados commends UNESCO for its efforts in facilitating the achievement of the  education for all (EFA) goals, there continues to be an area of concern for which assistance is required. Barbados has
240  made significant strides with respect to the elimination of gender disparity in primary and secondary school enrolment.  However, Barbados, like its Caribbean neighbours, continues to experience gender disparity in favour of females in two  ways. More females than males enter tertiary level institutions, and in terms of the quality of performance outcomes,  more female than male students leave secondary school with better academic qualifications. There is a dire need for  teacher training in regard to gender equality in schools and classrooms so that neither gender is disadvantaged by  school policies and poor teacher-student relations, as some regional research indicates is the case. Educational  institutions also require assistance in providing compensatory strategies for socially disadvantaged girls and boys.  Another area of importance from a regional perspective is the conducting of a formal literacy survey to provide us with  more realistic figures regarding our literacy situation. At the same time, my government is delighted to acknowledge the  recent launch of the Caribbean Project for Capacity Building for Education Statistics, generously supported by the  Japanese Funds-in-Trust and UNESCO, to be housed at United Nations House in Barbados. This new initiative will go a  long way towards enhancing the ability of educational planners to utilize a wider range of quality data for policy-making  purposes.
8.3 Barbados is pleased with the recognition given to the work of the Intergovernmental Oceanographic Commission  (IOC) as the leading body on oceans and coasts within the United Nations system. The small island States of the  Caribbean have benefited substantially from the programmes executed at the regional level. However, as a long- standing supporter of IOC, Barbados wishes to express its concern that the vital role played by this body in terms of both  ecosystem conservation and management and climate change and disaster mitigation may be jeopardized because of a  consistent reduction in the allocation of funds in recent years. We support the call for further debate on the future of IOC  and wish to reiterate our commitment to its current programming for the improved governance of the fragile coasts and  oceans upon which so many of our island economies are based. Barbados also commends UNESCO on its proposed  water management projects. In this connection, we hope that special consideration will be given in the next biennium to  those small island States that are densely populated, water-scarce, and which have limited national capacity for  consistently effective water resources management.
8.4 Barbados has been an active participant in several environmental conventions under the United Nations, and as  we seek to enhance our participation in the Caribbean region, and by extension, the wider global community, we have  sought to harmonize natural and cultural heritage management and policy arrangements in this regard. The proposed  establishment of our national park system, which accounts for one seventh of our landmass, is a graphic example of this.  Within this defined area, special attention will be paid to the livelihoods of the communities and the unique nature of the  landscape. The area exists today because of our special work in combating land degradation and in the enhancement of  biodiversity.
8.5 Barbados welcomes the adoption in March this year of the Convention on the Protection and Promotion of the  Diversity of Cultural Expressions. This convention is, in its intent, revolutionary. It is a formal acknowledgement of the  fact that cultural products must not be seen as mere commodities as they embody the values, beliefs and the very  meaning of the world’s diverse cultures. For small island developing States (SIDS) like my own, the Convention holds the  key to what could be truly sustainable development. It will facilitate the “management” of our increasingly multicultural  societies through ensuring that there is global accessibility to the wide range of cultural expressions we have to offer. For  there is no doubt that it is exposure to these cultural expressions which will facilitate an understanding of, and respect  for, cultures other than our own. It is also fortuitous that in the very act of disseminating our cultural products, there can  be substantial economic benefits. If Member States adhere to the terms of this convention, particularly the more  developed States, it will allow us to develop to the fullest our cultural and creative industries. This will allow developing  countries to participate fully in this globalized world of free trade and open markets. For while we may never be  competitors in the area of manufacturing, history has shown that because of our incredibly rich and diverse cultures we  can compete, and even have a distinct advantage, in the cultural industries.
8.6 Barbados wholeheartedly subscribes to the view that heritage serves a triple role “as a foundation of identity, a  vector for development and a tool for reconciliation”, as stated in the Draft Programme and Budget for 2008-2009
(34 C/5). My delegation actively endorses the Organization’s renewed commitment to the preservation of the cultural  heritage. We particularly welcome the reinforcement of these activities through the active application of UNESCO’s  standard-setting instruments in this field. Mention must also be made of the improved coordination in various areas in  cooperation with the specialized institutions, namely the International Centre for the Study of the Preservation and  Restoration of Cultural Property (ICCROM) in Rome and the International Council of Museums (ICOM). Barbados views  as critical the mobilization of resources to assist developing countries with the implementation of the international  conventions for the protection of the cultural heritage. In this regard Barbados hopes to establish the necessary  legislative framework to provide the foundation for its response to these conventions by the end of this year. Barbados  values the reinforcement of the World Heritage Committee’s four strategic objectives: credibility, conservation, capacity- building and communication. We endorse the development of regional strategies, especially those actions and strategies  geared towards the needs of SIDS, in particular “building capacities to prevent and mitigate [the] threats and impacts”  inherent in climate change and the natural disasters to which these States are so vulnerable. At the same time,  improving the skills necessary at the community level for “managing sustainable tourism initiatives in cultural and natural  sites” is a vital factor in achieving success in these areas. Barbados has much constructive experience in this regard,  and stands ready to actively participate in addressing these issues and in seeking innovative and supportive strategies  with the UNESCO World Heritage Centre to increase the value of heritage protection at a global level.
8.7 Mr President, Barbados will not be satisfied with mere posturing with respect to the advancement of the Slave  Route project, where serious and concrete action is required to ensure its prominence within the spectrum of UNESCO’s  activities. It is critical to preserving the Organization’s integrity in respect of “breaking the silence” regarding this heinous  event that acknowledgement be given to the bicentenary of the abolition of the transatlantic slave trade in this year of
2007. Colonial patterns of authority, destruction and power, which have so structured our history, must be constructively  utilized as a legitimate foundation upon which to build new national and regional identities within the areas affected.
8.8 Barbados has a history of significant involvement in, and contribution to, the international anti-doping effort. At  present, Barbados represents the Americas region on the Foundation Board of the World Anti-Doping Agency (WADA).  We are also hosts of the Caribbean Regional Anti-Doping Organization (RADO), which provides assistance to
14 Caribbean countries with anti-doping education, testing, training and current issues. Barbados is a signatory to the  International Convention Against Doping in Sport adopted by the UNESCO General Conference in 2005. During the  coming weeks, Barbados expects to enact legislation to enforce the provisions of the convention and the revised World  Anti-Doping Code. Barbados pledges to remain in the vanguard of the movement against doping in sports and for the  promotion of healthy competition in keeping with the true spirit of sports.
8.9 Barbados, along with the other countries in the Caribbean, is committed to the eradication of poverty as one of  the primary development objectives. This is congruent with the Millennium Development Goals (MDGs) approved by all  Caribbean Community (CARICOM) member countries at the Millennium Summit of the United Nations in 2000. Over the  past three decades, CARICOM countries at the national and regional levels have put a great deal of effort into managing  human and social development as an integral part of the development challenges facing SIDS. However, poverty  remains a serious issue for some. Globalization and trade liberalization pose major challenges for the countries of the  Caribbean, and have exacerbated the poverty situation, especially in those dependent on agriculture. Any programme  and projects designed to address this situation must integrate social vulnerability as part of the operational framework.  While economic and environmental vulnerability have been commonplace in the Caribbean, there is uncertainty  concerning the concept of social vulnerability and its relevance to the policy debate. Social vulnerability must therefore  be a critical part of the construct when programmes on social welfare are designed to buffer the effects of unexpected  events.
8.10 Finally, Mr President, UNESCO continues to be well placed to coordinate strategies for the implementation of  programmes and projects at the country level. However, to give UNESCO’s work more of an impact, we are currently  reviewing the institutional arrangements within my ministry. We anticipate that this review will result in more dedicated  treatment being given to UNESCO matters, and in a strengthening of our relationship with UNESCO’s regional offices.  Such efforts will undoubtedly be to the benefit of Barbados as we seek to access further support from UNESCO in its  specialized fields, while at the same preparing us to give reciprocal support to UNESCO’s own restructuring within the  framework of the “One United Nations” initiative. Thank you for your attention.   (Applause)
9. La Présidente :   Merci, Monsieur le Ministre. Je passe maintenant la parole à Monsieur Akis Cleanthous, Ministre de l’éducation  et de la culture de Chypre. Il ne nous reste pas plus de 30 minutes à consacrer à cette matinée. Je voudrais rappeler à  tout le monde que le temps de parole est de huit minutes, et pas plus. Merci.
10.1 Mr Cleanthous (Cyprus):   Mr President of the General Conference, Mr Chairman of the Executive Board, Mr Director-General,  distinguished delegates, I would like to begin my address by congratulating the new President of the General  Conference, Ambassador George Anastassopoulos, on his election. I am confident that under his wise direction the 34th  session of the General Conference will have a successful outcome. I would also like to express my congratulations to Mr  Nicholas Burnett on his recent appointment as UNESCO’s Assistant Director-General for Education, and to wish him all  the best in his new post. I extend a warm welcome to Montenegro on joining, and to Singapore on rejoining, our  Organization.
10.2 Mr President, having crossed the threshold into the new millennium, the modern world is facing numerous  challenges related to human, social, scientific and environmental concerns. The critical issues of sustainable  development and the wise management of the earth’s natural resources, to name but two, are marked out as “high  priority” items on the global agenda. Cyprus has been strongly supporting UNESCO’s initiatives since it became a  Member State in 1961. It has been actively participating in the Organization’s programmes with a strong sense of  commitment and an iron will.
10.3 With reference to education, our government fully agrees with UNESCO’s assertion that education for all (EFA)  is the key to social and economic development. According to the 2007 EFA Global Monitoring Report, Cyprus figures  among the countries that have achieved most of the EFA goals. Nevertheless, we are currently implementing a coherent  and consistent set of reforms embracing every level from pre-primary to higher education. Our objective is to establish an  education system that will provide all the necessary knowledge and skills to tomorrow’s citizens, and which will enable  them to survive and succeed in today’s demanding world. Furthermore, some important steps were taken recently in the  domain of higher education with the establishment of the first private universities in Cyprus and the opening of the  Cyprus University of Technology. These initiatives fall within the government’s goals of improving opportunities for higher  education, both for Cypriots and for overseas students, and making Cyprus a regional centre for academic and scientific  research.
10.4 We consider of particular importance, not only for Cyprus, but also for the entire eastern Mediterranean region  and the Middle East, the establishment of the Cyprus Institute, a technology-oriented, non-governmental, non-profit  research and educational institution. The Cyprus Institute, which has been established by an extraordinarily illustrious  board of international personalities, aspires to address regional problems of global significance. Of particular importance
242  to UNESCO is its Science and Technology in Archaeology Research Centre, launched recently in collaboration with a  leading French institution.
10.5 It is important to mention also the funds-in-trust project on combating poverty through human rights education  co-sponsored by the Governments of Andorra, Cyprus, Luxembourg, Monaco and San Marino. These countries have  joined forces and overcome any differences in internal procedures in a mutual effort to assist Niger within the framework  of UNESCO’s actions in favour of Africa.
10.6 In the field of culture, Cyprus has ratified the Convention on the Protection and Promotion of the Diversity of  Cultural Expressions, and has set up a new strategy aimed at ensuring that the right conditions are present for cultural  diversity to flourish in Cyprus, and at enhancing the status of cultural industries as a significant source of revenue and  jobs. In addition, as Minister of Education and Culture, I strongly believe that respect for cultural diversity, and  consequently, promotion of intercultural dialogue should be established and encouraged, first and foremost among  young people. With this in mind, Cyprus hosted the first UNESCO Euro-Mediterranean Youth Forum on “Young People  and the Dialogue among Civilizations, Cultures, and Peoples: Intercultural and Interfaith Dialogue to Ensure Peace”. The  Forum, which took place in November 2006, brought together young delegates from 34 countries in Europe, Africa and  the Middle East and provided an excellent opportunity for them to exchange ideas, to interact and to recognize and  accept cultural diversity.
10.7 Mr President, our government’s interest and sensitivity on the matter of the preservation of the tangible and  intangible heritage is indeed of the highest order. Cyprus ratified the 2003 Convention for the Safeguarding of the  Intangible Cultural Heritage on 24 February 2006, and has been actively participating in the relevant meetings. The  government is currently working on an inventory of Cyprus’s intangible cultural heritage. Several of its archaeological  sites and monuments are on the World Heritage List, as well as on the European Heritage Label list, and we are  continuously endeavouring to protect and preserve as much as possible of our ancestors’ legacy. We have achieved  high standards in the protection of cultural properties as evidenced in the restoration of the medieval fortifications of  Nicosia and a number of churches, mosques, water mills, olive presses, bridges and houses featuring traditional forms of  architecture. Through the ratification in 1979 of the Convention on the Means of Prohibiting and Preventing the Illicit  Import, Export and Transfer of Ownership of Cultural Property (1970), and the ratification in 2001 of the Second Protocol  to the Hague Convention of 1954 for the Protection of Cultural Property in the Event of Armed Conflict (1999), our  government is trying to regain access to the archaeological sites and monuments that are in the occupied area of  northern Cyprus. Today, due to the military occupation, our government does not have access to these sites and  monuments, leaving them at the mercy of nature’s elements, or worse, at risk of being deliberately destroyed. There are  numerous examples of illegal archaeological excavations and the trafficking of Byzantine icons, mosaics, frescoes and  other priceless antiquities.
10.8 Mr President, our government is committed to a definitive settlement of the Cyprus problem. We are constantly  trying to find a solution, and we hope that through the mutual efforts of both communities on the island we can set an  example of peace and reconciliation in order to build new and harmonious relations. In this regard, UNESCO’s role is of  great importance. Cyprus, already a signatory to the Copenhagen Declaration on Anti-Doping in Sport, is still examining  the text of the International Convention against Doping in Sport in order to ratify it as soon as possible. May I end by  reaffirming my country’s strong commitment to the task of building, along with other Member States, a common  foundation for cooperation, progress and mutual respect. Let us all strive together under the auspices of UNESCO to  pave the way to peace and international security. Thank you.  (Applause)
11. La Présidente :   Je voudrais féliciter le Ministre de Chypre, qui n’a pas attendu la petite musique pour conclure. Je constate en  outre que Chypre a atteint ses objectifs. Il n’en est pas de même pour d’autres pays, surtout le mien. Je passe  maintenant la parole à Monsieur le Ministre de l’éducation, de la science et des sports du Ghana.
12.1 Mr Fobih (Ghana):   Mr President of the General Conference, Mr President of the Executive Board, Mr Director-General,  distinguished delegates, Excellencies, ladies and gentlemen, it gives me great pleasure to have this opportunity to  address this 34th session of the General Conference of UNESCO. I bring you warm greetings from the President of the  Republic of Ghana and Chairperson of the African Union, His Excellency Mr John Agyekum Kufuor, who recalls with fond  memories when this Organization did him the honour of inviting him as the special guest of honour to the 33rd session of  the General Conference. Mr President, Members will recall that Ghana celebrated its 50th anniversary of independence  this year. On behalf of Mr Kufuor, I would like to express our gratitude for the immense support and goodwill  demonstrated by Member States of UNESCO during the anniversary celebrations. Ghana joins other delegates in  congratulating you, Mr President, on your election as the President of the 34th session of the General Conference. We  believe that with your vast experience in international affairs and your deep knowledge of the workings of UNESCO, you  will have a successful tenure of office.
12.2 Mr President, the importance of this session stems from the fact that it marks the end of the last Medium-Term  Strategy and the beginning not only of the next Medium-Term Strategy for 2008-2013 but also of the first biennial  programme and budget of that period. We note with satisfaction the well-couched five overarching objectives that form  the pillars of the Medium-Term Strategy, particularly that of attaining quality education for all (EFA). Mr President, without  an efficient, credible and sustainable education system that recognizes both basic and post-basic education, the  objectives of the human resource development that will make developing countries, particularly those in Africa, more  competitive in today’s globalized economy will remain an illusion. There is no doubt that social and economic
243  development in many of these countries depends mostly on their ability to mobilize, educate and train young people to  face the challenges of this century. For this reason, many governments are reforming their education systems to meet  the emerging challenges. Changing labour markets require better general skills and attitudes. New subjects and new  teaching and learning methods are possible, especially with new information and communication technology (ICT). This  is why education and skills acquisition in lCT-related subjects and improved mathematics and science have become  more and more the focus of educational reforms everywhere.
12.3 Mr President, through UNESCO’s various interventions in EFA initiatives, many countries have doubled their  enrolment and increased access to schools. Notwithstanding which, there are still many children that are excluded from  education. There is the need, therefore, to redouble our efforts and to increase our collaboration with other partners in  order to ensure that the 2015 target is actually met. Mr President, it is our conviction that basic EFA is still indisputably a  priority. Nevertheless, the very fact that it should still be a priority calls strongly for increased attention and greater efforts  with regard to other levels of the education system as part of a comprehensive approach to the development of  education. Mr President, for education to have its desired impact, the role of the teacher cannot be over-emphasized.  Without the teacher’s commitment, dedication and skills, no educational initiative can succeed. This is why we applaud  the Teacher Training Initiative for Sub-Saharan Africa (TTISSA) as a means of addressing the teacher factor. We  therefore call on UNESCO to intensify efforts to strengthen and render more effective this initiative. In recognizing the  centrality of the teacher in educational endeavours, the Government of Ghana has taken measures to address some  concerns by upgrading teacher training colleges to diploma-awarding institutions, providing distance training courses for  non-professional teachers, establishing a national teaching council (NTC) to regulate the profession, and introducing  incentive packages for teachers in rural areas. Other measures for motivating teachers have included best-teacher  award schemes initiated at the district, regional and national levels. For three consecutive years, female teachers have  been at the forefront of award winners at all levels. What is more revealing is the fact that this year, the first runner-up  was a visually impaired lady teacher. This is the result of the government’s efforts over the years to create an even and  fair environment for all to compete in, whether able-bodied or physically challenged.
12.4 Mr President, turning now to the future orientation of UNESCO, we feel very much obliged to make reference to  our 60th anniversary, which was celebrated last year. We must congratulate ourselves for steering the affairs of this  Organization in such a ways as to enable it to chalk up this enviable age of three score years. As we share in the glory of  this achievement, we should be quick to acknowledge the challenge of sustaining the ideals and tenets of our noble  Organization. Mr President, it is certain that the challenges ahead of us are different from the challenges we have  surmounted up to the age of 60. It is important, therefore, to rethink our human resource requirements, particularly the  required mix of skills and competencies, and the adequacy of our systems and strategies to enable us to achieve the  medium-term objectives. In doing this, the continuous creation of opportunities for youth and women is critical, and in this  regard we wish to commend the Director-General for the ongoing efforts to recruit young professionals into the  administrative structure of UNESCO. This, in our view, is not an option but an imperative.
12.5 Finally, Mr President, on behalf of the Government and people of Ghana, permit me to express our sincere  appreciation for the concern expressed by the international community during the disastrous floods that displaced over
75,000 people in the three northern regions of Ghana. We trust that this concern will in the near future be translated into  actual support not only for the comfort of those affected but also, more importantly, for rendering more effective the  poverty alleviation interventions already initiated by both the Government of Ghana and its development partners in  those parts of the country. Mr President, Your Excellencies, thank you for your attention.   (Applause)
13. La Présidente :   Merci, Monsieur le Ministre. Je vous annonce que le Président vient d’arriver et que je vais bientôt lui céder la  place, non sans avoir fait remarquer que l’on avait oublié que je suis une femme. Dans la foulée, je vais annoncer une  autre dame. Il s’agit de Madame Latifa El Abida, Secrétaire d’État chargée de l’enseignement scolaire auprès du Ministre  de l’éducation nationale, de l’enseignement supérieur, de la formation des cadres et de la recherche scientifique du  Maroc.   א ١٤,١  ):א(א א  א א א א א.א א ، א א א ، א א א א א א א ، א א א א ، א א א ، א א א ، א א א א א א א ، א א א א، ، א א א א ، א ،.א א א א، א א א ، א א א /אא א٢٠٠٦٥٠ א א ، א א א א א א א ،  .א א ١٤,٢ א ، ، אא א ، א א א ، א א א ، א א א.א א א/אא א א א א ، ،  .א
(14.1) Mme El Abida (Maroc) (traduit de l’arabe) :   Au nom de Dieu le Clément, le Miséricordieux, que le salut et la paix soient sur le plus noble des Envoyés, Madame la  Présidente, Monsieur le Président de la Conférence générale, Monsieur le Président du Conseil exécutif, Monsieur le  Directeur général de l’UNESCO, Mesdames et Messieurs, je voudrais tout d’abord présenter mes plus sincères félicitations à  Son Excellence Monsieur Georges Anastassopoulos pour la confiance que les représentants des États membres lui ont  exprimée en l’élisant à la présidence de la Conférence générale en raison de ses compétences, de ses connaissances et de  sa flexibilité. Je voudrais également féliciter Singapour et le Monténégro pour leur adhésion à notre Organisation, et remercier  Monsieur Musa bin Jaafar bin Hassan, Président de la précédente session de la Conférence générale, pour les efforts  considérables et louables qu’il a déployés. Je tiens en outre à exprimer mon estime et mes remerciements à Monsieur  Koïchiro Matsuura, Directeur général de l’UNESCO, pour l’action remarquable qu’il mène afin de moderniser le  fonctionnement de notre Organisation, et à le remercier sincèrement de s’être rendu au Maroc en novembre 2006 en vue de  participer aux célébrations du 50e anniversaire de l’adhésion du Royaume du Maroc à l’UNESCO, qui ont coïncidé avec la  célébration de la Journée mondiale de la philosophie à Rabat, la capitale du pays.
(14.2) Mesdames et Messieurs, la présente session a lieu alors que le Royaume du Maroc se trouve dans un contexte  politique particulier. Elle se tient au lendemain de la nomination par S. M. le Roi Mohammed VI (que Dieu lui accorde la  victoire) d’un nouveau gouvernement comptant sept femmes auxquelles ont été confiés d’importants portefeuilles ministériels  étroitement liés aux préoccupations de l’UNESCO. Cette nomination est intervenue à la suite des élections législatives du
7 septembre dernier, qui, d’après tous les observateurs nationaux et internationaux, se sont déroulées dans des conditions  optimales d’intégrité et de transparence.
(14.3) Mesdames et Messieurs, le Maroc a réalisé d’importants acquis grâce aux efforts inlassables qu’il a déployés aux fins  de mise en œuvre des programmes d’Éducation pour tous, comme en témoignent le taux de scolarisation de 94 % dans le  primaire et de 74,5 % dans les cycles secondaire et préparatoire, ainsi que la réduction notable des écarts entre les sexes. Le  Royaume du Maroc a également fait des efforts considérables en matière d’éducation non formelle et d’éducation des adultes,  ce qui a permis de faire baisser sensiblement la proportion d’analphabètes de 43 % en 2004 à 38,5 % à la fin de 2006. Ces
245  efforts ont été reconnus à l’échelle internationale, comme l’atteste le Prix UNESCO-Confucius d’alphabétisation qui a été  décerné au Maroc en 2006. En ce qui concerne l’amélioration de la qualité de l’éducation, le Maroc a engagé une série de  réformes pédagogiques globales tendant essentiellement à moderniser et à améliorer les programmes d’enseignement ainsi  qu’à promouvoir les filières scientifiques et technologiques, notamment par l’intégration des technologies de l’information et de  la communication au moyen d’un projet national visant à généraliser ces technologies dans tous les établissements éducatifs  et universitaires, et en faisant des principes des droits de l’homme, de l’éducation à la citoyenneté et de l’égalité entre les  sexes des composantes essentielles de ces programmes. Pour ce qui est d’aligner les formations sur les exigences du  développement durable et de renforcer le lien entre les établissements éducatifs et universitaires et les besoins économiques  et sociaux renouvelés, le Gouvernement marocain a lancé de nombreuses initiatives nationales, dont la plus importante vise à  accroître le nombre d’ingénieurs et de médecins et à créer de nouvelles possibilités de formation en matière d’ingénierie  sociale en vue de la mise en œuvre des programmes de développement humain. En ce qui concerne la gouvernance, le  Maroc a opté pour une approche démocratique fondée sur le régionalisme et la décentralisation, ainsi que sur la recherche de  consensus pour la gestion de la chose publique et des questions d’éducation, une orientation qui a contribué à renforcer  l’indépendance des universités et des établissements éducatifs. Le Maroc a en outre créé le Conseil supérieur de l’éducation,  une entité constitutionnelle présidée par S. M. le Roi et comprenant une commission nationale chargée de procéder à des  réformes indépendantes des politiques d’éducation. Notre pays a fait de la réforme du système éducatif un sujet qui intéresse  toutes les composantes de la société, ce qui a permis au secteur de l’éducation et de la formation de tirer parti de nombreux  partenariats locaux, nationaux, régionaux et internationaux. L’Initiative nationale pour le développement humain, qui a été  lancée par S. M. le Roi en 2005 et qui s’appuie sur une approche participative de la lutte contre la pauvreté et la  démarginalisation, est venue appuyer l’action menée pour améliorer la qualité de l’éducation.
(14.4) Mesdames et Messieurs, j’aimerais saisir cette occasion pour saluer les formidables efforts que notre Organisation  déploie afin de sauvegarder le patrimoine mondial de la ville sainte de Jérusalem et de garantir l’accès à l’éducation à tous les  enfants des territoires arabes occupés, et j’invite la communauté internationale à faire montre d’une plus grande solidarité  avec le peuple palestinien pour qu’il récupère ses territoires occupés et réalise ses objectifs nationaux légitimes, ce qui  permettrait de préserver le droit à l’éducation de tous les enfants de Palestine, du Liban et d’Iraq.
(14.5) Mesdames et Messieurs, le Maroc appuie le projet de budget de l’UNESCO et soutient les efforts visant à assurer la  mise en œuvre décentralisée des programmes de l'Organisation. Il appuie également la Stratégie à moyen terme pour 2008-
2013 car les orientations qui y sont définies peuvent contribuer à la réalisation des objectifs de l'Organisation, dans l’intérêt  des États membres.
(14.6) Mesdames et Messieurs, permettez-moi de remercier le Directeur général et les membres de l’ISESCO pour le  soutien qu’ils apportent à la candidature de la ville de Tanger, la ville de la coexistence humaine, de la diversité patrimoniale et  du pluralisme culturel, afin qu’elle accueille l’Exposition universelle de 2012, et j’invite les pays frères et amis à soutenir cette  candidature pour appuyer les activités de développement au Maroc.
(14.7) Mesdames et Messieurs, le Royaume du Maroc, qui a adhéré à l’UNESCO dès son accession à l’indépendance en
1956, est foncièrement attaché aux valeurs et principes fondateurs de notre Organisation, et s’efforce d’affermir la culture des  droits de l’homme et la culture de l’ouverture, de la tolérance et de la solidarité entre les individus, entre les groupes et entre  les peuples. Le Maroc a pris de nombreuses initiatives pour préserver l’environnement et l’eau et lutter contre la désertification,  et il participe à tous les programmes visant à réaliser les Objectifs du Millénaire pour le développement  et les objectifs de  l’Éducation pour tous, en les suivant de près. Le Maroc est sur le point de ratifier la Convention sur la protection et la  promotion de la diversité des expressions culturelles et il est un membre actif du programme de l’Alliance des civilisations.  Nous poursuivrons nos efforts afin de participer de manière constructive à tous les programmes de l’UNESCO. Nous  remercions notre Organisation ainsi que ceux qui s’emploient à la gérer pour les efforts inlassables qu’ils déploient pour venir  en aide aux États membres. Que Dieu nous accorde réussite à tous, dans l’intérêt de nos peuples et de l’humanité tout entière.  Que la paix et la miséricorde et la bénédiction de Dieu soient sur vous.  (Applaudissements)  M. Anastassopoulos prend la présidence.
15. Le Président :   Merci beaucoup, Madame la Secrétaire d’État, pour le discours que vous avez développé ici. J’appelle  maintenant Son Excellence Monsieur Jypar Jeksheev, Secrétaire général de la Commission nationale du Kirghizistan  pour l’UNESCO. Monsieur Jeksheev.
(16.1) M. Jeksheev (Kirghizistan) (traduit du russe) :   Monsieur le Président, permettez-moi tout d'abord de joindre ma voix à tous ceux qui vous ont exprimé leurs  félicitations à l'occasion de votre élection à la présidence de la 34e session de la Conférence générale de l'UNESCO, et, au  nom de la délégation kirghize, de vous adresser sincèrement tous mes vœux de succès dans l'accomplissement de votre  noble mission.
(16.2) Mesdames et Messieurs, la disparition des particularités et de la culture nationales ainsi que des racines historiques  détruit les fondements moraux et ruine l'harmonie intérieure de l'homme du XXIe siècle, privant celui-ci de ses principes  spirituels et le transformant en un consommateur matérialiste irresponsable. La coopération internationale dans le domaine de
247  l'éducation, de la science et de la culture contribue précisément à consolider la paix et à favoriser la compréhension et le  respect mutuels, établissant les bases créatrices du développement de la civilisation. Nous avons tout particulièrement besoin  à cet égard d'une UNESCO efficace, mobile et dynamique ; c'est pourquoi nous apprécions et soutenons sans réserve les  efforts de réforme entrepris par le Directeur général, M. Koïchiro Matsuura, pour permettre à l'Organisation de relever les défis  d'aujourd'hui.
(16.3) Le Kirghizistan a bénéficié dès son admission à l'UNESCO de l'attention et du soutien de l'Organisation dans les  domaines culturel et humanitaire. Grâce à l'UNESCO, la fameuse épopée kirghize Manas, dont le millénaire a été célébré  avec faste en 1995, a largement dépassé les frontières du Kirghizistan, étonnant le monde en tant qu'exemple supérieur de  patrimoine spirituel de l'humanité. Nous n'avons pas perdu de temps. Au cours des quinze dernières années, des dizaines de  projets ont été menés à bien dans notre pays sous l'égide de l'UNESCO ; nous sommes particulièrement fiers, notamment, du  projet mis en œuvre avec le Japon pour protéger les villages médiévaux dans la vallée du Chouïsk, du projet en faveur de  l'éducation des enfants en détresse ainsi que de la conférence internationale organisée à Issyk Kul sur le thème : « L'Eurasie  du XXIe siècle - Dialogue entre les cultures ou conflit de civilisations ? ». Dans le cadre du Programme sur l'homme et la  biosphère, le site légendaire d'Issyk Kul et celui de Sary-Chelek, qui n'a rien à envier au premier sur le plan de la beauté,  constituent des réserves de biosphère de l'UNESCO. Le Kirghizistan, qui a fait du tourisme une branche prioritaire de son  économie, met tout en œuvre pour développer ce secteur, notamment le tourisme écologique, afin, avec l'aide de l'UNESCO,  de permettre aux touristes du monde entier d'avoir accès à ses richesses naturelles. L'art unique des conteurs épiques  kirghizes, les akyns, est reconnu par tous comme un élément du patrimoine culturel universel. Nous sommes fiers de l'école  des akyns, qui a contribué à empêcher la disparition de ce type de création populaire et suscité un grand intérêt parmi notre  jeunesse.
(16.4) Grâce à l'UNESCO, nous avons aussi beaucoup fait pour favoriser le dialogue entre les civilisations et les cultures. Le  succès de la conférence que nous avons organisée en 2004 en est une preuve éclatante. La compréhension de notre passé  est devenue un élément important du processus de développement de notre culture contemporaine. Nous accordons la  priorité aux recherches sur le nomadisme et saluons l'activité menée par les deux instituts de l'UNESCO que sont l'Institut  international d'études des civilisations nomades d'Oulan-Bator et l'Institut international d'études sur l'Asie centrale de  Samarkand.
(16.5) Mesdames et Messieurs, nous avons beaucoup fait en peu de temps. Mais il nous reste davantage encore à  accomplir. L'initiative en faveur de l'inscription collective de la Route de la soie sur la Liste du Patrimoine mondial de  l'UNESCO est un projet très ambitieux. La réalisation de cette initiative transnationale marque une nouvelle étape dans la  protection du patrimoine historique et naturel, donnant à ce processus un caractère d'internationalisme et d'étroite coopération.  Nous considérons dans le même esprit les travaux actifs menés en faveur de la candidature de la montagne sacrée de  Sulaiman-Too, pilier historique et symbole de notre caractère national.
(16.6) L'eau est la source de la vie en Asie centrale. Nous avons l'intention de renforcer l'action régionale visant à assurer  une réglementation dans ce domaine et, avant tout, à garantir à la population l'accès à l'eau. À cet égard, nous nous félicitons  des initiatives menées par l'UNESCO dans le cadre du Programme hydrologique international, concrétisées par des projets  comme L'hydrologie au service de l'environnement de la vie et de la formulation des politiques et le projet asiatique G-WADI.
(16.7) Les nouvelles donnes de la mondialisation ont fait des processus migratoires un véritable phénomène social. Au  Kirghizistan, nous nous intéressons beaucoup à l'étude de ces processus nouveaux pour nous, en étroite coopération avec  nos partenaires internationaux. Je voudrais à cet égard inviter l'UNESCO à accorder davantage d'attention aux questions  migratoires, qui sont la cause de nombreux problèmes sociaux actuels. La création d'un centre de l'UNESCO pour l'étude des  problèmes migratoires pourrait contribuer utilement à la recherche de solutions pour l'avenir.
(16.8) Mesdames et Messieurs, je ne doute pas que tous ceux qui sont ici présents ainsi que tous les pays qui ont fondé leur  croissance nationale sur les Objectifs du Millénaire pour le développement s'efforcent de favoriser la paix sociale et de  garantir l'égalité sociale. Cela fait des millénaires que l'humanité aspire à la justice sociale, mais si l'on veut édifier un ordre  mondial à dimension sociale il faut renforcer les mécanismes d'application des décisions adoptées au plus haut niveau. Il faut  un mécanisme qui prévoie à la fois un suivi des efforts collectifs et des paramètres de progrès dans le cadre d'une réalisation  optimale des Objectifs du Millénaire pour le développement. L'initiative du Président de la République kirghize concernant la  proclamation du 20 février Journée mondiale de la justice sociale est appelée à jouer un rôle de coordination. Nous invitons  tous les pays membres de l'UNESCO à se joindre à nous pour appuyer la résolution correspondante de l'Assemblée générale  des Nations Unies.
(16.9) Le Kirghizistan est par ailleurs favorable à l'idée d'organiser en 2009 à Bichkek, sous l'égide de l'UNESCO, le  deuxième Sommet mondial de la montagne. Le premier Sommet mondial de la montagne, qui a eu lieu à Bichkek en 2002, a  mis en lumière les différents problèmes posés par le développement des régions montagneuses et indiqué des moyens de les  résoudre. Nous espérons que le deuxième Sommet sera aussi constructif et bénéfique pour la dynamique et le  développement des régions montagneuses. Nous voudrions à cette occasion inviter d'ores et déjà le Directeur général et tous  les pays membres de l'UNESCO à participer aux travaux de ce Sommet. Comme vous le voyez, les montagnes sont tout pour  nous : elles sont source à la fois de vie, de richesse et d'inspiration. Mais jamais auparavant le Kirghizistan n'avait célébré la  montagne comme il l'a fait en 2006 en attribuant le nom de l'UNESCO à l'un de ses plus hauts sommets. Le pic enneigé  UNESCO se trouve dans les massifs de Sary-Djaz, au sud du grand lac Issyk Kul. Le Kirghizistan entend œuvrer à la création  d'une réserve de biosphère particulière autour du pic UNESCO. Nous avons foi dans les capacités et dans l'avenir de  l'Organisation tout comme nous croyons en la stabilité et la solidité du mont UNESCO qui s'élève dans les chaînes kirghizes  de l'Ala-Too.
(16.10) Mesdames et Messieurs, permettez-moi, en conclusion, de former le vœu que les travaux de la 34e session de la  Conférence générale de l'UNESCO soient couronnés de succès. Je vous remercie de votre attention.
17. The President:   Many thanks, Mr Jeksheev. I would like now to invite His Eminence Monsignor Francesco Follo, Observateur  permanent du Saint-Siège auprès de l’UNESCO, à prendre la parole. Monseigneur.
18.1 Monseigneur Follo (Saint-Siège) :   Monsieur le Président, je m’associe, bien volontiers, aux orateurs qui m’ont précédé pour exprimer les  félicitations de la délégation du Saint-Siège pour votre élection à la Présidence de la Conférence générale de l’UNESCO,  tâche que vous accomplirez sans aucun doute de manière fort excellente.
18.2 Parmi les questions qui retiennent l’attention de notre Organisation, il y a celle de l’éducation, que le Saint-Siège  suit toujours avec un grand intérêt, créant et accompagnant dans différents pays des projets éducatifs. Plus que jamais,  en effet, il nous faut faire de la formation et de l’éducation des jeunes et des adultes l’une des priorités de la  communauté internationale. En effet, c’est l’un des aspects essentiels du développement des personnes et des peuples  ainsi que de la promotion de la culture et de l’établissement de la paix.
18.3 Nous devons soutenir les projets tels que ceux énoncés, par exemple, dans le Cadre d’action de Dakar en
2000, malgré les difficultés qui peuvent se présenter. Dans cet esprit, le continent africain doit être une priorité. Plus  l’éducation sera favorisée, plus les cultures locales seront promues, plus les personnes accéderont au bien-être, plus  cela profitera à la vie sociale et économique des peuples. Il nous faut reconnaître que rien ne changera vraiment dans  notre monde tant que tous ses habitants n’auront pas accès à un système éducatif de qualité. Le Saint-Siège ne peut  donc qu’encourager toutes les initiatives en ce sens, en prenant soin de la formation non seulement intellectuelle, mais  aussi de la formation humaine, morale et individuelle.
18.4 Je voudrais souligner, dans le bref délai dont je dispose, le fait que nous soutenons l’égalité des sexes dans le  domaine de l’éducation, égalité qui doit être promue dans tous les projets. Nous savons la place toujours plus importante  que la femme est appelée à tenir dans la vie sociale et économique de toutes les sociétés, mais il importe aussi de  promouvoir l’éducation en s’appuyant sur la famille, cellule de base de la société, et sur les parents, à qui il revient de  droit d’être les premiers éducateurs de leurs enfants.
18.5 En ce qui concerne la protection et la promotion des cultures, nous connaissons toute l’importance des religions  et des croyances, qui font partie des domaines essentiels de la vie de tout homme et de toute société. Dans notre  monde post-moderne où les religions et les idéologies sont aussi à l’origine d’affrontements sanglants entre personnes,  entre peuples, parfois au sein même des différentes cultures, il importe d’examiner comment il est possible de faire en  sorte que la démarche religieuse soit vraiment intégrée dans la vie des personnes et des peuples, ainsi que dans la vie  de la cité. Je voudrais ajouter que dans le monde actuel, un monde de plus en plus urbain, avec le développement des  grandes mégapoles qui sont des lieux riches de culture et de civilisation mais où se développent aussi des phénomènes  de violence et d’incivilité, la proposition du Brésil d’organiser une conférence sur le développement des villes est  particulièrement bienvenue. Il faut créer dans les villes des lieux de culture, de relation, d’éducation, pour que les  hommes se parlent, échangent, se reconnaissent comme frères et comme partenaires de la construction sociale, et  soient attentifs aux plus petits et aux plus pauvres.
18.6 Comment ne pas évoquer la question du développement durable et des programmes en faveur des énergies  renouvelables, telle la proposition faite pour l’Asie centrale par le Kazakhstan ?
18.7 Enfin, je voudrais conclure en rappelant que Jean-Paul II avait suggéré, il y a 25 ans, à l’UNESCO, qu’il n’y a  pas de vie vraie sans la culture. Je le redis : il n’y a pas de vie vraie pour la planète sans la culture. Merci de votre  attention.   (Applaudissements)
19. Le Président :   Je voudrais vous remercier, Monseigneur, pour les remarques que vous avez formulées, et vous assurer que  nous prenons bonne note de cette dernière remarque, que nous pourrions étudier. Je voudrais maintenant vous  annoncer qu’étant donné que M. Fred Van Leeuwen, qui était supposé prendre la parole en dernier, a été retenu dans  les embouteillages – cela arrive quelquefois à Paris – nous entendrons Monsieur Gaston de la Haye, son adjoint. Je le  prie de prendre la parole. Monsieur Gaston de la Haye.
20. Mr de la Haye (Education International):   Mr President, delegates and guests, let me join the previous speakers in congratulating you on your election as  President of this noble assembly. Let me come right to the point. Education International (EI), speaking for more than 30  million educators around the world, is concerned that this body is moving away from what we believe should be its prime  concern today: to help find the 18 million young people needed in the coming eight years to become qualified teachers  able to ensure quality education for all children. Yet large numbers of teachers are leaving the profession, sometimes  after only a few years of service. Why? Dissatisfaction with the low salaries, poor teaching and learning conditions, no  career prospects and inadequate professional training; these are all factors. Plus we must replace the many experienced  teachers who will retire soon. And on top of that, the HIV/AIDS pandemic is hitting the profession very hard. We agree  that the plans laid down in document 34 C/5 are important. But collecting data, undertaking studies, and convening  conferences on the management of education will not overcome the looming shortage of qualified teachers. Frankly, too  little attention is given to those who are expected to play the key role in education: the educators. On 5 October 2007, we  signed a joint message with you, UNESCO, the International Labour Organization (ILO), UNICEF, and the United  Nations Development Programme (UNDP), here in this building, reaffirming that teachers are the most crucial factors in  the achievement of the education for all (EFA) goals and the Millennium Development Goals (MDGs). This message  should be better reflected in the programme; action is required now. At its third congress three months ago, EI decided to  assist our national education unions to become actively involved in teacher education, in initial as well as in-service  training, in setting professional standards, and in the development of quality training programmes. We will aim to reach  talented young people in the low-income countries, as well as the so-called volunteers and para-professionals who have  been hired in recent years. We will develop a programme to promote quality public education, building on a partnership
249  between education unions, NGOs and governments. Could I remind us all that guidance on key policies for effective  teachers and teaching is provided in the joint ILO-UNESCO Recommendation concerning the Status of Teachers of
1996, and in the 1997 UNESCO Recommendation concerning Higher Education Teaching Personnel. Both  recommendations continue to be ignored by many Member States. This must change. Today, higher education is an  agenda-topping topic for many international organizations. Reforms are being rolled out and compounding insecurity for  academic personnel. Politically, today’s budgets for education are too limited, although we have important declarations  that education is very important. Also, in the Ministerial Round Table on Education and Economic Development, the topic  of those 18 million teachers that we will be missing in the eight years to come has not been addressed; we hope that this  will change. Today, Mr President, political courage is needed, not declarations. Thank you for your attention.  (Applause)
22. The President:   I must now ask colleagues to agree to us suspending the meeting for 20 minutes in order to give us a chance to  welcome the two high officials who are going to address us in a few minutes, His Excellency Mr Jakaya Mrisho Kikwete,  President of the United Republic of Tanzania, and His Excellency Mr Branko Crvenkovski, President of the former  Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia. We shall resume our meeting in around 20 minutes, and I would like you to be so kind,  as usual, as to attend. Thank you very much.  The meeting is suspended for 30 minutes to allow the President of the General Conference,  the Chairperson of the Executive Board and the Director-General to welcome  the President of the United Republic of Tanzania   and the President of the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia.  H. E. Mr Jakaya Mrisho Kikwete, President of the United Republic of Tanzania,   and H. E. Mr Branko Crvenkovski, President of the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia,  enter Room I and are escorted to their places.
23.1 The President:   Let us resume our meeting. We are very happy indeed to welcome here, within the context of a long-standing  UNESCO tradition, Heads of State who come to give us their ideas about the way this Organization should work and  what it should be doing in the future, ideas that we value as much as their presence. Today, we have two Heads of State  who will address us, one after the other, and I will now make some opening remarks before they speak in order not to  waste their time and yours.
23.2 Mr Chairman of the Executive Board, Mr Director-General, distinguished ministers, ladies and gentlemen, dear  colleagues, on behalf of the Member States of UNESCO it is a great honour for me today to welcome you to UNESCO  House. For the past week, over 3,500 delegates from around the world have gathered here to discuss our most pressing  challenges, and to agree on the best way to address them. As the work is ongoing, we particularly wish to thank you for  attending these proceedings at this juncture, when we can most benefit from your youth and experience. Mr President of  the United Republic of Tanzania, today we should take this opportunity to pay tribute to your country for its 45 years of  membership, and its long history of fruitful collaboration with UNESCO. Since joining UNESCO in 1962, the United  Republic of Tanzania has embraced Organization’s programme as its own, developing a broad range of activities in  various domains such as the integrated management and conservation of biosphere reserves, the promotion of quality  education and education sector reform, and the ethical use of information and communication technologies (ICTs). A  faithful friend, the United Republic of Tanzania is also a devoted champion of UNESCO’s ideals within the region,  throughout Africa and around the world. In this regard, we commend you for initiating the resolution proclaiming the year
2008 as the International Year of Planet Earth, and now for taking the lead to engage the entire Africa region in its  celebration. Your leadership is precious to us, and can be further acclaimed as the United Republic of Tanzania is one of  the eight pilot countries that have agreed to test the new working methods for the United Nations “Delivering as One”  initiative. Hand-in-hand with the UNESCO Office in Dar es Salaam and our United Nations colleagues, you are making
250  great strides to improve the effectiveness of the United Nations system’s response to country needs. My compliments to  you, Sir, for your personal support in this process.
23.3 Mr President of the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, our second guest of honour today, has, for many  years now, also demonstrated a remarkable degree of activity, being positively involved in many south-east European  initiatives that every day help strengthen our bonds of friendship. To name but two particularly meaningful examples of  these, I would like to remind our distinguished assembly that the very first regional summit of south-east European  political leaders, co-organized by UNESCO and partner countries under the umbrella of the dialogue among civilizations  and cultures, was held in the spiritual city of Ohrid in August 2003, and brought together eight Heads of State of the  region; and the seventh regional summit of Heads of State, on the subject of intercultural exchanges on sea, river and  lake routes in South-East Europe, will be hosted by Greece and held in Athens in 2008. Collaboration between UNESCO  and your country does not, Mr President, stop here. Whether it is through the promotion of scientific research in the area  of water resource management or the development of educational applications of ICTs, your country demonstrates a  distinct willingness to nurture, with UNESCO and within the region, a culture of dialogue through intellectual exchange  and cooperation. I wish to salute these efforts, and to express my personal conviction that it is through these and similar  initiatives that we are effectively bridging differences and valuing our common interests and aspirations; and that we are  building a brighter future for ourselves, our children and our grandchildren.
23.4 On these last words of introduction, I have the pleasure to ask our distinguished guests to take the floor. First it  will be President Kikwete of the United Republic of Tanzania, followed by President Crvenkovski of the former Yugoslav  Republic of Macedonia. On behalf of my colleagues here before you, and those listening in on the Internet, I wish to  express my warmest thanks to both of you, Your Excellencies, for the words that you are going to share with us.  Mr President of the United Republic of Tanzania, please.   (Applause)
24.1 Mr Kikwete (President of the United Republic of Tanzania):   Mr President of the 34th session of the General Conference of UNESCO, Mr Chairman of the Executive Board,  Mr Director-General, honourable ministers, distinguished delegates, Excellencies, ladies and gentlemen, permit me, first  of all, to express my profound gratitude to you for inviting me here today. I feel greatly honoured and privileged to have  this opportunity to address this session of the General Conference of UNESCO. I bring with me my personal best wishes  as well as the fraternal greetings from the Government and the people of the United Republic of Tanzania, wishing  success to this Conference. We promise our utmost cooperation and proactive engagement and participation. I would  like to take this opportunity also to thank the Director-General for his kind invitation and for the warmth of his reception  and hospitality. Allow me also to join those who preceded me at this session of the General Conference in extending a  very warm welcome to the newest members of UNESCO, namely Montenegro and Singapore. We believe that UNESCO  has grown richer with Montenegro’s accession and Singapore’s return to the forum.
24.2 Mr President, the 34th session of the General Conference of UNESCO is taking place at a time when the United  Nations reform process is under way. For sure, the reforms will have a profound impact on and implications for  UNESCO’s work, including the manner in which it will be conducting business with its Member States. The United  Republic of Tanzania has supported the reform process geared to making the United Nations more efficient, more  effective, more responsive, and more representative of Member States’ diverse views and levels of economic strength.  Relevant to the work of UNESCO is the idea that the United Nations, in the operations of its agencies and funds, should  “Deliver as One”. My government took an early decision to be one of the first pilot countries where the One United  Nations approach is being tested. I am glad to inform you that the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP)  country representative and United Nations Resident Coordinator in the United Republic of Tanzania has already taken  charge of the leadership of all United Nations agencies operating in the country. This includes the UNESCO Cluster  Office in Dar es Salaam, which has already moved closer to the UNDP offices with effect from 9 July 2007. Our main  prayer, which is also the wish of other United Nations Member States, is to see this reform result in better coordination  and harmonization of the United Nations work, with a focus on better results among the United Nations agencies.
24.3 Mr President, I am also aware of the ongoing reforms within UNESCO, and I congratulate the Director-General  and his staff on their initiative and their efforts in driving these reforms. I wish them well in dealing with the challenges  that lie ahead. As we all know, reform is essentially a journey and not a destination. It is a means to an end and not an  end in itself. The ongoing UNESCO reform is a process of continuous improvement, seeking perfection as we move  forward. The United Republic of Tanzania will support the Director-General and the United Nations staff as they continue  that journey of looking for efficient and effective ways of doing things. Mr President, 61 years have now passed since the  founding fathers laid the first foundation stone that created the UNESCO that we know today. The main mission of  UNESCO – that of building in the minds of men and women the defences of peace in the transition from a culture of war  – is as valid today as it was 61 years ago. It is heart-warming indeed to note that over the years, UNESCO has  discharged its mandate with great successes despite the numerous obstacles encountered on the way. There are still  many challenges ahead of us, but I am confident that with the ongoing reforms and continued support from the Member  States and the United Nations, UNESCO will no doubt rise to the challenge and score even greater successes now and  in the future.
24.4 Mr President, we in the United Republic of Tanzania cherish the good relations we have enjoyed with UNESCO  since joining the Organization on 6 March 1962, barely three months after our independence. Throughout that time,  UNESCO’s support has been instrumental in building the capacity of Tanzanians through education, science, culture and  information. We will always remain grateful for UNESCO’s contribution to the development process of our country. We
251  reaffirm our dedication to work towards the realization of the objectives of UNESCO in the United Republic of Tanzania  and globally.
24.5 Mr President, it is indisputable that education is the key to the empowerment of people and to the development  of nations and societies. It takes an educated people to promote fast growth and the development of a society and a  nation. An uneducated population can be a clog in the wheel of a country’s development. It is with this in mind that the  Government of the United Republic of Tanzania has always taken the development of education very seriously. Year  after year it has increased budgetary allocations, and this year’s budgetary allocations to education have reached a  record high. We intend to keep it that way for the foreseeable future. This commitment in turn makes the United Republic  of Tanzania fully determined to meeting the Millennium Development Goals (MDGs). We have in the last seven years  managed to score encouraging results in meeting both the MDG of achieving universal primary education and the goal of  education for all (EFA). Primary school enrolment now stands at 97%, with gender equity strictly observed under the  primary school education programme. We would like to thank UNESCO profoundly for supporting our efforts through,  among others, Teacher Training Initiative for Sub-Saharan Africa (TTISSA). For all that, we will face formidable  challenges in achieving the necessary quality of education in primary schools due to a lack of teachers, a shortage of  housing for teachers, and a shortage of text books, teaching aids and equipment. The list of challenges is long.  Therefore, Mr President, we still need UNESCO’s support and look forward to working with this Organization to  overcome these challenges.
24.6 In the area of secondary education, we have also had major achievements. Enrolment in secondary schools  increased from 345,441 in 2003 to 1,020,510 this year. In the past two years, the United Republic of Tanzania has  witnessed a phenomenal expansion in secondary school education. Through special efforts involving community  participation, 1,094 secondary schools were built, and school intake increased from 140,000 in 2005 to 468,000 this  year. This huge expansion, though very welcome, has created its own challenges. Indeed, many challenges remain.  These include the demand for more teachers, particularly science teachers. We need, for example, to increase the  number of secondary teachers by at least 40%. There is demand for more classroom space and an even bigger demand  for science laboratories and housing for teachers. The shortage of science teachers, science laboratories and laboratory  equipment in schools weighs heavily against the advancement of science education in the country. As is the case with  primary education, these are the challenges that we hope we can cooperate and work with UNESCO to overcome.
24.7 With expansion and improvement in secondary school education there is increasing demand for higher  education. The government has responded to this demand by expanding enrolment in its existing universities and other  institutions of tertiary education. Besides that, a new university has been established in the new capital of the country:  the University of Dodoma. The United Republic of Tanzania has, over the past decades, witnessed an increasing interest  from the private sector to establish universities. In fact, the government has been encouraging it. This welcome  development was received so warmly by the government that doors were opened and 21 private universities have been  established as a result. Though small in size, they have contributed significantly to the expanding opportunities for higher  education for the United Republic of Tanzania’s young men and women. In all our education development efforts, due  regard is being given to science education. This emphasis seeks to build a scientific base for the country, which is  certainly a prerequisite for economic growth and development. This is also in line with the decision on science and  technology taken by the African Union Heads of State and Government at their annual summit in Addis Ababa in January  this year. We are very grateful for UNESCO’s support in developing a national science and technology policy that chimes  well with the changed times and circumstances. I would also like to express my very sincere appreciation and thanks for  the key role that UNESCO has played in the establishment of Zanzibar State University and the invaluable support  extended to the Open University of Tanzania in the area of capacity-building. We look forward to continued cooperation  as we continue to expand in tertiary education. The Organization has established two UNESCO Chairs at Zanzibar State  University and the Open University of Tanzania. We look forward to it doing the same with the new University of  Dodoma.
24.8 Mr President, UNESCO has also been very supportive in the area of culture. We welcome and appreciate its  cooperation in this regard. UNESCO’s support for the project tracing the Slave Route from the Great Lakes to Zanzibar,  which seeks to document and preserve the history and important relics of the East African slave trade, is highly  appreciated. This is a slave route that is not as well known as that of the West African slave trade, but it has been quite  remarkable. It is a sad and shameful chapter in our history, but it is a fact. We cannot pretend otherwise. We have to  document and preserve this history. In fact, it is long overdue. It should have been done many years back.
24.9 Another project I would like to mention, expressing my very sincere appreciation for UNESCO’s support, is that  of documenting the history of the liberation struggle on the continent. I hope you all know that I am talking about the  Roads to Independence: the African Liberation Heritage project, which was endorsed by the General Conference at its
33rd session. I am so happy that this important epoch in the history of our dear continent is going to be recorded and  preserved. It is unfortunate that in Africa people do not have the habit of keeping diaries, and worse still, we do not write  books about ourselves and about important events. So the history of the liberation struggles in the continent is in danger  of being lost. Many of those involved did not write about it and many have died. Where is Eduardo Mondlane? Where are  Samora Machel, Chris Hanny, Julius Nyerere, Augustine Onetto, Jtepo and Oliver Tambo? All these father figures of the  liberation struggles are gone. There are a few left, and we must rush to collect the information they remember before  they, too, shut their eyes and depart. I am glad that we have this project in place. Let us move with speed, especially in  collecting the oral history from the actors who are still with us.
24.10 Mr President, allow me also to express the United Republic of Tanzania’s appreciation for UNESCO’s  cooperation in the area of safeguarding the cultural and natural heritage sites. UNESCO has been doing a commendable  job in this regard, and the United Republic of Tanzania has benefited from it. There are seven cultural heritage sites in
252  the country. Currently, there are less than 50 recognized cultural and natural heritage sites in Africa. But there are 800  sites worldwide. So for Africa only to have less than 50 is a bit on the low side. It is our sincere belief that Africa has more  cultural and natural sites to preserve, which would benefit humankind if preserved. Might I use this opportunity to appeal  to UNESCO to be more proactive on the African continent so that more sites can be identified and added to the list of the  cultural and natural heritage sites for the sake of humanity? Maybe the rules of engagement and procedures could be  revisited and their limitations removed so that the process can be expedited. As you will be aware, Mr President, Africa  has established its own fund to support the safeguarding of cultural and natural heritage sites on the continent. I would  like to reaffirm the United Republic of Tanzania’s support for the decision and its commitment to contribute to this fund  during the next financial year. We are currently waiting for the necessary arrangements.
24.11 Mr President, it would be remiss of me not to mention UNESCO’s decision to designate the year 2008 as  International Year of Planet Earth. This landmark decision has come at the right time. Needless to say, the preservation  of our dear continent is an urgent matter. The Earth, which represents the highest expression of our common humanity,  is in serious danger of environmental degradation. The bad side of human activity has had a negative impact on the  earth’s climate. Temperatures are rising to dangerous proportions. Glaciers are melting and being lost at an accelerating  pace. Climate patterns have changed, with too much rain in some parts of the world, while others face droughts that are  too severe and too frequent. Food security has become a major problem in the world today. It is critical, therefore, that  humanity take time to reflect on how to save Planet Earth from the potential disaster that it seems to be heading towards.  We are grateful to UNESCO for this pertinent decision. More importantly, Mr President, we would like to express our  profound gratitude to UNESCO for having chosen the United Republic of Tanzania for launching the International Year of  Planet Earth on the African continent. We feel greatly honoured and privileged. We assure you of our full cooperation in  ensuring the success of this important event. Let me use this opportunity to welcome you all to join us in the United  Republic of Tanzania on this auspicious occasion. We will work closely with all participating countries, as well as with the  other stakeholders, to see to it that this important initiative attains its goals.
24.12 In conclusion, Mr President, I would like, once again, to thank you for the opportunity to address this august  assembly. I take this opportunity to reaffirm the United Republic of Tanzania’s commitment to, and support for, the ideals  for which UNESCO was created, the ideals that UNESCO has been pursuing and which it stands for. We pledge all the  cooperation necessary to ensure that it succeeds in its endeavours. UNESCO has indeed been a great organization to  justify the words of George Shuster, who in 1963 said that “UNESCO would have to be created, if it did not exist”. Over  the last six decades, this Organization has stood and fought gallantly in support of humankind, and without a doubt it has  justified its existence. Let us all join hands for UNESCO to succeed. I thank you.  (Applause)
25. The President:   Many thanks indeed. President Crvenkovski.
26.1 M. Crvenkovski (Président de l’ex-République yougoslave de Macédoine)  (discours prononcé en macédonien ; texte français fourni par la délégation) :   Monsieur le Directeur général, Monsieur le Président de la Conférence générale, Excellences, délégués,  Mesdames et Messieurs, permettez-moi de vous dire l’honneur et le plaisir qui sont les miens de m’adresser à la  Conférence générale de l’UNESCO pour la première fois dans l’histoire de mon pays.
26.2 L’UNESCO est certainement l’une des organisations internationales les plus importantes au service de la  coopération entre les États dans un domaine primordial : l’investissement dans les facultés humaines. L’éducation, la  science, le patrimoine culturel, que les générations précédentes nous ont laissés, sont des savoirs indispensables pour  le développement futur, maintenant et toujours.
26.3 Petit pays européen, la République de Macédoine est d’autant plus consciente de l’importance et des succès de  l’Organisation des Nations Unies depuis sa création, que cette année elle lui apporte une contribution particulière en  assurant la présidence de l’Assemblée générale des Nations Unies. Soucieux de nos responsabilités concernant les  enjeux globaux, nous mettons l’accent pendant cette année de présidence de l’Assemblée générale sur le plus important  d’entre eux, à savoir le développement durable et les changements climatiques, qui sont également traités, mais de  manière spécifique, au sein de l’UNESCO.
26.4 La Conférence générale doit accorder un soutien sans réserve à la politique et aux principaux objectifs de  l’Organisation. Á cet égard, je souhaite féliciter le Directeur général pour ses efforts visant à la moderniser et à en  accroître le rayonnement qui donneront les meilleurs résultats. Les contributions des pays membres de l’UNESCO,  Organisation des Nations Unies chargée de l’éducation, de la science et de la culture, doivent être axées sur la  réalisation des Objectifs du Millénaire pour le développement et entraîner une amélioration du niveau de vie grâce aux  connaissances spécifiques et à l’éducation des peuples, de façon à répondre aux besoins modernes de la civilisation.
26.5 Mesdames et Messieurs, l’une des principales conclusions de la dernière Conférence générale concernant les  objectifs de l’UNESCO, dans la foulée du Forum mondial sur l’éducation qui s’est tenu à Dakar en 2000, était la  nécessité d’apprendre. Au début du millénaire, un objectif essentiel a été défini et un message principal adressé à  l’humanité : l’éducation pour tous avant 2015. La tâche principale de l’UNESCO est de créer les conditions pour que  chaque homme, chaque femme, chaque enfant dans le monde, apprenne à lire et à écrire. Ce qui est aussi important  que l’accès à l’eau potable, une vie paisible sans crainte pour sa sécurité et, d’une manière générale, le droit de chacun  de vivre dignement sa vie.
26.6 Chaque pays membre de l’UNESCO a élaboré son propre plan de développement de l’éducation et s’est  engagé à mettre en œuvre cet objectif essentiel. Aujourd’hui, il est clair qu’il n’y a pas de message plus important que le  message suivant : l’éducation pour tous. Cette exigence requiert de chaque membre de l’Organisation de l’initiative, un  fort engagement, une volonté politique et une coopération assidue. C’est au prix de tous ces efforts et du travail acharné  des pays membres que l’objectif fixé sera atteint : l’éducation pour tous avant 2015. C’est un objectif primordial pour tous  et surtout pour les pays en développement qui s’efforcent de ne pas se laisser distancer par l’évolution du monde. Voilà  pourquoi l’UNESCO doit continuer à soutenir plus particulièrement les pays qui ont le plus besoin de son aide en ces  temps de changement et de développement rapide. La stratégie de l’Éducation pour tous consiste à établir un lien direct  et fort entre les pays en développement et les pays développés pour que le programme atteigne les résultats attendus.
26.7 En République de Macédoine, l’enseignement primaire et secondaire sont une obligation pour chaque membre  de notre communauté. À travers cet accès à l’éducation et aux formations professionnelles, la République de Macédoine  se rapproche des normes éducatives des pays développés. Une des principales réussites de l’UNESCO est de  rassembler des États ayant une expérience riche et diverse, ainsi qu’un patrimoine culturel varié. Le respect mutuel de  nos différences est depuis toujours une des plus grandes qualités de l’UNESCO. En apprenant de nos diversités et en  coopérant pour une reconnaissance culturelle mutuelle, nous définissons ensemble des projets communs et des  activités concrètes. C’est la raison pour laquelle la Macédoine, dans le cadre de l’UNESCO, a organisé des forums de  dialogue entre les civilisations. J’estime que cette série de rencontres consacrées au dialogue entre les civilisations  constitue un exemple de communication entre États d’origines et de cultures diverses. Nos initiatives, qui sont  concentrées au niveau régional, se sont révélées fructueuses.
26.8 Je souhaite également exprimer notre respect et notre reconnaissance pour le travail du Bureau de l’UNESCO à  Venise – Bureau régional de l’UNESCO pour la science et la culture en Europe, dont la contribution à la mise en valeur  des richesses culturelles de la région est d’une importance exceptionnelle. Je souhaite également remercier le Directeur  général de l’UNESCO, M. Matsuura, ainsi que la République italienne, pour son action décisive, notamment dans le  cadre très efficace du Bureau régional. Un des résultats de cette coopération sera la création d’un centre de  numérisation du patrimoine culturel de l’Europe du Sud-Est, qui sera inauguré avant la fin de l’année. Ce centre sera une  étape cruciale du processus permettant de rapprocher l’histoire et la culture et les impératifs modernes, au nombre  desquels figurent désormais la numérisation et la société de l’information. Mon pays a accepté de répondre à l’appel des  Nations Unies pour remédier à nos carences en matière de numérisation et préparer notre entrée sur la scène régionale  des technologies de l’information et de la communication. Nous sommes convaincus que l’introduction de ce nouvel  élément dans le système éducatif de la République de Macédoine contribuera à accélérer le progrès économique et  social du pays. Je suis persuadé que cette approche peut nous aider à mieux trouver notre place dans la concurrence  économique mondiale.
26.9 Mesdames et Messieurs, la région d’où je viens, par sa position géographique, est l’une des plus riches en  matière de patrimoine culturel mondial. De multiples témoignages matériels et culturels attestent la présence au cours  des siècles de plusieurs civilisations. L’UNESCO a recensé sur notre territoire Ohrid, habitée depuis la plus lointaine  antiquité, comme un lieu privilégié de notre culture européenne. Cette région figure sur la première Liste du patrimoine  mondial. À travers les siècles, la beauté d’un des lacs les plus profonds d’Europe a inspiré beaucoup de peintres  talentueux, de fresques et d’icônes, ainsi qu’un grand nombre de vieux maîtres et architectes et de hauts dignitaires  religieux réunis dans le cadre de l’ancienne Université d’Ohrid. Je suis convaincu que ce lieu, riche de traditions  culturelles et spirituelles, continuera à nous inspirer dans la recherche de la paix et d’une coopération durable.
26.10 Mesdames et Messieurs, Ohrid a été reconnue par l’UNESCO non seulement pour sa richesse culturelle, mais  surtout parce qu’elle constitue le centre historique de l’alphabétisation et de l’éducation de l’Europe de l’Est et des  Balkans. C’est pour cette double raison que nous proposons une initiative dans le domaine de l’éducation et de la  recherche concernant les ressources en eau.
26.11 L’eau est un des éléments vitaux que nous partageons tous. Nous partageons l’eau avec le monde vivant et non  vivant de la planète, mais nous ne la partageons pas avec les autres corps cosmiques. L’eau est, en effet, un don  providentiel dont seule jouit la Terre, notre planète. C’est pourquoi elle occupe une place à part sur la liste des priorités  de notre Organisation. Partout dans le monde, les problèmes de l’eau sont différents : utilisation abusive des eaux de  surface, dégradation de leur qualité, destruction du milieu liquide. Chaque année, la nature nous rappelle, par de  grandes catastrophes naturelles, que la mauvaise gestion de l’eau peut provoquer des désastres, ainsi qu’en témoignent  la Bible et les autres textes fondateurs. Les concepts de pérennité et de développement sont le fondement des vraies  solutions. C’est pourquoi il est primordial de sensibiliser chacun à l’usage et au partage de l’eau. Les importantes  réserves d’eau dont dispose la République de Macédoine, et l’enjeu que constituent l’accès à l’eau potable et son  renouvellement, nous ont décidés à lancer une initiative qui sera présentée avant la prochaine Conférence générale.  Nous proposons de créer un centre UNESCO de catégorie II pour l’éducation et la recherche sur les ressources en eau.
26.12 Chers délégués, l’UNESCO est une organisation dédiée à l’éducation, à la science et à la culture, et le principal  message de ses fondateurs figure dans son nom même. Nous devons tous apprendre pour mieux comprendre notre  diversité et pour partager nos valeurs et expériences culturelles, pour améliorer les conditions de vie. J’attends des  participants à cette 34e session de la Conférence générale de l’UNESCO qu’ils apportent leur propre contribution pour  renforcer l’espoir de chaque habitant de la planète de devenir l’acteur de son propre avenir. Nous n’avons pas d’autre  choix que de coopérer étroitement, ensemble, pour atteindre les idéaux de l’Organisation. C’est notre obligation et notre  devoir. Mon pays est déterminé à accomplir des efforts et à prêter son concours pour que ces idéaux deviennent notre  réalité. Je vous remercie de votre attention.
27. Le Président :   C’est à nous de vous remercier chaleureusement ainsi que, de nouveau, le Président de la République-Unie de  Tanzanie, pour votre présence et pour les conseils que vous avez eu l’occasion de nous adresser. J’espère que nous en  tiendrons bien compte. Je voudrais maintenant demander que l’on ajourne la séance jusqu’à cet après-midi, 15 heures,  en souhaitant à tous un bon appétit.  The meeting rose at 12.45 p.m.  La séance est levée à 12 h 45  Se levanta la sesión a las 12.45  Заседание закрывается в 12.45  א א١٢,٤٥א   会议于 12 时 45 分结束