1. The President:   We are ready to start our meeting this morning. Your Excellencies, ministers, heads of delegation, ladies and  gentlemen, good morning. You will recall that the new President said “Forgive me in advance if I pronounce your name  or your country incorrectly”. I must say the same – if I mispronounce your name or your country it is unintentional. It is  just that I come from a very small town in Kenya – a very small village, so we sometimes have pronunciation problems. I  now declare open the ninth plenary meeting and I call upon the first speaker in the general policy debate this morning,  His Excellency Mr Thiện Nhân Nguyễn, Deputy Prime Minister, Minister of Education and Training of Viet Nam.  Welcome.
2.1 Mr Thiện Nhân Nguyễn (Viet Nam):   Madam President of the General Conference, Mr Director-General, Excellencies, ladies and gentlemen, it is a  great honour for me to join this forum, the 34th session of the General Conference. We would like to welcome the return  of Singapore and congratulate the Republic of Montenegro for becoming a new Member of UNESCO. On behalf of the  Vietnamese delegation, I would like to congratulate the President, on his election to the presidency of the General  Conference and we would like to commend the Director General, Mr Koïchiro Matsuura, and his Secretariat on their  tremendous efforts over the past seven years in making UNESCO’s voice one of those that counts and is listened to in  the world.
2.2 Since 1999, UNESCO has embarked on a thorough – sometimes painful – but successful reform under the  guidance of the General Conference, the Executive Board and the active role of the Director-General. The achievements  recorded in the reform process have been undeniable. UNESCO became more effective and transparent where personal  and collective responsibility has been revitalized with stronger conviction. Now it is time for UNESCO to play a more  active role in the “One United Nations” initiative. In this reform, we play an active role as voluntarily being one of the eight  “Delivering as One” pilots. The implementation of “Delivering as One” in Viet Nam showed that it helped avoid having to  comply with several different project management regulations, while the constructive pressure of all donors on us  remains high and consistent. We are thus forced to be more efficient and timely. We also undertake in our shared efforts  to successfully develop the five “Ones” (One Plan, One Budget, One Leader, One Set of Management Practices, and  One United Nations House) at the country level.
2.3 Viet Nam highly values the cooperation with UNESCO in developing the cross-cutting theme project “Biosphere  Reserves Network in Viet Nam: Learning Laboratory of Education for Sustainable Development”. The Vietnamese  Government will be strongly committed to and pursue this plan.
2.4 Ladies and gentlemen, we attach great importance to the principle of equity in geographical representation and  rotation for the election of members to the executive bodies of the Convention for the Safeguarding of the Intangible  Heritage and the Convention on the Protection and Promotion of the Diversity of Cultural Expressions. We believe that it  is high time for us to create a fairer playground for other countries in the World Heritage Committee so as to achieve  greater universality and balance in the World Heritage List. In this regard, I highly appreciated the efforts made by  UNESCO for Viet Nam on the protection and preservation of the tangible and intangible heritage. Taking this opportunity,  I would like to inform the General Conference about the celebration in 2010 of the 1,000th anniversary of the foundation  of Hanoi. This event will represent and consolidate the efforts of close cooperation and assistance from UNESCO to Viet  Nam in preservation and protection of Thang Long Imperial Citadel, with a view to its future inscription as a World  Heritage site.
2.5 Madam President, in order to reach the six Dakar goals for education for all (EFA), the Government of Viet Nam  has approved the EFA National Action Plan (2003-2012), with a view to consolidating achievements in literacy and the  universalization of free primary education, as well as to attaining the universalization of lower secondary education and  kindergarten for all children of age 5 by 2010. Another key measure to implement the EFA National Action Plan is to set  up a nationwide network of community learning centres as effective means of supporting lifelong education and equality  of access to it. So far, there are 7,000 community learning centres operating in 7,000 out of 11,000 villages in Viet Nam.
2.6 With regard to the United Nations Decade of Education for Sustainable Development (2005-2014) (DESD), I  would like to state from this solemn podium that the Government of Viet Nam is strongly committed to implementing all  its contents. Along with the setting-up of its National Committee for the United Nations Decade of Education for  Sustainable Development, we are implementing a four-pillar model for education for sustainable development: (1) value- based education (respect for culture, values); (2) involvement of the community in education; (3) application of ICT as a  low-cost solution; (4) demand-driven education (responding to the needs of business and society). In order to develop  the national policy on education and allocate the government budget to local governments efficiently, we plan to establish  and apply national education indicators referring to UNESCO DESD indicators.
2.7 Ladies and gentlemen, we highly appreciate the active participation of UNESCO in establishing a global early  warning system to detect tsunamis and UNESCO’s activities on ethics in science. From this podium, I sincerely call for  the full implementation of UNESCO’s ethics in science declarations in all countries to ensure a brighter future for human  society.
2.8 Viet Nam also strongly supports efforts to develop a code of ethics for the information society. In this line, I am  very glad to announce at this forum that, in cooperation with UNESCO, the first Asia-Pacific Regional Conference on  Ethical Dimensions of the Information Society will be held in Viet Nam from 16 to 18 January 2008, and that the code of  ethics for the information society constitutes one of its main themes.
2.9 Ladies and gentlemen, the achievements recorded and the popular reputation retained by UNESCO over the  past six decades has laid a firm foundation for an ever better future. The reform efforts that the Director-General and his  Secretariat have conducted since 1999 offer us more ground for confidence in that future. With that conviction in mind, I  would like to join you all in expressing best wishes for the common house of UNESCO that gains new momentum  everyday in serving a world of peace, justice, democracy and prosperity. Thank you for your attention.  (Applause)
3. The President:   Thank you, Excellency. Thank you very much. Our next speaker is His Excellency Mr Abdul Rahman, Minister of  Education of Brunei Darussalam. Welcome.
4.1 Mr Abdul Rahman (Brunei Darussalam):   Bismillāh ir-rahmān ir-rahīm (In the name of God, the Merciful, the Compassionate). As-salāmu ‘alaikum wa- rahmatu llāhi wa-barakātuh (Peace and the mercy and blessings of God be upon you). Your Excellency, Madam  President, Excellencies, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to join others before me in congratulating the President of this  Conference on his election as President of the 34th session of the General Conference, thanking his predecessor, His  Excellency Dr Musa bin Jaafar bin Hassan for his stewardship in steering the successful 33rd session of the General  Conference, and also welcoming Singapore and Montenegro on becoming our newest Members. It is a pleasure to join  you for the second time in a General Conference since Brunei became the 191st Member of the global Organization in  March 2005. I am pleased to report that in the two years since I was here, we have carried out a number of major  activities as part of a broad response to UNESCO’s core business. I am please pleased to say that the Brunei National  Commission for UNESCO was launched on 28 May 2007, and we have met twice to discuss our plan and activities for  the future.
4.2 In education, we implemented a national action plan to comply with the Dakar Framework for Action and Jomtien  Declaration on Education for All, including the implementation of our inclusive education policy and ICT strategy in  education. We are making efforts towards building a knowledge society, an effort that UNESCO has been encouraging  all countries to comply with, through quality education and a renewal of education systems. We are now engaged in the  important process of transforming our education system, including the higher education sector, precisely to meet this  requirement. We have endeavoured to improve the quality of education with the following initiatives. We are reviewing  our national education system, and working towards implementing a new system by 2009. This system will be broad- based, provide multi-pathways for our children to further and higher education, and should enable all learners to reach  their full potential with skills to survive in a fast-changing world. We are reviewing major policies so that we can provide  all children with greater access to our education system irrespective of gender, race or socio-economic status. We have  built and will continue to build more primary, secondary and vocational schools. We have introduced free compulsory  education of nine years for all children in government schools within an inclusive education system. This includes  assistance for children from lower-income families. However, the majority of our children are given the opportunity to  complete at least 12 years of education. We have established a second university to broaden access for students to  higher education. We now have better provision for greater numbers of in-service training and retraining to improve the  quality of our workforce. Finally, we are continuously improving the quality of our teachers and school leaders through  various training programmes, including better remuneration and a scheme of service for teachers.
4.3 In the science sector, we will work with our national partners regarding policy-making processes, and develop  strategies in our new education system for an effective science education which includes the development of  understanding among our young people of the impact of human activities on their environment and sustainable  development, water interactions, systems at risk, and social changes and ecological sciences. We hope, by working with  governmental and non-governmental organizations at the national and international levels, and with better coordination  of joint activities as a result of having a National Commission, we will be able to come up with effective strategies on  environmental protection, sustainable development, cooperation in earth sciences, and natural hazards reduction. But  what is more important, however, is to bring our citizens at all levels of society to participate in and have a passion for the  sustainability of our natural environment for future generations.
4.4 In other fields, we have worked and will continue to work with our national partners, UNESCO and other regional  bodies, in carrying out activities focused on the cultural heritage, the protection of cultural diversity, and the promotion of  dialogue between cultures and civilizations, by meeting new demands in the area of standard-setting, as well as  safeguarding and revitalizing our tangible and intangible cultural heritage.
4.5 Communication and information have become major issues for most of the peoples and nations of our planet,  not only as they affect development and peace, but also as they contribute to the construction of a more just society with  stronger ties of solidarity. Emphasis is put on promoting equitable access to information and knowledge, especially in the  public domain by: (i) formulating principles, policies and strategies to widen access to information and knowledge; and (ii)  developing an infrastructure and building capacities for increased participation in the knowledge society. These also  support Brunei’s obligation towards fulfilling the United Nations Millennium Development Goals (MDGs), to which Brunei  is a signatory. We are indeed proud of our achievement, and in a 2004 United Nations Development Programme (UNDP)  report my country was placed 33rd out of 177 nations in the UNDP’s Human Development Index.
4.6 Excellencies, ladies and gentlemen, we will, however, not rest, but continue to work harder in order to improve  on that placing, and to better meet the targets of the MDGs in the areas of education, health, social and economic  development, poverty reduction and the environment. In trying to reach a higher goal, we will indeed need to work closely  with UNESCO, other agencies and organizations which have greater resources and experience.
4.7 Excellencies, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to end by wishing all of you every success in your deliberations  at this Conference. Thank you, Madam President.  (Applause)
5. The President:   Thank you Your Excellency, Mr Rahman. Our next speaker is Her Excellency Ms Þorgerður Katrín  Gunnarsdóttir, Minister of Education, Science and Culture of Iceland. Welcome.
6.1 Ms Gunnarsdóttir (Iceland):   Madam President of the General Conference, Chair of the Executive Board, Director-General, Your Excellencies,  ladies and gentlemen, it is a great pleasure for me to attend the General Conference of UNESCO for the first time and to  address the distinguished representatives of the Member States of this Organization. We welcome Montenegro and  Singapore to UNESCO.
6.2 In our times of globalization, societies are undergoing deep changes in most fields. Interactions between nations  increase and different cultures meet. conflicts of interest might arise and cause tension between groups or nations, and  we face global problems which can only be solved through broad cooperation. We therefore urgently need an  international body such as UNESCO, which has the professional authority and the moral engagement to tackle the  issues at stake within the United Nations family. Therefore it is crucial for the United Nations Educational, Scientific and  Cultural Organization to avoid stagnation and to stay vibrant and relevant. The United Nations reform process – the One  United Nations approach – will hopefully diminish overlap and avoid duplication in the work of the different agencies and  ensure effectiveness and system-wide coherence.
6.3 Globalization and technological innovation deeply influence education and science; they permeate all sectors of  our social life, and constitute the driving force of economic growth. While the pace of innovation is surprising, the impact  of education on economic growth is no news to Icelanders. Only a century ago, infrastructure in Iceland was conspicuous  by its almost total absence: there were no roads, no ports, no bridges. There was, however, one important exception to  this widespread absence of infrastructure: basic education was strong, and had been so for centuries. This was the basis  that has made it possible for Iceland to rank among the wealthiest of modern nations in less than a century. Investment  in education, research and innovation has gradually increased, and is today considered to be the very basis of Iceland’s  future prosperity.
6.4 Education is the priority of priorities, at the local as well as the global level. It is therefore of great concern to me  as Minister of Education how far we still are from reaching the Dakar goals and the Millennium Developments Goals in  education. Too many girls are still without access to education and the eradication of illiteracy is still a remote goal.  Education is a human right and nobody should be deprived of this fundamental right.
6.5 As globalization and technological innovation influence education and science they have no less an impact on  cultural diversity. In our globalized world, cultural diversity is one of our most precious riches, and we must always be  alert to the freedom of expression which is the cornerstone of our democratic societies. Language lies at the heart of  cultural diversity, being one of the strongest components of cultural identity, and the most forceful vehicle of the world’s  intangible heritage. UNESCO has a manifold role to play in this field. One is the safeguarding of linguistic heritage.  Another pivotal role of UNESCO is the promotion of linguistic diversity and multilingualism in education. The  strengthening of the children’s mother tongue at school, as well as fostering of learning of several languages from the  earliest age, should be the leading thread in education. By all means we must struggle to promote linguistic diversity on  the Internet. Iceland welcomes the efforts UNESCO will make under the intersectoral programme for languages, and  urges the Organization to take a leading role in this field in the years to come.
6.6 Water scarcity, floods and water-related hazards and the sensitivity of the water cycle to global and regional  climate change are issues of high priority for many of the organizations in the United Nations family. Water is essential  for life, the environment and the economic well-being of nations, and water plays a fundamental role in any policy on  sustainable development. Iceland has considerable renewable energy sources, including hydropower and geothermal  energy. We strongly believe that research and capacity-building in science and technology for sustainable development  and research into future energy sources contributes to sound management of natural resources. Here UNESCO has an  important role to play as well.
6.7 We would like to emphasize that ethical norms must be a common denominator for all scientific and  technological disciplines. The activity of the World Commission on the Ethics of Scientific Knowledge and Technology  (COMEST) should therefore be enhanced.
6.8 Ladies and gentlemen, to conclude, Iceland has been and is still firmly committed to playing an active role in all  major United Nations bodies, and has therefore decided to be, for the first time, a candidate for a seat on the Security  Council for the period 2009-2010, and we are supported actively in these matters by other Nordic States. As a Nordic  country, we remain true to our long tradition of active commitment to the United Nations, to the Nordic reputation of being  bridge-builders and trusted mediators in complex situations, and if elected, we hope to serve the best interests of all.  Thank you for your attention.  (Applause)
7. The President:   Thank you Your Excellency, the Minister of Education, Science and Culture of Iceland. Our next speaker is His  Excellency Mr Andrew Holness, Minister of Education of Jamaica. Welcome.
8.1 Mr Holness (Jamaica):   Madam President, Director-General, distinguished delegates, ladies and gentlemen, having only recently  assumed office as Minister of Education, I am pleased to address the 34th session of the General Conference of  UNESCO. Jamaica will shortly mark the 45th anniversary of its membership of UNESCO. That commemorative event will  provide an opportunity not only to reflect on the achievements over the years, but also to reiterate our intent to effectively  play our role as a Member State of UNESCO. In addition, Jamaica pledges its continued support for the reforms being  pursued by the Director-General and to add greater value to the outcomes of the work of UNESCO.
8.2 Jamaica has warmly received Dr Kwame Boafo, the new resident Director of the Cluster Office for the  Caribbean. My teams look forward to increased collaboration with that office as we undertake the implementation of the  Programme and Budget for the 2008-2009 period. In addition, we remain committed to the early establishment of a  United Nations Headquarters House and the accommodation of the UNESCO Office for the Caribbean in that facility.  You are aware, Madam President, that Jamaica is seeking to resume its membership of the Executive Board, in addition  to serving on three other subsidiary bodies. Within the framework of those entities, we shall seek to ensure the effective  implementation of the proposed Medium-Term Strategy.
8.3 I wish to stress, however, Madam President, that if the Caribbean region is to fulfil its respective national and  regional mandates, it is essential that funding for the Fellowships and Participation Programmes be maintained at current  levels. I am pleased, Madam President, that the activities that Jamaica has undertaken since the last session of the  General Conference have demonstrated our full support for UNESCO’s values and ideals. We have ratified the  Convention against Discrimination in Education, and the government is currently reviewing the education system. That  process will focus on several of the priority issues comprising the UNESCO Draft Programme and Budget. These include  an increased focus on early childhood education, ensuring quality universal access and equity in education, combating  violence in schools, improving the management and administration of the education system through decentralization and  a results-based approach to policy implementation, and of course gender issues, particular the problem of male  underachievement. This is a phenomenon that is a growing concern and challenge in societies throughout the Caribbean  region and the Caribbean Community (CARICOM) countries have agreed that this is an issue in which we should  specifically welcome UNESCO’s expertise. I am confident, Madam President that once we have clearly identified the  appropriate path towards education for sustainable development, UNESCO will have a significant role to play in assisting  us in achieving these objectives.
8.4 Jamaica was pleased to have been selected as one of six pilot countries to establish national bioethics  committees. The national committee will work actively with the Bioethics Society of the English-Speaking Caribbean,  which was recently established to ensure that bioethics is given increased attention in the subregion. It is with this in  mind, Madam President, that we submitted our candidature to the Intergovernmental Bioethics Committee. Further  efforts are being taken to implement programmes on renewable energy, climate change and science education in  schools.
8.5 Madam President, Jamaica attaches great significance to the biosphere, and therefore regrets that in spite of the  natural beauty of the Caribbean, no site in the subregion has hitherto been conferred with recognition in the World  Network of Biosphere Reserves. Steps are therefore being taken at the regional level towards the early nomination of an  appropriate site for such recognition. Our participation in the first Conference of Parties to the Convention on the  Protection and Promotion of the Diversity of Cultural Expressions held earlier this year, was of particular significance, as  Jamaica was among the first group of countries to have ratified the Convention.
8.6 In the context of its rich and diverse cultural heritage, Jamaica is also seeking to have the Blue Mountains  National Park inscribed on UNESCO’s World Heritage List. In an effort to increase the number of World Heritage sites in  the region, CARICOM countries have agreed to take steps towards establishing a regional heritage fund.
8.7 Madam President, this year marks the 200th anniversary of the abolition of the transatlantic slave trade. I wish to  commend UNESCO on its support for the various commemorative activities undertaken, and in particular UNESCO’s  Slave Route project, which over the last 13 years has sought to break the silence surrounding the slave trade and  slavery. We thank those Member States that have contributed to the fund to erect a permanent memorial at United  Nations Headquarters in honour of the victims of slavery and the slave trade. We also look forward to further tangible  support from UNESCO towards the erection of this memorial.
8.8 Madam President, one of the issues with which we continue to grapple globally is the issue of doping in sports.  As one of the leading nations in the field of athletics, Jamaica has accorded the highest priority to this issue. We are  among the first countries to ratify the International Convention against Doping in Sport. In order to ensure that our  obligations under the Convention are fully met, we have now established an Inter-Ministerial Taskforce against Doping in  Sport, and draft legislation is now in place for the establishment of a national anti-doping commission. In a further effort in  preserving the integrity of sports through combating doping, Jamaica is undertaking a continuous outreach and education  programme, particularly among youth, having regard to the health consequences of doping and to the responsibility of all  persons and associated personnel to demonstrate the highest level of integrity and fair play in sports.
8.9 In closing, Madam President, I wish to reiterate Jamaica’s unstinting commitment to partner UNESCO and  Member States in promoting sustained social and economic development through all meaningful educational, scientific  and cultural initiatives. Thank you.
9. The President:   Thank you, Honourable Minister of Education from Jamaica. Our next speaker is His Excellency Dr Chan Nyein,  Minister of Education of Myanmar. Welcome.
10.1 Dr Nyein (Myanmar):   Madam President, honourable Ministers, distinguished delegates. On behalf of the Myanmar delegation, I would  like to extend the warmest greetings and congratulations to the President on his election as the President of the 34th  session of the General Conference of UNESCO. It is our firm belief that the Conference will be successful under his very  able leadership and guidance. I would like to offer my congratulations to the new UNESCO Member, Montenegro, and to  Singapore for rejoining UNESCO.
10.2 Madam President, Myanmar views education as a basic human need and an integral part of the quality of life, a  support for moral and social values, and assurance for economic productivity. The education sector is receiving greater  attention in Myanmar than ever before. At the same time, the education sector also faces unprecedented challenges in  preparing our young people to realize their fullest potential by providing them with relevant knowledge and skills. In  addition, education plays a crucial role in imparting knowledge on health matters, providing ways of coping with natural  disasters and the preservation of the environment, preparing them to live together in peace, tolerance and as members  of the world community. At the basic education level, in line with the Dakar Framework for Action on Education for All  (EFA) and the Millennium Development Goals, the Myanmar EFA National Action Plan was prepared by professionals of  various ministries in consultation with the United Nations system and international and national NGOs. The Myanmar  Education for All Plan comprises four goal areas, six goals and six strategies which are in line with the global goals and  Millennium Development Goals. Myanmar national EFA goals are achieved by adopting the following six strategies:  strategy 1: developing and expanding child-friendly schools; strategy 2: making basic education more accessible to  children; strategy 3: increasing retention and completion rate; strategy 4: assisting children to develop their fullest  potential; strategy 5: enhancing literacy and continuing education through non-formal education; and, finally, strategy 6:  modernizing education management and information system. Based on these strategies, Myanmar is making every effort  to ensure the provision of accessible quality education. These include the availability of the qualified teachers, upgrading  curricula and syllabuses in line with modern development, greater use of ICT and modern teaching aids, teaching of  morals, ethics and maintaining gender parity in education.
10.3 The first Myanmar EFA goal is to achieve free compulsory basic education by 2015. It will be achieved by  opening more basic education schools and upgrading existing schools throughout the country, especially in border and  remote areas. Now there are more than 40,000 primary schools in Myanmar. That means, schooling facilities within the  easy reach of all school-age children. The enrolment rate is promoted by holding school enrolment week before the  beginning of each school academic year with the participation of the stakeholders. The national school enrolment rate for  school-age children stood at 97.84% in 2006. Myanmar’s EFA goal 2 is improving all aspects of the quality of basic  education, that is teachers, education personnel and curricula. In order to realize this goal, primary and secondary  curricula have been revised and updated with the introduction of life skills, teaching/learning materials, multimedia and  other facilities, and assessment procedures have been augmented for quality improvement.
10.4 Myanmar EFA goal 3 will be achieved by the significant improvement in the levels of functional literacy and  continuing education by 2015. The community learning centres and several village libraries act as venues for basic adult  literacy programmes, post-literacy programmes, income-generating programmes, quality of life improvement  programmes and non-formal primary education programmes. The integration of literacy programmes with income- generation programmes is a very promising development. Due to the concerted efforts made, the adult literacy rate in  Myanmar increased from 91% in 2000 to 94.35% in 2006. Myanmar EFA goal 4: ensuring learning needs of the young  people and adults through non-formal education, life skills and preventive programmes is being implemented through  voluntary programmes for orphans and adults at voluntary night schools and non-formal primary education. Myanmar  EFA goal 5: expanding and improving comprehensive early childhood education is being achieved by opening more  preschools and initiating such measures as increasing the number of preschoolers, upgrading teacher quality, and  developing the pre-primary curriculum and teachers’ manuals and guidelines.
10.5 With regard to gender, Myanmar society has never experienced gender disparities, and women have equal  rights with men. Overall, the national education situation is favourable to girls. No gender disparity exists in the Myanmar  education system. The EFA national plan of Myanmar establishes the basis for ensuring that Myanmar meets its  commitment concerning the education-related aspects of the Millennium Development Declaration goals.
10.6 Madam President, at the same time, the 30-year long-term national education development plan has been  implemented since 2001. The plan consists of six five-year plans focusing on the promotion of access, quality, diversity  and educational management. The plan harnesses both formal education and non-formal education in the promotion of  quality education. Madam President, distinguished delegates, to ensure that opportunities for higher education are  available in all regions of the nation, the number of institutions was increased from 32 in 1998 to 156 at present.
10.7 Madam President, distinguished delegates, in conclusion, I would like to say that the implementation of long-  and short-term national education plans, augmented by the National EFA Plan and strategies, have had a visible impact  and resulted in development in socio-economic areas of Myanmar. Strong partnerships must be built through the  ongoing exchange of knowledge and experience with EFA partners. Myanmar will enhance collaborative efforts among  all education partners to ensure that learning fully serves as a catalyst for social development and for nurturing creative  individuals with the capacity for continuous learning. Thank you for your attention.
11. The President:   Thank you, Excellency. Our next speaker is His Excellency Mr Tõnis Lukas, Minister of Education and Research  of Estonia. Welcome.
12.1 M. Lukas (Estonie) :   Monsieur le Président de la Conférence générale, Monsieur le Président du Conseil exécutif, Mesdames et  Messieurs. Je voudrais tout d’abord féliciter le Monténégro pour son adhésion et Singapour pour son retour à l’UNESCO.  Nous avons bien conscience de l’importance d’une grande ouverture pour une coopération internationale. Nous  remercions tous ceux d’entre vous qui nous ont aidés dans les premières années suivant notre retour à l’indépendance.
12.2 Aujourd’hui, l’Estonie aide déjà les autres. Le 1er janvier 2007, l’Estonie comptait 1,3 million d’habitants, dont un  million environ avaient pour langue maternelle l’estonien. Nous, Estoniens, sommes peu nombreux, mais nous avons  notre État, notre langue et notre culture que nous souhaitons sauvegarder. Il est très important de garantir à tous nos  citoyens la possibilité d’accéder à une éducation de grande qualité, de la maternelle jusqu’aux études supérieures, ainsi  que la protection de notre patrimoine culturel.
12.3 Pour cette raison, le programme Éducation pour tous de l’UNESCO et plusieurs conventions pour la protection  du patrimoine culturel revêtent une grande importance pour l’Estonie, comme pour beaucoup d’autres pays. Dans le  cadre du plan d’action estonien en faveur de l’EPT, nous souhaitons concentrer essentiellement nos efforts sur  l’éducation inclusive et celle des minorités, sur la formation tout au long de la vie ainsi que sur l’éducation des adultes.  L’Estonie soutient l’objectif de l’UNESCO d’élargir l’accès à l’éducation de base dans le monde entier. Les programmes  préscolaires sont essentiels du point de vue de l’éducation et de l’adaptation sociale ainsi que pour la formation tout au  long de la vie. L’Estonie souhaite que 98 % des enfants puissent accéder à l’éducation préscolaire dès 2013. Celle-ci est  dispensée sous la forme d’un programme d’enseignement de base, un an avant l’éducation obligatoire.
12.4 Pour l’année 2007, nous avons élaboré les documents stratégiques concernant les différents domaines et  niveaux d’éducation qu’implique l’idéologie de la formation tout au long de la vie. Pour les Estoniens, déjà peu  nombreux, il n’est pas possible de réussir la restructuration de l’économie et de garantir la pérennité de la croissance  économique si l’on ne dispose, sur le marché du travail, que de jeunes diplômés. Les personnes de toutes les  générations, quel que soit leur niveau d’études, doivent bénéficier de l’apprentissage tout au long de la vie.  L’organisation de formations destinées aux adultes garantit l’accès et la participation de groupes jusqu’ici non intégrés.  Notre objectif pour 2008 est de porter à 10 % le taux de participation aux formations de la population âgée de 25 à
64 ans.
12.5 Dans le contexte de l’UNESCO, la priorité de l’Estonie, ces dernières années, a été le patrimoine culturel. Deux  événements le confirment : l’adhésion de l’Estonie, l’année dernière, à la Convention pour la sauvegarde du patrimoine  culturel immatériel de l’UNESCO, puis son élection au Comité intergouvernemental de sauvegarde du patrimoine culturel  immatériel. Notre statut de membre de ce Comité, ainsi que du Comité international de bioéthique, est pour nous une  responsabilité importante et valorisante.
12.6 La constitution d’une Liste représentative du patrimoine culturel immatériel de l’humanité est une initiative  importante. Au printemps dernier, un séminaire sur la constitution de ces listes a été organisé à Tallinn par la  Commission nationale d’Estonie pour l’UNESCO. Nous espérons que l’Estonie aura la possibilité, en 2009, d’organiser  une session du Comité intergouvernemental de sauvegarde du patrimoine culturel immatériel, également à Tallinn. Ce  serait un grand honneur pour nous de contribuer au développement et à la promotion de la sauvegarde du patrimoine  culturel et de présenter par la même occasion la diversité du patrimoine culturel estonien. Par exemple, notre grande  fête du Chant traditionnel, qui relève aussi du patrimoine culturel de l’UNESCO. Parallèlement au développement des  technologies de l’information, domaine où l’Estonie a enregistré de véritables succès, nous insistons sur la protection du  patrimoine culturel et moral de l’humanité. Aussi, l’Estonie soutient-elle activement le projet de Bibliothèque numérique  mondiale.
12.7 Nous préparons un dossier sur la chaîne humaine formée dans les trois pays baltes en vue de son inscription au  Programme Mémoire du monde de l’UNESCO. Pour nous, cette chaîne humaine est un événement unique dans  l’histoire de l’humanité qui mériterait d’être reconnu. Cette chaîne ininterrompue, formée de personnes se tenant par la  main, traversait l’Estonie, la Lettonie et la Lituanie. La date de cet événement était liée au cinquantenaire de la signature  du Pacte Molotov-Ribbentrop, entre l’Union soviétique stalinienne et l’Allemagne hitlérienne.
12.8 Monsieur le Président, chers collègues, l’Estonie est très attachée à la coopération culturelle entre les peuples  du monde car un pays qui estime et comprend les autres sera lui-même compris et estimé ! Je vous remercie de votre  attention.   (Applaudissements)
13. The President:   Thank you, Excellency, Minister of Education and Research of Estonia. Our next speaker is His Excellency  Mr Ronald Plasterk, Minister of Education, Culture and Science of the Netherlands. Welcome.
14.1 Mr Plasterk (Netherlands):   Thank you, Ms President, Your Excellencies, ladies and gentlemen. In my view, the equal treatment of men and  women is first and foremost a question of justice. But more than a human rights issue alone, it is a matter of life and  death for humankind. Without the full involvement of women, we will never solve the challenges facing our planet. So  without gender equality, our future is dark. We cannot solve global challenges without women. We have promised
214  ourselves to make the world a better place by the year 2015, a world from which poverty and hunger have largely been  banished, a world in which development is sustainable, a world in which all boys and girls go to school, and all men and  women are treated equally. But we can only keep those promises if women are involved in debating and deciding such  issues. We are rightly striving towards gender equality, but as we all know, it is a road filled with obstacles. Honour  crimes, trafficking in women, female genital mutilation, and systematic rape in conflict situations are fortunately now  widely seen as human rights violations, and the need to combat them has risen substantially higher on the international  political agenda. Nevertheless, these practices continue today. Women and girls all over the world still encounter all  kinds of discrimination and are denied proper education. This concerns me deeply. After all, education makes the  difference between dependence and independence. It is the foundation on which gender equality must be built. But even  if girls are educated and protected from these dangers, we still have a long way to go. Gender equality also means  achieving equal rights and opportunities in the job market and in decision-making that is vital to the future development of  a country. I must say, although we in the Netherlands are making progress, we can certainly do better there. More than a  third of the Dutch Government and Parliament are female, but this is not reflected at senior management level in the  wider government, the business community or the fields of education and academia. I would like to see a great many  more women involved in decision-making at the highest levels of all these fields in our country.
14.2 UNESCO is in a unique position under its mandate to promote gender equality. It does so with a view to protect  human rights, of course, but also recognizes that women are needed if countries are to prosper and develop. We still  have a long way to go, and gender equality must remain on the international agenda. We can, of course, all contribute to  this by keeping the issue high on the domestic agenda in each of our own countries.
14.3 In addition, the Netherlands has made Millennium Development Goals 3 and 5 foreign policy priorities, and that  is why I welcome the fact that UNESCO has again included gender equality along with Africa as one of the cross-cutting  themes in its Medium-Term Strategy for the years 2008-2013. The question is how much progress UNESCO can make  in this area in the coming years. Speaking as a minister of education as well as of women’s emancipation, I believe  education is key. UNESCO is a knowledge-driven organization. Among us we have the wealth of experience and best  practices on how education can contribute to achieving gender equality, and we need to tap into that experience and  share it.
14.4 A new policy period should not automatically mean more programmes or projects. I think it is important that  instead we look at the ways of getting the most out of existing programmes and expertise. Efficiency and effectiveness  are key. The Netherlands wants the United Nations as a whole to be more effective, including in the area of promoting  equal treatment for men and women. And while the new “One United Nations” reforms and UNESCO’s involvement in  them are of vital importance, achieving gender equality remains a task and a responsibility for the entire United Nations  system.
14.5 In closing, let me say that I applaud UNESCO for introducing a separate action plan to apply the gender equality  principle throughout its own Organization, but UNESCO should also ensure that the same applies to UNESCO institutes,  programmes and projects. I also look forward to seeing the action plan on our programmes announced by the Director- General, and in particular how education features in it. After all, as I mentioned before, you could say that it is a plan on  which our survival in the end depends. Thank you very much for your attention.  (Applause)
(16.1) Mr Toukan (Jordan) (translation from the Arabic):   Bismillāh ir-rahmān ir-rah īm (In the name of God, the Merciful, the Compassionate). Your Excellency the President of  the General Conference, may the peace and the mercy and blessings of God be upon you. It is my pleasure, at the beginning  of my address, to congratulate and give my blessing to Mr George Anastassopoulos on his election as President of the 34th  session. Mr President, I wish you every success in directing the proceedings of this important Conference. It is my pleasure to  extend gratitude and appreciation to His Excellency Dr Musa bin Jaafar bin Hassan for his excellent efforts during his term as  President of the 33rd session of the General Conference. I also extend greetings and appreciation to the Chairperson and  Members of the Executive Board for their outstanding efforts. I value highly all the activities undertaken by UNESCO during  the 2006-2007 biennium by virtue of the continuing efforts of the Director-General to enable achievement of its noble mission  under the circumstance and challenges we all face. The delegation of the Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan supports the Draft  Medium-Term Strategy for 2008-2013 which provides, by means of its comprehensive goals, a new and flexible foundation to  enable the Organization to respond in better fashion to current and future challenges. I should also like to express our support  for the Draft Programme and Budget for 2008-2009 and affirm the importance of persevering with the process of structural  reforms and review of the sectoral priorities to enable progress to be achieved in providing opportunities to Member States to  benefit from the Organization’s programmes, particularly in the Arab region, in addition to affirming the importance of  UNESCO’s role in the process of reforming the United Nations system to make it more integrated and efficient.
(16.2) Mr President, the changing circumstances in which we live today affirm the importance of the task with which  UNESCO is entrusted and our need, now more than at any time in the past, to give impetus to this noble task. Thus we  support the establishment of international relations based upon policies of peace, security, justice and stability for all peoples  of the world. Accordingly, the strategic link between sustainable development, respect for human rights, the subordination of  scientific knowledge to conservation of the environment, the sustainability of natural resources, the fostering of dialogue  between civilizations and cultures and the safeguarding of the tangible and intangible heritage of the peoples of the world is an  essential matter and a human responsibility which we must all contribute to bearing. In this regard, I should like to salute the  efforts of UNESCO’s Director-General, Mr Koïchiro Matsuura, with regard to stopping the Israeli excavations at the Mughrabi  ascent in Jerusalem and his role in urging all concerned parties to continue the diplomatic efforts to arrive at a plan for the  Mughrabi ascent in order to preserve its sanctity, sacredness and valuable historical status. I should also like to note the  efforts of my country’s government which, realizing the scale of the danger threatening the historical heritage and Islamic holy  places in Jerusalem, has undertaken ongoing campaigns over the decades to preserve it, as exemplified by the Hashemite  reconstruction initiatives, especially with regard to al-Aqs à Mosque, construction of the Saladin Minbar (pulpit) and the Dome  of the Rock, preservation of the civilizational and historical heritage of Jerusalem and continuous monitoring of the constant  threats from the excavations carried out by the Israeli authorities in a number of places throughout the city.
(16.3) Mr President, pursuant to the desire of the Jordanian Government to assist the situation of the Iraqi people, who are  facing difficult circumstances as a result of the war, which has led to the migration of large numbers of them to my country,  Jordan, all Iraqi students, whose numbers are estimated at approximately 35,000, have been allowed to enrol in Jordanian  schools without any restriction or condition, and free of charge. This stems from Jordan’s belief in the importance of providing  education for all (EFA), as affirmed by the Jordanian constitution which holds education to be an inalienable human right.
216  However, opening the doors to the enrolment of Iraqi students in Jordanian schools has, of course, put pressure on the  Jordanian educational system. The numbers of students in classes has increased, the Ministry has been obliged to change  some schools to a two-term system and additional teachers have been appointed. This has had a negative impact on school  infrastructure and facilities. Nevertheless, my country is carrying out its positive humanitarian role in caring for these students,  in cooperation with UNESCO and international organizations and bodies, by continuing to provide educational services for  these Iraqi students.
(16.4) Mr President, the Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan, which I am honoured to represent, is striving to build a prosperous,  modern, democratic Jordan, proud of its ancient civilization and cultural identity, open to other civilizations and peoples,  convinced of the need to preserve cultural diversity, opposed to fanaticism and all forms of discrimination and committed to  plurality, moderation, balance and to international instruments, particularly those concerning human rights. This proceeds from  the perspective of the principles of Amman’s mission in affirmation of the principles of the noble Islamic religion which, in their  totality, form the common denominator among all sections of humanity and lay the foundation for the encounter with those  adherents of the other revealed religions on a common footing in the service and for the well-being of humanity. My country  has adopted a national vision which strives to achieve sustainable development, placing it upon the path of rapid economic  development and broad-based social participation, within comprehensive strategies and numerous phases, which seek to  achieve educational and employment opportunities for all through the development of basic and higher education.
(16.5) Mr President, since its accession to UNESCO, Jordan has been committed to the Organization’s priorities, such as the  provision of quality education for all, the building of knowledge societies, working to reduce the gap between the haves and the  have-nots and implanting the principles of religious tolerance, as well as preserving cultural diversity among peoples and  subordinating science and technology to the service of humanity. The International Centre for Synchrotron Light for  Experimental Science and Applications in the Middle East (SESAME), which is to be opened under royal auspices and with  the Director-General of UNESCO present in June 2008, will be a significant indicator of the role of science and technology in  building trust among peoples. In conclusion, Mr President, I thank you. As-salāmu ‘alaikum wa-rah matu llāhi (Peace and the  mercy of God be upon you).  (Applause)
17. The President:   Thank you Your Excellency, Minister of Education of Jordan. Thank you very much. Our next speaker is Her  Excellency Honourable Zahiya Zareer, Minister of Education of Maldives. Welcome.
18.1 Ms Zareer (Maldives):   President of the General Conference, Excellencies, distinguished delegates, ladies and gentlemen, today it is  with great pleasure and hope that we return to this beautiful city of Paris to attend the 34th session of the UNESCO  General Conference. Allow me first to congratulate His Excellency George N. Anastassopoulos on his election to preside  over this esteemed gathering at the 34th session of the General Conference. We would like to thank His Excellency  Musa bin Jaafar bin Hassan for his able guidance and leadership during his tenure. Maldives would also like to take this  opportunity to congratulate Singapore and welcome Montenegro to the UNESCO family of nations.
18.2 Thinking back to our affiliations with this Organization, I am convinced that UNESCO has a very relevant and  instrumental role to play in solving many of the problems that afflict today’s societies, especially in cultivating “peace in  the minds of men”, attaining human development and attending to the persistent and pervasive problem of poverty,  ignorance, intolerance and injustice.
18.3 Madam President, to this end, I wish to emphasize the critical role of education. Even in the upcoming biennium,  education must remain UNESCO’s greatest mission. It is education that provides the basis for individuals to rise out of  poverty. It is education that gives people the capability to decide on the direction of their lives and to understand their  own rights. Education also gives individuals and countries the ability to understand different cultures and people through  dialogue and communication. In this regard, we fully endorse UNESCO’s programmes aimed at promoting education for  all (EFA) and lifelong learning.
18.4 Maldives is fortunate to have received assistance from UNESCO and others, and to have come a considerable  way in achieving the EFA goals and the Millennium Development Goals (MDGs). As a result, Maldives enjoys a 98%  literacy rate, and one of our biggest achievements is the universalization of seven years of primary education together  with gender parity, even on the remotest of our inhabited islands. Our aim now is to universalize 10 years of basic  education by 2010. We are quite confident that our national EFA strategies will enable us to achieve this target as well.  Another aspect of education which Maldives is introducing into the secondary curriculum is technical vocational  education, which we feel is crucial in order to develop individual potential, and to produce young people who will be  productive in the workplace. Having recognized the importance of providing a good education even at a very early age,  we now have a rapidly expanding early childhood care and development programme, with considerable and enthusiastic  support from the community. Maldives strongly believes that it is necessary to accelerate the progress of international  efforts aimed at helping all countries achieve the Dakar EFA goals by 2015, and it is with deep satisfaction that we note  the priority given to Major Programme I in the next Medium-Term Strategy and in the Programme and Budget for 2008-
18.5 Teacher education is an area in which Maldives needs to make considerable inroads. It is only recently that we  have started teacher-training programmes at the tertiary level. As a country where even today over 70% of secondary  teachers are expatriates from neighbouring countries, there is an urgent need to find opportunities to train large numbers  of good-quality teachers if we are to fully attain the Dakar goals and the MDGs. Therefore, in addition to allocating a  considerable proportion of the national budget for teacher training, the government is actively seeking support and  assistance from friendly countries, international and multilateral organizations to accelerate the process of producing  high-quality teachers for our schools. We believe that education for sustainable development is an important aspect of
217  UNESCO’s activities that will enable people around the world to benefit from development without causing further  damage to the environment.
18.6 Ladies and gentlemen, as you will be aware, Maldives is a nation of low-lying islands, and is in constant danger  from natural disasters. We saw an example of the devastation that could be wreaked by the ocean that surrounds our  islands in December 2004, when the South-East Asian tsunami caused so much damage in terms of human lives and in  economic terms. With the assistance of UNESCO and other United Nations agencies, as well as governments and other  organizations around the world, we have now been able to make considerable progress in the recovery process, and we  remain grateful for all the assistance rendered to us. Furthermore, we welcome the lead role played by UNESCO in the  efforts to set up a tsunami early warning system for the Indian Ocean region. Maldives emphasizes the importance of  integrating disaster prevention education into the curricula to build an aware and resilient community.
18.7 We are grateful to UNESCO for the work carried out by the World Heritage Committee, and we appreciate  greatly UNESCO’s efforts in protecting our common cultural heritage, both tangible and intangible, for future generations.  Furthermore, UNESCO’s cultural programmes support safeguarding cultural diversity and encouraging dialogue among  cultures and civilizations, and enhancing the linkages between culture and development, through capacity-building and  sharing of knowledge, and Maldives fully endorses the initiatives aimed at achieving these goals.
18.8 However, ladies and gentlemen, the stark truth is that we still keep witnessing horrible acts of terrorism every  single day of our lives. Unfortunately, even Maldives was recently shocked by the very first act of terrorism on our capital  island, and it has brought home to us very clearly the fact that terrorism is truly a worldwide issue, and that more work  needs to be done for us to understand each other and to respect each other. Maldives condemns strongly all forms of  terrorism, and supports all efforts to promote peace and stability among nations. Maldives also supports all international  efforts and instruments aimed at promoting human rights, cultural diversity and peace-building.
18.9 Madam President, Maldives has benefited greatly from the Participation Programme, and we believe that it is  truly useful for countries like ours. We would therefore welcome further activities under this Programme, since it enables  us to directly enhance various activities that fall within the programme areas of UNESCO.
18.10 Before I conclude, may I also convey our profound appreciation and deep gratitude to His Excellency Koïchiro  Matsuura for his reform initiatives and greater focus on tasks in UNESCO’s core mandate. We also thank the Director- General for putting aside some time in his very busy schedule to visit Maldives in 2006. We in the education sector in  Maldives look forward eagerly to the initiation of the teacher-training opportunities to which the Director-General referred  during this visit. Thank you once again, Sir, for being the first ever Director-General of UNESCO to visit Maldives.
18.11 Madam President, we fully support the Draft Programme and Budget for 2008-2009. Furthermore, we stand  firmly behind the programme-based Medium-Term Strategy that has been proposed for the period 2008-2013. We look  forward to even more active and effective cooperation in the next programme period. Thank you.  (Applause)
(20.1) Mr Benbouzid (Algeria) (translation from the Arabic):   Bismillāh ir-rahmān ir-rah īm (In the name of God, the Merciful, the Compassionate). Mr President of the General  Conference, Mr Chairperson of the Executive Board, Mr Director-General of UNESCO, Excellencies, ladies and gentlemen, it  is a source of please to find myself once more before you to expound on the extent of the integration and harmonization of the  efforts of my country, Algeria, in education and culture with the noble, worldwide mission of UNESCO. I take this opportunity to  congratulate Mr George Anastassopoulos on his election as President of the 34th session of the General Conference. I must  not omit to express my gratitude and appreciation to Mr Musa bin Jaafar bin Hassan for the effective role he performed during  his presidency of the previous session. I congratulate Singapore on its return to UNESCO and welcome the accession of  Montenegro to our venerable Organization.
(20.2) Ladies and gentlemen, at the commencement of the new century, where everything foretells of the dangers to a  humanity of different awareness, faced by the excesses of the great changes our world is experiencing, each of us realizes  that the responsibilities of UNESCO are growing more numerous and becoming ever more complex. It is well-known that the  stakes of the equation have become strategic. As such, we have to examine, without doubt or hesitation, the different  variables connected to the challenges we face, so that we might be able, with a strong sense of solidarity, to conceive of  means which can be made available to give a glimmer of hope for a better life to the most deprived inhabitants of the world. In  this regard, I extend my gratitude to the Director-General, Mr Matsuura who, having highlighted and reviewed these challenges,  has translated them in action plans and a strategy. This effort has made possible the redefinition of the honourable and noble  tasks of the Organization and ways of applying them in the field. On this occasion, I must commend the breadth of his vision  and, in particular, his firm determination to make UNESCO a global space for the promotion of cultural and religious diversity.  Was it not he who wisely declared here that, among the ocean of theses warning of the inevitable clash of cultures and  civilizations, cultural diversity represents the shared human heritage and that this heritage can be as a fortress which protects  against the real and symbolic violence threatening the new world? Was he not also correct in saying that one of the many  virtues of cultural diversity is that it can make globalization subservient to humanity?
(20.3) Distinguished ladies and gentlemen, my country, Algeria, is proud of being one of those countries in which the rate of  the eradication of illiteracy among its population is considered as one of the most significant indicators of human development,  assisting progress toward the general economic and social growth of the country. We similarly draw attention to the fact that  the desire for gender equality is very much taken into account and that disparities in living standards between town and  country are on the way to disappearing. Allow me to mention some of the data which highlight these efforts. In the current  school year, 25,000 scholastic institutions accepted more than eight million pupils, with more than 400,000 teachers  responsible for their education. In the higher education sector, there are more than one million students attending more than
100 university institutions and 600,000 trainees in vocational education, in approximately 700 vocational institutes of various  specializations. After laying the objective framework of our education systems, the Algerian State resolved, with effect from
2000, to carry out a wide-ranging reform of the educational and vocational system. The initiative for this important reform  process came from the President himself who decided, in May 2000, to appoint a national commission for reform of the  education system, bringing together specialists with different perspectives and from various political affiliations. We are all  aware that evaluation of the results of reform in the field of education and vocational training is a long and difficult process.  However, implementation of the initial changes in the education system have shown promising results, through improvement  of the level of teachers due to a dedicated policy of ongoing teacher development, radical change in programmes and  textbooks, the gradual, widespread introduction of information and telecommunications technology into our education  institutions and an increased openness to foreign languages with effect from the third year of basic education. Effort has been  required to foster training of the human elements, particularly with regard to philosophy, civil education and education in the  different categories of citizenship, such as instruction in environmental issues, the culture of human rights and democracy. All  of this, ladies and gentlemen, is a tangible reality in the Algeria of today. In this context, it is appropriate to mention the  valuable support provided by UNESCO in implementing the reform strategy, and by virtue of an ambitious reform programme  applied at Arab world level, we have been able to give concrete form to a number of phases of the reform strategy. The  successful cooperation between Algeria and UNESCO has earned the praise of all, given the exemplary features with which it  is endowed. The best evidence of this is the extension of this ambitious programme for a further term, for which I shall soon  conclude the contract with the Director-General. Brothers and sisters, thank you for your attention. As-salāmu ‘alaikum wa- rah matu llāhi ta’ālà wa-barakātuh (Peace and the mercy and blessings of God Almighty be upon you).  (Applause)  Mr Anastassopoulos takes the Chair.
21. Le Président :   Je vous remercie beaucoup, Monsieur le Ministre. Nous avons suivi vos propos avec tout l’intérêt qu’ils méritent.  Je prie Son Excellence Monsieur Bambang Sudibyo, Ministre de l’éducation nationale d’Indonésie, de bien vouloir  prendre la parole. Minister.
22.1 Mr Sudibyo (Indonesia):   As-salāmu ‘alaikum wa-rahmatu llāhi wa-barakātuh (Peace and the mercy and blessings of God be upon you).  Excellency the President of General Conference, Honourable Director-General of UNESCO, Chairperson of the  Executive Board, Excellencies, ministers, ambassadors, Assistant Directors-General, distinguished delegates, ladies and  gentlemen, first of all, I would like to join the other speakers to welcome the return of Singapore as a UNESCO Member  State and the arrival of Montenegro as a new UNESCO Member State. I would like to congratulate the President for  being elected President of the General Conference. I would like also to congratulate the Director-General of UNESCO,  Mr Koïchiro Matsuura, the staff of the UNESCO Secretariat and the Members of the Executive Board for all their efforts  to build world peace in spite of emerging conflicts we are facing across the globe from time to time.
22.2 In the establishment of peace, education will play the key role, especially in building culture and values in the  mindset of human beings. I firmly believe that only through education can the differences in terms of culture, belief and  norms be minimized so that understanding among cultures and religions may be achieved.
22.3 Excellencies, distinguished delegates, ladies and gentlemen, we cheer diversity as much as we appreciate  peace and unity. However, diversity has to be managed in such a way that it contributes to peace and unity. For this,  Indonesia relies very much on its solid and endurable national philosophy, pancasila, as national guidance that has  proven successful in stewarding us in time of turbulence and disintegration. This national philosophy has long taught us  tolerance and understanding, the values that emerge from local and traditional values. Hence, when democracy was first  introduced in the beginning of Indonesia’s reform era, we had less difficulty in adjusting to it, as democratic values had  already been our values since ancient times. The 2004 general election and direct election of our President and Vice- President proceeded successfully and peacefully. Reportedly 84% of eligible Indonesian voters cast their vote. This  success has been unexpectedly replicated in provincial as well as municipal elections, and now the direct election of  governors and heads of districts has become a common experience.
22.4 There have been a series of external shocks from natural as well as man-made disasters and monetary  problems that have turned out to be multidimensional crises and which have left more people in unfinished education,  disrupted tourism and led to environmental degradation. There were unprecedented natural calamities like the tsunami in  Aceh and Nias, the 2006 earthquake in Yogyakarta, the mud flooding in Sidoarjo, East Java, and the latest two-day  series of earthquakes in Sumatera, North Sulawesi and Papua that have seriously challenged our economic and social  resilience. The size and impact of these disasters are really beyond human imagination, as are the measures required to  recover from such a nightmare. Only with our serious commitment, shared responsibility and a sense of unity, can  Indonesia cope with these difficulties. In this respect, I would like to thank UNESCO and members of the global  community such as States, multilateral agencies, businesses, NGOs, as well as individuals for their quick response to  help tsunami victims in Aceh and Nias, and for UNESCO’s passionate assistance in rehabilitating the world cultural  heritage of the Prambanan Temple compounds in Yogyakarta.
22.5 Our passion to educate people from all walks of life is in line with UNESCO-initiated education for all (EFA)  programmes. Of some measures, we believe that education is a key to eradicate poverty and to promote durable peace.  In this respect, Indonesia, in cooperation with UNESCO, hosted the International Conference on the Right to Basic  Education as a Fundamental Human Right and the Legal Framework for Its Financing in 2005 which produced the  Jakarta Declaration promoting the right to basic education and to ensure access to quality education for all. The  Indonesian Government has expanded public spending on education almost threefold in the past three years, more than  half of which has been allocated to make sure that early childhood and school-age children can access quality education.  In cooperation with UNESCO, Indonesia’s own EFA mid-decade assessment has shown good progress in achieving the  six EFA goals. There has been a very significant increase in access to and coverage of early childhood education  services, reaching 47% by the end of 2006 up from 18% only in 2000.
22.6 In compliance with the Millennium Development Goals (MDGs) and EFA, we are nearing the successful  achievement of the compulsory nine-year basic education programme nationwide. By mid-2007 the gross enrolment rate  for primary six-year education had already reached 115%, and the gross enrolment rate for three-year junior secondary  education had reached 93.5%.
22.7 At present, Indonesia has already met the EFA goals for gender equality in all levels of education, except in  senior secondary vocational education. We have made good progress in meeting literacy and life-skills targets. In  illiteracy eradication, Indonesia firmly believes that the Dakar target can be achieved by 2009, based on the impressive  average illiteracy eradication rate of 1.6 million people per year in the last three years. Teaching is an honourable  profession, therefore, the government has planned to extend teachers’ qualifications by improving their competencies  through a certification programme and ensuring the delivery of quality education in 10 years’ time covering 2.7 million  teachers spread out over 33 Indonesian provinces.
22.8 Excellencies, distinguished delegates, ladies and gentlemen, I very much welcome the recent development of  the Indonesia-UNESCO Country Programming Document, which has established a joint programmatic approach through  a consultative process, aimed at guiding the realization of shared goals in education, science, culture and communication  and information through a cross-cutting and interdisciplinary approach. The programme highlights the primary objectives  of collaborative action between UNESCO and the Government of Indonesia, and offers specific programmes which  contribute to the achievement of the following objectives: to attain quality education for all; to mobilize science
220  knowledge; to implement policy for sustainable development and addressing related ethical challenges; and to build  inclusive knowledge societies. Thank you very much.  (Applause)
(24.1) Mr Ali (United Arab Emirates) (translation from the Arabic):   Bismillāh ir-rahmān ir-rah īm (In the name of God, the Merciful, the Compassionate). Mr President of the General  Conference, Mr Chairperson of the Executive Board, Mr Director-General, Excellencies heads and members of delegations,  ladies and gentlemen, it is my pleasure at the outset to congratulate you, Mr President, on your election to preside over our  current session and for the trust you have acquired of all Member States. We wish you every success in facilitating  Conference proceedings and the duties awaiting you over the next two years. I also extend deep gratitude to the President of  the previous session, His Excellency Dr Musa bin Jaafar bin Hassan, for all his untiring efforts in the service of UNESCO’s  mission and issues, carried out with insight and deep understanding. We likewise appreciate the skill and prudence with which  His Excellency Zhang Xinsheng has graced his chairmanship of the Executive Board over the last biennium. We extend full  appreciation to His Excellency and to all Members of the Executive Board.
(24.2) On behalf of the government of my country and for myself, I extend gratitude and appreciation to Mr Matsuura and his  colleagues for the achievements made since he assumed leadership of the Secretariat of UNESCO, for his efforts to improve  and simplify the method of budget presentation, improve programme standards and focus on the desired results in all activities.  The clarity in defining the five overarching objectives of the Draft Medium-Term Strategy for 2008-2013, including attaining  quality education, mobilizing knowledge for sustainable development, building knowledge societies and fostering cultural  diversity and intercultural dialogue shall help to highlight the strategic perspective of the work of UNESCO regarding  programming and budget preparation for the next six years. In this connection, we commend making responsiveness to the  needs of Africa and achieving gender equality top priorities in the new Draft Strategy.
(24.3) Mr President of the General Conference, ladies and gentlemen, the United Arab Emirates has no hesitation in  supporting the path of reform which has been ongoing for several years in our Organization, particularly in relation to  increased transparency, the fostering of results-based management, the sound management of decentralization, the closer  involvement of Member States and National Commissions in the preparation of the Programme and Budget to enable  UNESCO to adapt to the demands of the process of United Nations reform and the standardization of the performance of its  bodies in support of national development plans and programmes at the country level. We hoped that UNESCO’s regular  budget for 2008-2009 would show an increase in line with real growth to enable it to continue to perform its role effectively in  keeping pace with global developments and challenges. In the education sector, which represents an absolute national priority  for us, we express our great satisfaction at the adoption of the Draft Medium-Term Strategy to attain quality education for all  (EFA), this being the key element in human development. It is consistent with our strategies in respect of establishing a high- quality educational system, focusing on improving elements of excellence, whether in content, methodology or management.  The United Arab Emirates has been successful in ensuring the right to education for all, eradicating illiteracy and achieving  equal opportunities for both genders without discrimination. Indeed, we are moving toward making pre-school education  compulsory and it is already available to all. At this stage, efforts are being directed toward a focus on improving the quality of  education, as well as the development programmes which we are working to implement. To encourage innovation in the field  of education, a number of pedagogical prizes have been established. The first of these is the Sheikh Zayed Bin Sultan Al  Nahyan Prize, named after the President and concerned with the educational process, as an incentive for all those working in  the field of education to evaluate their distinctive achievements and innovations. In this context, we have also instituted the  Hamdan Bin Rashid Al Maktoum Award for Distinguished Academic Performance, the proceedings of which in December
2006 were graciously honoured by the presence of the Director-General. With the Secretariat of UNESCO, we are currently  seeking to expand this into an international award for distinguished academic performance under the auspices of UNESCO,  particularly as it is concerned with encouraging better educational practices designed to raise the level of teaching  performance and develop the pedagogical environment in developing countries. Next month in Sharjah, the Regional  Educational Planning Centre will be opened as a category 2 centre under UNESCO’s auspices. It is the fruit of cooperation  between the United Arab Emirates and UNESCO, one of the most important goals of which is the planning of distinctive,  quality education. Seven years after the Dakar World Education Forum, follow-up confirms that the hoped-for results in the  field of education for all have not been satisfactorily achieved, making it incumbent on us to investigate innovative ways to  make use of the abilities and energies with which the countries of the South abound to achieve better education for all. We  support the draft resolution put forward by the Group of 77 and China on the creation of a South-South cooperation fund for  education and the inclusion of model projects in this field in the Programme and Budget for 2008-2009.
(24.4) Ladies and gentlemen, education, culture and science are the pillars of human development, and human capacities  cannot be developed without raising their level. In the Arab world, we face great challenges in the areas of human  development which require the cooperation and support of UNESCO to address: in education and science, combating  desertification, water and renewable energy, in addition to the safeguarding of heritage and in the field of social change. In the  United Arab Emirates, we accord these issues the utmost importance and, in this connection, His Highness Sheikh  Mohammed Bin Rashid Al Maktoum has taken the initiative of establishing a foundation, with a budget of $10 billion,  concerned with the promotion of regional Arab efforts. This foundation shall undertake investment in the basic knowledge  environment and fund a series of initiatives and projects designed to develop intellectual and scientific capacities in the region  and prepare a new generation of young leaders enjoying the ability to advance the pace of development in order to affirm the  region’s opportunities and stakes. His Highness also set in motion last month the Dubai project to bring education to one
222  million children in deprived regions. This is a project which relies on an open initiative to gather donations from official and  private organizations, companies and individuals; efforts on the part of society are still continuing to support this initiative.
(24.5) Ladies and gentlemen, the safeguarding of the national cultural identities of peoples in a world in which claims about  the clash of civilizations and conflict of cultures have multiplied has come to represent the cornerstone for the building of a  world in which peace prevails, and cultures and civilizations meet to combat all forms of ignorance which feed negative images  of the other. In this regard, we support the UNESCO plan to bring together specializations in the field of intercultural dialogue  and incorporate these in the Alliance of Civilizations initiative, within the framework of the United Nations.
(24.6) Respected members of the General Conference, the United Arab Emirates renews its call to grant Palestine full  membership of UNESCO and supports the efforts of UNESCO and its Director-General, Mr Matsuura, to upgrade Palestinian  educational and cultural institutions and activate the Joint UNESCO-Palestinian Authority Committee. We urge our  Organization and the international community to work to safeguard the city of Jerusalem, which is included in the World  Heritage List.
(24.7) Ladies and gentlemen, my country renews its commitment to UNESCO’s mission and adds its voice to the calls for  goodwill to enable peace and justice to be established in our world. Thank you.  (Applause)
25. The President:   Thank you very much, Minister. It is now time to call on His Excellency Mr Castro Jaén, Minister of Education of  Panama to take the floor.
(26.1) Mr Castro Jaén (Panama) (translated from the Spanish):   Good morning, Mr President of the General Conference, Mr Director-General, ministers, ambassadors, ladies and  gentlemen. It is an honour for me to be with you in this august and renewed forum. Thank you for letting me describe the  fundamental traits of education in Panama, which is undergoing transformation.
(26.2) The renewal of education in Panama goes hand in hand with the dynamic struggle to close the gaps in terms of  poverty, inequality and social exclusion, which severely affect Panama’s indigenous areas, rural villages and marginal urban  sectors. The actions taken by the national government are focused on strengthening quality education, by means of  redistributing incomes, and improving health and safety. Education is the key to building a strong participatory democracy and  a solid culture of peace. Panamanians, inspired by a coherent vision of human rights, are investing more and more economic  resources in fair quality education, in the firm belief that people and not goods lie at the heart of any creative and productive  process. Suffice it to say that the 2007 budget of the Ministry of Education was raised to $110 million, in order to increase our  human development. The Strategic Education Plan for 2005-2009, framed by the Government of President Martín Torrijos,  includes a proposal to replace the current educational model with a modern model of quality based on participation, efficiency  and equality. The strategic area of quality and modernity in learning is the spearhead of the Plan, followed by the areas of  equal opportunities, the social commitment of education, and efficient administration. It is estimated that 60% of the Plan has  been achieved with acceptable resources.
(26.3) In the relatively short term we intend to reach high standards of quality in multidimensional education or quality of  learning, quality of curricular content, quality of teachers, quality of assessment, quality of education technology and quality of  infrastructure. We are expanding the coverage of pre-school education and maximizing the coverage of lower secondary and  secondary education, while making education free and compulsory for children of 4 to 18 years of age. We are stepping up the  efficient use of information and communication technologies in educational administrative management and are fighting the  remaining 7.2% illiteracy rate in the country. We are making noteworthy efforts to revolutionize educational curricula by  bringing their content into line with scientific progress. We are increasing inclusive education and paying special attention to  disability. Strengthening the national identity and culture is a value of primordial importance.
(26.4) Education for all (EFA) is a major concern in our country, and the Strategic Plan for 2005-2009 essentially reflects the  aims, spirit and direction set by the Dakar Framework for Action. We have achieved three of the six EFA goals: primary education  for all (99%), gender parity (98%) and increased literacy (92.4%). To be honest, we are still not satisfied, we are seriously behind  with regard to goal no. 1: quality of education, goal no. 2: expanding early childhood education and goal no. 3: learning needs of  young people and adults. In order to overcome our weakness in the area of quality we have framed a State curricular policy under  which a national commission is established to overhaul the secondary-level curriculum and significantly change the focus of  teacher training. Plans are being developed to remedy the shortcomings detected in learning achievement tests.
(26.5) We think a harmonious balance must be struck between technological and scientific training and education in values.  Here the question of human rights is one of crucial importance since we wish to consolidate in our country an exemplary  culture of peace. We recently set up an initiative to establish a Latin American Centre of Training in Human Rights and an  international observatory to be housed in the old and sadly famous School of the Americas, a torture instruction centre during  the cold war. We also launched an initiative to create a Joint Fund for Central America, the Dominican Republic and Panama  as part of a social emergency plan, aimed at totally eradicating child labour and incorporating over 2,200,000 children at risk in  formal education under special programmes.
(26.6) Panama is a multi-ethnic, multicultural and multilingual society and interculturality is therefore a very important aspect  of national education. In this inter-ethnic mosaic seven indigenous peoples live together, 10% of the population with their own  languages, cultures and worldviews. The Bilingual Intercultural Plan lays emphasis on strengthening indigenous languages,  rapid implementation of an indigenous alphabet, schooling in both Spanish and the native tongue and placing value on the  historical and cultural worldview of the native American peoples. To put an end to social exclusion the national government  now has a successful programme called the Opportunities Network, which focuses on two areas, health and education, with a  grants component. Special education and inclusiveness are the focuses of a proactive policy implemented by the State in  Panama, where 11% of the population is disabled in some way. In Panama we see diversity as a human value and not a  limiting factor. For that reason the issue of diversity is one of the national government’s main concerns, and one outstanding  feature in that regard is curricular flexibility in order to respond effectively and scientifically to different individual situations and  to the different ways in which students and pupils learn.
(26.7) Mr President, Panama unreservedly supports the reform process led by UNESCO in every sphere of education and, in  particular, in the area of EFA, safeguarding the tangible and intangible cultural heritage and promoting human rights. We are  pleased to announce that, as part of South-South cooperation, the Republic of Panama will offer the Republic of Haiti technical  assistance in terms of education. Thank you very much.
27. Le Président :   Muchas gracias señor Ministro. Je voudrais maintenant appeler Madame Baiba Rivža, Ministre de l’éducation et  des sciences de Lettonie. Minister.
28.1 Ms Rivža (Latvia):   Mr President of the General Conference, dear delegates, at the outset I would like to congratulate you,  Excellency, on your election as the President of the General Conference. We wish you success in your important duties  during the presidency.
28.2 Mr President, Latvia associates itself with the statement made on behalf of the European Union by the  distinguished minister of Portugal. The 34th session of the General Conference has the important task on adopting a new  Medium-Term Strategy, that is, starting the new policy directions and analysing the policy priorities already undertaken  for the work of the Organization. In this regard, it is our strong belief that education, including higher education and  research, should be the major priority in the work of UNESCO. Therefore, we would like to express our full support for  the remarkable action of UNESCO towards achieving the education for all (EFA) goals, as well as the leading role of  UNESCO in the implementation of the United Nations Decade of Education for Sustainable Development (2005-2014). In  this regard we would like to point out the special role that the Associated Schools Project Network play in this work of  UNESCO. Latvia views with great concern to the last biennium activities that had no assured to use the full potential of  this Network.
28.3 Being on the way to eliminating illiteracy and other obstacles, we would like to see UNESCO continuing to  decentralize its work, and the role of National Commissions further recognized and National Commissions must be seen  as one of the most important tools in the implementation of regular programmes. As an example, I would like to mention  the very successful cooperation of ten Baltic Sea States in the framework of EFA. Starting in 2002, it has been ongoing  for five years already and this cooperation, which has been facilitated by the National Commissions, has produced good  results for education systems in our countries. Bearing in mind the challenges our world is facing, we should also focus  our attention on the need to enrol every child in education. In this regard, we express our full support to the forthcoming  International Conference on Education. This Conference will be held next year in Geneva. To emphasize the important  role of this event, and to build dialogue in the Europe and North America region, Latvia will host the regional meeting of  experts and policy-makers from 24 to 26 February 2008. I would like to take this opportunity to invite you to come to this  meeting and visit us and our beautiful country, Latvia.
28.4 Mr President, Latvia stresses the positive feedback from the work of the World Forum on Education, Research  and Knowledge. It is very important for policy planning and also for the implementation of this policy in the Baltics. I  would like to thank every country, and particularly Sweden, for financial support they have provided to this Forum’s work,  and look forward to the successful future interdisciplinary activities that will be undertaken with this Forum.
28.5 In the field of science, Latvia is happy to learn of the results of the overall review of the science programmes.  We believe that the recommendations of the Overall Review Committee should be taken seriously into account and  implemented. We believe that the nature of science and culture requires interdisciplinary thinking, and this should be the  major principle of the work of UNESCO.
28.6 During the last biennium, Latvia attached great importance to the implementation of the Convention for the  Safeguarding of the Intangible Cultural Heritage. We highly appreciate UNESCO’s work in this field. We would like to  point also to the important role of UNESCO in ensuring the protection of the heritage, which is a very special dimension  of UNESCO, and therefore should be further promoted. It is ever important to emphasize the role of culture in the  building of peace in the minds of men, as is stated in the Constitution of UNESCO. Building dialogue among nations has  always been a priority for Latvia, and the caucus approach has been tried and tested by the three Baltic States.
28.7 Colleagues, I would like to finish my statement by expressing Latvia’s support for the work of UNESCO in the  activities following the World Summit on the Information Society. The Summit came up with an important roadmap in  building knowledge societies. Some of the issues UNESCO was advocating during the Summit will soon come to reality.  I refer to the internationalization of domain names which will facilitate access to the Internet for many people around the  world. New technologies also open up new possibilities in the management of UNESCO. Thank you for your attention.  (Applause)
29. The President:   Thank you very much, Ms Rivža. I would like to ask His Excellency Mr Químico Jorge Brovetto, Minister of  Education and Culture of Uruguay to take the floor. Sir.
(30.1) Mr Brovetto (Uruguay) (translation from the Spanish):   Mr President, ministers, distinguished delegates. On behalf of Uruguay may I congratulate you, Mr President, on your  election as President of the 34th session of the General Conference and assure you of our full support and cooperation. This
34th session of the General Conference has a special significance for Uruguay as it marks the end of our term on the  Executive Board, during which we had the honour of working under the fair and balanced leadership of its Chairperson,  Mr Zhang Xinsheng, of China. I wish to greet him and all the other Members of the Executive Board. We also wish to praise  the work of the Director-General, Mr Matsuura, under whose leadership UNESCO has been acting as the main intellectual  forum for reflection and analysis in the United Nations.
(30.2) Mr President, I should like to refer to certain specific aspects of the state of the Organization. Uruguay is firmly  committed to the process of reform at the United Nations and is one of the countries chosen to develop the One United  Nations pilot plan. UNESCO must take part in this reform process, the outcome of which must be decided by the Member  States. As far as the budget is concerned, Uruguay supports the recommendation of the Executive Board to approve a slight  increase and hopes that this will be used to boost the Organization’s programmes and activities. We must repeat what was  expressed by the Executive Board: it is illogical to recommend an increase in the budget while proposing to decrease the
226  resources earmarked for the programmes. The major programmes must be maintained at least at the same budgetary level as  the previous biennium, in particular with respect to the Participation Programme.
(30.3) With regard to the budget process and budgetary techniques, UNESCO should fully join the era of results-based  budgeting with specific, properly designed, measurable indicators that can be considered by the Member States, who should  be able to see a clear link between the resources requested, the activities foreseen and the expected results. In terms of  human resources, Uruguay is pleased to see the progress made towards equitable geographical distribution and encourages  the Director-General to continue working in that direction.
(30.4) Mr President, in view of the importance UNESCO attaches to climate change and development, Uruguay wishes to  reiterate the priority it gives to this subject and, as a firm and determined defender of a healthy and ecologically balanced  environment in terms of individual and collective rights to fair and sustained human development, it will throw all its support  behind UNESCO in this matter.
(30.5) Another aspect of fundamental importance on UNESCO’s agenda is the promotion of human rights, in which the  Organization must play a vital role. Uruguay is therefore proud of the activities carried out by the UNESCO Chair in Human  Rights successfully functioning at the University of the Republic. Recently – and together with Colombia, Ecuador, Guatemala,  Mexico and the Bolivarian Republic of Venezuela – we tabled a draft decision at the Executive Board calling on UNESCO to  organize activities in connection with the commemoration of the sixtieth anniversary of the Universal Declaration of Human  Rights, which was approved. We should also like to refer to the UNESCO initiative to defend human rights and the Coalition of  Latin American and Caribbean Cities against Racism, Discrimination and Xenophobia. Uruguay is committed to this matter  and has proposed a strengthening of the activities of this initiative by creating a network of national authorities to support  migrants who fall victim to racism, discrimination and xenophobia.
(30.6) Uruguay welcomes and reiterates its satisfaction with and support for two international instruments recently adopted  by UNESCO: the Convention on the Protection and Promotion of the Diversity of Cultural Expressions, which Uruguay has  already ratified and is firmly and resolutely applying, and the Universal Declaration on Bioethics and Human Rights, a symbol  of the decisive importance of bioethics in today’s world.
(30.7) Mr President, our country is embarking upon a far-reaching overhaul of education in order to offer everyone the  lifelong right to relevant and practical quality education. To launch this process the Ministry of Education and Culture organized  a nationwide debate on education, which took place during 2006. For the first time, thousands of Uruguayans from the cities,  villages and the countryside expressed their views, criticism and proposals about the education the country needs. The new  law will treat education as a fundamental human right, create a national education system, covering education from early  childhood (under three years of age) to tertiary and informal education. UNESCO has been supporting this educational reform.
(30.8) A chapter apart must be set aside for actions taken to fight the digital divide and promote a model of development  based on improving the skills of the whole population and achieving greater equity in society’s access to information and  knowledge. To that end, a programme of educational connectivity has begun to be implemented in order to give every pupil  and teacher in State primary education a personal computer paid for by the State. All the computers are connected to the  Internet and to a network. In 2009, all children at State schools will have one of these computers. All these measures and the  very important growth in investment in science and technology education, in historic terms for the country, constitute both an  opportunity and a challenge. That is where we are. Thank you very much.
31. Le Président :   Muchas gracias señor Brovetto. Permettez-moi de faire un bref commentaire en appelant le Ministre de  l’éducation, des sciences et de la technologie d’Argentine. Ce commentaire a trait à la présence des Argentins, hier à  Paris, en un autre endroit. Mais je ne veux pas m’étendre davantage, je pense que nous aurons certainement encore la  possibilité de voir les Argentins s’illustrer brillamment dans certaines compétitions sportives où nous avons souvent  l’occasion de les admirer. Monsieur le Ministre, veuillez m’excuser.
(32.1) Mr Filmus (Argentina) (translation from the Spanish):   Mr President, Mr Deputy Director-General, delegates and ministers. It is a great honour for me to address this
34th session of the General Conference of UNESCO. This is the third opportunity that I have had the pleasure of doing so as  the Minister of Education, Science and Technology of the Argentine Republic. Therefore, I should like to begin by reasserting  my country’s commitment, and that of its President, Dr Néstor Kirchner, and of its people, to the objectives of peace, justice,
228  solidarity and educational and cultural development being promoted by UNESCO. I should also like to state that we are  particularly supportive of the actions undertaken by the Director-General, Koïchiro Matsuura, and the Deputy Director-General,  Marcio Barbosa. They both have worked hard to strengthen UNESCO’s presence in the world, especially in countries like  Argentina that need its support more.
(32.2) In December 2007, my Ministry of Education will complete a four-year management cycle. This period has been one of  extraordinary dynamism in Argentina. Let us not forget that we began our work against a background of a serious social  emergency. Over 60% of the school-age population were living in conditions of poverty, many schools limited their tasks to  social welfare and in some provinces teachers were not being paid. That profound social and institutional breakdown forced us  to take urgent steps. Nevertheless we started with the conviction that to act in an emergency we needed to have clear long- term objectives. From that viewpoint the Ministry of Education clearly believed that the basic aim of an education policy is to  contribute to the construction of a more developed society and, above all, a more just one.
(32.3) After four years of management we can appreciate a set of positive results in terms of quantity and quality alike. These  results are due to the considerable financial effort made in education that exceeds all levels ever recorded in the history of our  country. The National Congress passed a law that allowed for an increase in investment from 3.65% of Gross Domestic  Product (GDP) in 2002 to 6% by 2010. In an unprecedented effort Argentina has doubled the resources allocated to education  in the past four years. Financial investment has been focused on achieving nationwide equality with regard to the teachers’  working conditions, improving the school infrastructure, distributing books, computers and teaching materials to all schools,  and improving access and stability in the system by means of a grants programme for all the neediest students.
(32.4) Alongside the problems linked to the emergency considerable attention has also been paid to changing educational  norms with a view to the medium and long term. Common teaching nuclei have been approved to even out the quality of  knowledge countrywide, while efforts have been put into raising the quality of teacher training, restoring technical education  which was eliminated in the 1990s and approving a new National Education Act. Among all these advances, the new  legislation makes secondary schooling compulsory, prioritizes the inclusion of children from early childhood, plans for full-day  primary schooling, establishes a teacher hierarchy, actively incorporates new information and communication technologies in  the classroom and creates an educational television channel, which has already begun to operate. I am proud to confirm that  Argentina is emerging from the crisis meeting virtually all the objectives set by UNESCO’s Education for All Programme. I  should like to point out that most of the changes and the approval of the new laws have taken place against a background of  solid national consensus and discussions including all the political forces and all protagonists in the education community. This  is perhaps the greatest legacy that we are leaving to future generations: the framing of State education policies that are being  consolidated and continually implemented beyond the electoral cycles proper to democracy.
(32.5) Mr President, Mr Deputy Director-General, delegates. Fulfilment of the Millennium Development Goals and, in  particular, the targets of the Education for All Programme are far from guaranteed in many countries. We must sound the  alarm now as it is still possible to overcome that situation, but if current trends continue the proposed targets are at risk.  Humanity must not allow them to be delayed further as that would mean condemning to poverty and a lack of education  millions and millions of children, young people and adults, especially in the least developed countries. To attain those vital  aims good will and statements of noble intentions are not enough. Reality shows that the gap between those who have access  to education and new technologies and those who are deprived of them continues to widen and is reaching dramatic  dimensions. There is a need to increase investment and cooperation between the most developed nations and those that most  need it. That is why, here at UNESCO, at the 32nd session of the UNESCO General Conference we launched an appeal to  explore new mechanisms for financial cooperation with the developing countries. On that occasion we asked UNESCO to lead  a process that would make it possible to consider swapping foreign debt, which determines the conditions for development  and growth in many countries, for investments in education. Four years later we wish to thank UNESCO for supporting the  initiative and the proposal made by Argentina, Brazil, Paraguay, Peru, Colombia and all Latin America and Caribbean Group  (GRULAC) countries.
(32.6) At its last session the General Conference adopted a resolution to establish a working group on debt swaps for  education, which I had the honour to chair at the request of the Director-General. This group met twice, in Paris and Buenos  Aires, and comprised 12 Member States, international organizations, development agencies and civil society networks. The  working group’s conclusions and recommendations have been presented to the Director-General and demonstrate that we  have a truly just and viable alternative for improving investment in education where it is most needed and to relieve the heavy  burden of foreign debt for many countries. Allow me to point out in brief that the working group pinpointed and in some cases  supported over 20 processes for swapping debt for education between creditor and debtor countries for a total of around  $700 million. We wish to highlight the supportive attitude of the Government and people of Spain towards Latin America. This  sum of over $700 million helped towards the fulfilment of the education for all goals and will help millions of children and young  people to have a more dignified future. On behalf of those children I should like to thank the Director-General for supporting  our initiative and call upon this General Conference to agree to continue with the group and open it to more nations, so that the  work on achieving this noble objective can be stepped up.
(32.7) Our country is paying close attention to UNESCO’s scientific and university programmes. We support the  Management of Social Transformations Programme (MOST), with which we held a social sciences forum meeting in Argentina  and Uruguay in 2006. While inaugurating here at UNESCO Headquarters the exhibition on Educating in Memory to Build the  Future, we also proposed the creation of the international institute for human rights education, to operate in the ESMA  (Escuela de Mecánica de la Armada), the site of one of the biggest torture camps during the last military dictatorship. I should  also like to express my appreciation for the work of the regional offices in Montevideo, Santiago de Chile and Caracas and that  of the IIEP (UNESCO International Institute for Educational Planning), and to express our thanks for the support for the Voice  of the Voiceless Programme.
(32.8) Mr President, Mr Deputy Director-General, distinguished delegates, I should like to conclude by reiterating Argentina’s  firm commitment to continuing to support the work, ideals and aims of UNESCO and to strengthen them further. Accordingly, it  has been proposed together with the countries that make up GRULAC that Argentina will be a member of the next Executive  Board of the Organization. We think that this will help to bring about a more just world. A world that everybody, and each and  every child and young person on the planet deserves. Thank you very much.
33. Le Président :   Muchas gracias, señor Ministro. Je voudrais appeler maintenant Son Excellence Monsieur Amadou Touré,  Ministre des enseignements secondaire et supérieur et de la recherche scientifique du Mali. Monsieur le Ministre.
34.1 M. Touré (Mali) :   Monsieur le Président de la Conférence générale, Monsieur le Président du Conseil exécutif, Mesdames,  Messieurs les chefs de délégations, Monsieur le Directeur général, Mesdames et Messieurs, je voudrais adresser mes  chaleureuses félicitations au Président à l’occasion de son élection à la présidence de la Conférence générale. Je  voudrais aussi saluer les efforts fournis par le Président du Conseil exécutif pour suivre et exécuter, depuis la dernière  Conférence générale, les activités de l’Organisation afin de lui permettre d’atteindre ses objectifs et de réaliser ses  idéaux.
34.2 Tout au long de son mandat qui s’achève cette année, le Mali s’est pleinement investi dans cette tâche, à ses  côtés, au sein du Conseil exécutif, en la personne de mon regretté prédécesseur, le professeur Mamadou Lamine  Traoré. Vous me permettrez encore une fois de saluer sa mémoire et de prier le Tout-Puissant pour le repos de son  âme.
34.3 Monsieur le Directeur général, le Mali rend hommage au travail combien méritoire que vous accomplissez à la  tête de notre Organisation. Il salue votre intérêt pour l’Afrique et votre engagement personnel pour la promotion de la  démocratie et le développement de l’éducation, de la science, de la culture et de la communication sur notre continent.
34.4 Monsieur le Président, permettez-moi de porter à la connaissance de notre auguste assemblée que mon pays,  le Mali, s’est senti particulièrement honoré d’avoir été choisi par l’UNESCO pour accueillir la première Conférence  régionale africaine sur l’alphabétisation dans le monde, qui s’est tenue les 10, 11 et 12 septembre 2007 à Bamako. Cette  Conférence, la première du genre sur le continent africain, a eu la particularité de bénéficier, à l’invitation de la Première  Dame du Mali, Mme Touré Lobo Traoré, de la participation d’épouses de chefs d’État africains qui se sont  solennellement engagées à inclure l’alphabétisation parmi leurs actions sociales pour l’émergence d’un plus grand  nombre de femmes et de filles lettrées au service du développement endogène de l’Afrique.
34.5 Compte tenu de l’importance des engagements pris par la Conférence et de l’appel de Bamako en faveur de  l’alphabétisation, le Président de la République du Mali, Son Excellence M. Amadou Toumani Touré, a pris l’engagement  solennel d’être leur défenseur au niveau du continent. Ce faisant, le Mali, à travers son Président, manifeste encore une  fois son profond attachement aux idéaux de l’UNESCO, à la réalisation de l’Éducation pour tous et des Objectifs du  Millénaire pour le développement ainsi qu’à tout ce qui contribue à la recherche de solutions durables au pressant  problème de l’éducation en Afrique.
34.6 Monsieur le Président, la pénurie d’enseignants persiste dans mon pays, et cela malgré les multiples efforts  accomplis dans les domaines de la formation et du recrutement des maîtres. Voilà pourquoi mon pays continue  d’exprimer son adhésion à l’Initiative pour la formation des enseignants en Afrique subsaharienne et sollicite du même  coup l’appui de l’UNESCO pour la formation de nos enseignants. Nous sollicitons également l’accompagnement de  l’Organisation dans la revitalisation au Mali des chaires UNESCO relatives à l’environnement et à la promotion de la  culture de la paix et des droits de l’homme.
34.7 Monsieur le Président, honorables délégués, le Mali apprécie le programme en matière d’éducation et la vision  stratégique à moyen terme proposés, compte tenu de l’importance qu’il accorde à l’alphabétisation, qui occupe une  place de choix dans la mise en œuvre du Programme décennal de développement de l’éducation (PRODEC)  actuellement mené dans notre pays. Aussi, mon pays souhaite-t-il l’accompagnement de l’UNESCO dans la réforme de  notre système éducatif, notamment dans l’élaboration des politiques sectorielles. En particulier, le Mali sollicite l’appui de  l’Organisation dans la prise en charge des besoins spécifiques des Centres d’éducation pour le développement (CED)  destinés aux jeunes déscolarisés et non scolarisés dont l’insertion professionnelle requiert des stratégies nouvelles.  Notre pays est concerné par l’Initiative pour l’alphabétisation : savoir pour pouvoir – LIFE. Il adhère au contenu de ce  programme et demande l’appui de l’UNESCO en vue d’une meilleure mobilisation des fonds. Il souhaite aussi l’appui de  l’UNESCO en faveur de l’important projet malien de formation de formateurs dans le domaine de l’éducation des femmes  et des filles, notamment à travers les centres d’apprentissage féminin (CAFE). Notre souhait est aussi de voir l’UNESCO  s’impliquer davantage, d’une part, dans le développement de l’enseignement secondaire et professionnel, et d’autre part  dans la quête d’un enseignement supérieur de qualité, en contribuant à la création d’une bibliothèque centrale à  l’Université de Bamako.
34.8 Dans le même esprit, mon pays soutient fermement l’important projet de l’UNESCO d’organiser une Conférence  mondiale sur l’enseignement supérieur. Nous proposons que cette réunion importante soit étendue à la recherche  scientifique et technique dont l’impact contribuerait à accroître les capacités d’innovation de notre pays.
34.9 Monsieur le Président, la maîtrise de l’eau constitue un enjeu majeur pour les pays africains, et son importance  pour le développement du continent s’accroîtra au cours des prochaines années. Le Mali adhère au grand programme II  concernant les sciences exactes et naturelles, dont l’un des axes d’action porte sur les dépendances à l’égard de l’eau,  les systèmes en situation de stress et les réponses de la société. Nous souhaitons que l’UNESCO nous aide à tirer parti  du Rapport mondial sur la mise en valeur des ressources en eau, notamment par la mise en œuvre et la diffusion des  modèles qui y sont élaborés. Notre pays propose l’introduction dans le programme HELP de deux bassins locaux, à  savoir le Bani et le Yamé, et d’un bassin sous-régional : le Niger. Au titre de ce même programme, le Mali fait de la  valorisation des énergies nouvelles et renouvelables un puissant moyen de développement socioéconomique.
34.10 Concernant les sciences sociales et humaines, le Mali constate que les préoccupations exprimées sont prises  en considération dans les programmes proposés par l’UNESCO. Nous recommandons cependant le renforcement des  comités nationaux d’éthique existants et l’inclusion du ROCARE dans le portefeuille de collaboration de l’UNESCO.
34.11 Mon pays suggère qu’à l’instar des pays qui sortent d’un conflit, ceux dans lesquels les conflits sont latents  bénéficient eux aussi des actions envisagées par l’UNESCO. Ceci contribuerait au renforcement de la démocratie pour  un développement durable.
34.12 Dans le domaine de la culture, le Mali adhère au Projet de programme et de budget proposé qui s’articule, pour  les deux prochaines années, autour de la promotion de la diversité culturelle par la sauvegarde du patrimoine et le  développement des expressions culturelles d’une part, et de la promotion de la cohésion sociale par l’encouragement du  pluralisme et du dialogue des cultures et l’instauration d’une culture de la paix d’autre part. Notre élection au Comité  intergouvernemental pour la protection et la promotion de la diversité des expressions culturelles apparaît éloquente à  cet égard. Mon pays invite tous les États membres de l’UNESCO à ratifier rapidement la Convention sur la protection et  la promotion de la diversité des expressions culturelles.
34.13 Mon pays, qui abrite le siège de l’Académie africaine des langues (ACALAN), institution spécialisée de l’Union  africaine, se félicite que l’Assemblée générale des Nations Unies ait proclamé 2008 « Année internationale des  langues », et se réjouit du rôle de chef de file confié à l’UNESCO pour l’organisation des activités de célébration,  auxquelles le Mali prendra part avec détermination dans le prolongement de l’Année des langues africaines. C’est  également dans ce cadre que le Mali souhaite bénéficier de l’appui de l’UNESCO pour la préservation du Fonds Amadou  Hampâté Bâ.
34.14 En conclusion, le Mali approuve le programme proposé pour les deux prochaines années. Réaffirmant son  attachement aux idéaux de l’UNESCO, il œuvrera à l’avènement d’un monde de paix et continuera à privilégier le  dialogue pour la résolution pacifique des conflits. Je vous remercie de votre aimable attention.  (Applaudissements)
35. The President:   C’est à moi de vous remercier Monsieur le Ministre. Je le fais avec grand plaisir. Je voudrais maintenant appeler  His Excellency the Honourable Dharam Gokhool, Minister of Education and Human Resources of Mauritius.
36.1 Mr Gokhool (Mauritius):   Mr President, honourable colleague ministers, distinguished guests, Excellencies, ladies and gentlemen, a very  good morning to you all. Congratulations to you, Mr President, upon your election. I am deeply honoured and extremely  pleased to be present at the 34th session of the General Conference of UNESCO. As head of the Mauritian delegation, I  bring to you, Mr President, Director-General, honourable ministers and Excellencies, warm greetings and the good  wishes of the Government and the people of Mauritius. I join the other speakers in welcoming the Republic of  Montenegro, Singapore and Palestine.
36.2 As a small island State, we share many of the global concerns highlighted in the opening speeches, as well as  during the addresses of the distinguished speakers: concerns such as underdevelopment and poverty, global warming  and environmental degradation, violence, the dangers of the digital and technological divide, the energy crunch, and the  general erosion of values in many societies, among others. These are indeed challenging times, and to deal with them  we all agree that education and investment in human resources remain our best and most effective response. We also  agree that we need to redouble our efforts and be more effective and results-oriented.
36.3 Despite all the challenges, we note some interesting progress in Africa: enrolment in the tertiary education  sector has increased from 232 students per 100,000 inhabitants to 339 between 1990-1991 and 2002-2003,  Mr President, but the supply of educated people needed for African development is still lower than that in other regions of  the world, with illiteracy, for example, standing at 61% for people over 15 years of age. On the other hand, the rural- urban divide in education has still to be bridged, while school life expectancy in Africa (some 7.6 years) remains below  the world average of 10.7 years. On the other hand, the mismatch between the education programmes and skills taught  and the constantly changing needs of the economy and society is glaring. Africa is also facing the problem of the digital  divide, and I take this opportunity to make a plea to the Director-General and UNESCO to develop focused policies and  strategies to support initiatives in this sector.
36.4 Mr President, it is encouraging to note that UNESCO is fully alive to those challenges, and is pursuing a reform  programme based on taking into consideration new priorities to meet international development goals as well as the  Millennium Development Goals (MDGs). The Medium-Term Strategy document is a clear indication that UNESCO wants  to do more and better. The efforts of the Director-General in providing more funds for UNESCO’s programme activities  are most welcome. UNESCO should continue to be creative and innovative, and more focused and driven by the need to  show tangible and measurable outcomes. I welcome the determination of UNESCO to be more in line with modern  trends of accountability and transparency as mentioned sometime earlier by the honourable Uruguayan Minister of  Education.
36.5 We need to live up to the trust placed in us by all those who are in need. We must produce tangible,  measurable, demonstrable and time-bound outcomes that contribute to the welfare and happiness of our people. We  must therefore challenge the status quo and complacency, and we must be bold and daring in our initiatives.  Mr President, it is in this spirit that Mauritius has embarked upon a new vision of a world-class quality education for all  (EFA) because our children and youth will live and work in a global village. They will be global citizens. Our reform  agenda is holistic, comprehensive and interdependent, and spans from pre-school to the university, taking on board  children with special needs and in difficult circumstances, with free education and free transport helping to democratize  access to education. To tackle the problem of the digital divide, we are implementing a school information and  technology project for both primary and secondary schools. We are also implementing a science and technology strategy  to create a science-literate citizenry.
36.6 We have come a long way in the field of early childhood care and education (ECCE) (with a gross enrolment  rate of 98% in the pre-school sector). We are implementing an integrated ECCE/ECCD (early childhood care and  development) programme which will prepare the child for school and the school for the child – in line with the EFA Global  Monitoring Report Strong Foundations: ECCE 2007. We believe that we can position Mauritius as a multidisciplinary  centre of excellence in the area of early childhood care and education.
36.7 On the cultural front, my country believes in the value and preservation of the cultural heritage of nations. We  are today very proud of the Aapravasi Ghat World Heritage Site, which bears testimony to the suffering endured by one  segment of the rainbow nation. Likewise, Mauritius wishes to honour another segment of the Mauritian people with the  nomination of the Le Morne Brabank Mountain site for inclusion on the World Heritage List. The Le Morne site is a  symbol of resistance to slavery and the fight for freedom, a symbol not only for Mauritius but for the world at large. We  would appreciate the support of all in order to commemorate that part of our history.
36.8 Mr President, we know the unfortunate fact that the majority of South African Development Community (SADC)  citizens live on less than $1 per day, and over 40% of the population lives in abject poverty. I am pleased to inform the  Conference that the proposal of our Prime Minister, Dr Honourable Navinchandra Ramgoolam, for SADC to hold its  International Consultative Conference on Poverty in Mauritius in 2008 was unanimously agreed upon. One of the goals  of the Conference is to work towards halving poverty for the SADC region by 2015.
36.9 Mr President, our term of office on the Executive Board is now over. But let me clearly state that although we are  no longer there, we will follow its work carefully. We recognize that the noble ideals encapsulated in the vision and  mission of UNESCO will be perpetuated, and the systematic efforts towards the institutionalization of development efforts  undertaken by numerous Member States, especially the most vulnerable ones, will be effectively and consistently  sustained by UNESCO.
36.10 Mr President, I wish UNESCO well and good luck, and may we reach our common destination together. Thank  you for your kind attention. Thank you very much.  (Applause)
(38.1) Mr Altwaijri (Islamic Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization – ISESCO) (translation from the Arabic):   Bismillāh ir-rahmān ir-rah īm (In the name of God, the Merciful, the Compassionate). Mr President of the General  Conference, heads of delegations, distinguished ladies and gentlemen, it is my pleasure to address this august international  Conference on behalf of the Islamic Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization (ISESCO) and I take this opportunity to  extend special salutations to my friend, His Excellency Mr Koïchiro Matsuura, the Director-General of UNESCO, for his great  interest in widening cooperation with ISESCO, giving force to the agreement signed by the two organizations and within the  framework of which we are implementing a successful programme of cooperation in areas of joint concern.
(38.2) Mr President, the world toady is suffering from a multitude of dangers, at the forefront of which are extremism,  terrorism, destructive wars, the assault on human rights and transgression of international law. This prompts us to think about  the role which education and culture might play in confronting these dangers, which threaten the stability of human societies.  Education and culture are the effective tools to confront all that corrupts human nature and destroys reason and feeling. It is  unfortunate those extremists who violate human rights and spread injustice and iniquity on earth and those who insult people’s  beliefs and ridicule their cultures and religious symbols claim that, with their aggressive acts, they are practicing freedom of  behaviour and freedom of expression. But what freedom is it which kindles hatred, sows discord and ignites animosity? Islam,  as the seal of the prophecy, affirms the eternal truth in many Quranic verses and Prophetic traditions, rejects extremism and  violence and affirms human dignity. Accordingly, ISESCO is anxious to make clear and to demonstrate these truths in many of  its educational and cultural activities. Under the auspices of His Excellency the President of the Republic of Tunisia, Zine El  Abidine Ben Ali, the Organization will convene an international conference on "Terrorism: Dimensions, Threats and  Countermeasures", in which the United Nations and Organization of the Islamic Conference will take part. Among its themes  will be one on education to prevent and counteract terrorism.
(38.3) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the responsibility of ministers of education in the nations of the world to confront  the phenomena of extremism and terrorism in all their forms is growing in pace with the increasing danger of these  phenomena, to which we absolutely cannot grant a religious or ethnic character. Terrorism has no religion, as all religions are  innocent of terrorism, outlawing it, rejecting it and condemning it. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, education in the service  of society is a collective principle over which there is no disagreement. The time has come to activate this principle and  translate it into national policy adopted by all Member States so that education and culture become effective tools for  constructive coexistence among peoples. ISESCO is striving for this in those of its programmes and activities which are  devoted to combating oppression, poverty and ignorance as the first step on the road to resisting extremism. I call upon this  esteemed Conference to grasp the vital role played by education in building a new world in which the values of justice, peace,  tolerance, coexistence and dialogue prevail, in eradicating injustice, extremism and terrorism by the roots and addressing this  grave issue in its proper context, without making baseless accusations that Islam is a religion which prompts extremism and  encourages terrorism. This is certainly inconsistent with the shining truth and conflicts totally with the spirit, tolerance and  noble aims of this religion. Islam is a religion of justice, peace and tolerance, spreading love, guidance and knowledge. It calls  for the brotherhood of man and respect for human dignity. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ISESCO is working earnestly  with its sister organization, UNESCO, to propagate these values. I thank you for your attention and wish this Conference  success. As-salāmu ‘alaikum wa-rahmatu llāhi wa-barakātuh (Peace and the mercy and blessings of God be upon you),  (Applause)
(40) Mr Bousnina (Arab League Educational, Cultural and Scientific Organization – ALECSO)   (translation from the Arabic):   Bismillāh ir-rahmān ir-rah īm (In the name of God, the Merciful, the Compassionate). Your Excellency Mr George  Anastassopoulos, President of the Conference, Your Excellency Mr Koïchiro Matsuura, Director-General of UNESCO,  Excellencies, ladies and gentlemen, allow me at the outset to extend my warmest congratulations to His Excellency Mr  Anastassopoulos upon his election as President of the current session of our General Conference. I wish him every success in  managing the proceedings of this session. I should likewise not omit on this occasion to warmly commend the successful  efforts over the previous period of Dr Musa bin Jaafar bin Hassan, former President of the General Conference. From this  podium, it is my pleasure to add my voice and that of the Arab League Educational, Cultural and Scientific Organization  (ALECSO) to all those who have preceded me in praising the role of UNESCO and affirming the continuation of its vital  mission in a world riven by ongoing threats to international security and peace, in which a large part of humankind suffer from  imbalances in development and the reality of poverty and illiteracy, and at a time in which tendencies to withdraw into the self  and particular identities are struggling simultaneously with calls for dialogue among civilizations and cultures. In the ocean of  threats we are facing, some hope remains that education can further the betterment of humanity, beginning by liberating it  from the grip of ignorance and achieving the enlightenment of thought and honing of emotional life by means of the principles  of coexistence, dialogue with the other and respect for his right to difference and individuality. In this context, we take part in  and support UNESCO’s work in the field of education for all (EFA) and its initiatives regarding learning to live together,  intercultural dialogue and respect for diversity. It should be no surprise that the Arabs and ALECSO are in harmony with  UNESCO as regards such goals. We in the Arab world believe that universal education for all sections of society, developing  education systems in the direction of total quality and openness to the other are the means to the comprehensive development  of our societies, the strengthening of our capacities to compete economically and culturally in the current and future  environment of globalization and adapting to the new global conditions, with the aim of integrating fully and equally into the  new global system. It was from this awareness that the resolution of the Khartoum Summit of 2006 – the Arab summit  concerned with drawing up the plan for the development of education in the Arab world – arose. In cooperation with the  Secretariat-General, this labour was crowned at the Riyadh Summit of 2007. We anticipate the final form to be ratified at the  forthcoming summit at Damascus in 2008, God willing. It may be helpful, as the General Conference discusses at this session  the Director-General’s report on progress in the field of education for all, for me to make reference to the plan for the  development of education in the Arab world, the key goals of which are ensuring the right to education for all without  discrimination or differentiation and the guarantee of quality education. We hope that the citizen of tomorrow shall be able to  coexist in the larger human society and enter the age of globalization, as well as being able to acquire, handle and produce  knowledge. It is a source of pleasure to me that UNESCO contributed advice and technical assistance in drawing up this plan.  I should like to thank my dear friend, Mr Koïchiro Matsuura, and his Organization’s experts for their valuable contribution. I  should also like to praise UNESCO’s contribution to the updating of the Arab plan and Arab strategy for science and culture.  We have likewise relied upon the Organization, as the living conscience of the world, to double the praiseworthy efforts it is  making to safeguard the Arab heritage in occupied Palestine and save it from the dangers threatening it due to the practices of  the occupation, particularly in the city of Jerusalem and specifically in the vicinity of al-Aqs à Mosque. The believe that the role  of UNESCO remains fundamental in supporting educational institutions in Palestine and the occupied Syrian Golan, as well as  in Iraq , so that these institutions might continue to advance their educational and cultural role despite the difficult living and  security conditions around them. Our hope in UNESCO as the depository of the conscience of humanity remains great indeed  and is still alive among us in the Arab world. This hope of ours proceeds from the lofty principles upon which this Organization  was founded and our commitment to the common universal values of humanity around which we gather. In conclusion, we  trust that our hope shall be fulfilled, for therein lies the welfare of all humanity, if it wishes to agree upon a common word. As- salāmu ‘alaikum wa-rahmatu llāhi wa-barakātuh (Peace and the mercy and blessings of God be upon you).  (Applause)
41. The President:   Many thanks, Mr Bousnina. I would like to ask Professor Thomas Rosswall, Executive Director of the  International Council for Science to take the floor, de prendre la parole.
42.1 Mr Rosswall (International Council for Science – ICSU):   Thank you, Mr President, Excellencies, ladies and gentlemen. The Nobel Peace Prize for 2007 has been  awarded to the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC). IPCC is one of the many examples of the  importance of providing scientific understanding as a necessary basis for sound policy-making. The International Council  for Science (lCSU), together with UNESCO’s Intergovernmental Oceanographic Commission (IOC) and the World  Meteorological Organization (WMO), is a sponsor of the World Climate Research Programme (WCRP), which provides  the international planning and coordination of scientific research that underpins the IPCC assessments, in addition to  partnering UNESCO in developing the Global Climate Observing System. We thus welcome the intersectoral Task Force  on Global Climate Change set up by the Director-General.
42.2 In February 2005, ICSU and UNESCO held a press conference to launch the Millennium Ecosystem  Assessment (MA), which focused on the importance of ecosystem services for human well-being. Together with  UNESCO and the United Nations University, ICSU is identifying the gaps in scientific understanding on linked ecological  and social systems based on the important findings of the Millennium Ecosystem Assessment. This will hopefully lead to  a major new activity led by ICSU and UNESCO to bring together the best natural and social scientists to address the  importance of ecosystems for human well-being.
42.3 ICSU welcomes the overall review of Major Programmes II and III, and considers this an excellent opportunity to  refocus on what is the appropriate role for the “S” in UNESCO. ICSU submitted written and oral statements to the Overall  Review Committee, and we are pleased that most of our views were taken up by it and included in its report. We are  confident that the review findings will provide necessary guidance for the development of a strategy for the future of the  UNESCO science sectors. ICSU pledges its support to the implementation of the recommendations in any way that  UNESCO may find useful.
42.4 Mr President, one of ICSU’s key new priorities is a programme to address the science of natural and human- induced hazards. We note with appreciation the leadership role of IOC in developing early warning systems for tsunamis.  There is, however, an urgent need to expand the research on hazards, and ICSU is now taking the lead in an effort that  will tap into the best scientific knowledge in both natural and social sciences to address this crucially important area.  UNESCO can be a major contributor to such an effort, especially if it is possible to strengthen collaboration between the  Natural and Social and Human Sciences Sectors.
42.5 Finally, Mr President, I would like to stress the importance of regional collaboration. ICSU has recently  established regional offices in Pretoria, Kuala Lumpur and Rio de Janeiro. A similar office will be established in and for  the Arab region. The offices will ensure that the science communities in developing countries have a stronger voice and  fully influence the international agenda setting. The regional offices will also strengthen the involvement of scientists from  the region in ICSU programmes. We are working closely with the UNESCO Regional Bureaux for Science in Nairobi,  Jakarta and Montevideo, and earlier this year we had a major conference for academies of science in Eastern and  South-Eastern Europe, in cooperation with the UNESCO Offices in Venice and Moscow.
42.6 It is my hope that ICSU-UNESCO collaboration can be strengthened as part of the next UNESCO Medium-Term  Strategy. A new framework agreement must take due account of the priorities of both organizations. Much more can, and  should, be done. On behalf of ICSU, I pledge our support to make this happen. The ICSU mission is to strengthen  international science for the benefit of society, which provides an excellent platform for the development of joint efforts  that will also be of benefit to the science communities in all Member States of UNESCO. Thank you.  (Applause)  Announcement  Annonce  Anuncio  Сообщение    通知
43. The President:   Thank you very much. We are coming to the end of this morning’s meeting, the ninth plenary meeting. I have to  remind you that the plenary meeting will resume on Monday morning at 10 a.m. Mr Millward, the Secretary of the  General Conference, has asked me to remind you that it should be at 10 o’clock sharp, and I told him that it would not be  necessary, quite a few colleagues arrive well on time. We will continue the general policy debate, and we will have two  heads of State to welcome here. I would like to wish you a good lunch and a bonne fin de week-end. Alors je vous  remercie beaucoup. On se revoit lundi.  The meeting rose at 1.05 p.m.  La séance est levée à 13 h 05  Se levanta la sesión a las 13.05  Заседание закрывается в 13.05  א א١,٠٥א   会议于 13 时 05 分结束