(1) The President of the 33rd session of the General Conference (Mr Musa Hassan, Oman)  (translation from the Arabic):   Bismillāh ir-rahmān ir-rah īm (In the name of God, the Merciful, the Compassionate), Your Excellencies, heads of  delegations, Your Excellency, Chairperson of the Executive Board, Your Excellency, Director-General, Your Excellencies  Ambassadors, friends, colleagues, representatives of governmental and non-governmental organizations, journalists, ladies  and gentlemen, it is my pleasure at the outset to welcome you warmly and to take the occasion of ‘Īd-ul-Fiţr (feast breaking the  Ramadan fast) to extend my felicitations to all Muslims. I hope that all our lives may be filled with love, goodwill and blessing  and that the days of all peoples be as feast days. In welcoming you, I should like first of all to declare the official opening of  the proceedings of the 34th session of the General Conference. I also take this opportunity to welcome the accession of  Montenegro to this international family of UNESCO and wish them every success. I also welcome the return of Singapore to  the Organization after a long absence. The international family is thereby made more complete. Now, I hope that our time  together shall be a pleasant one, to which purpose we shall listen to the UNESCO Orchestra, conducted by Jorge Lozano- Corres, playing part of Joseph Haydn’s oratorio, The Creation.  (Musical interlude)  (Applause)   :א ٢,١  ، א ، ، ، א א א א، א אא.א א ، א א א  .א
(2.1) The President (translation from the Arabic):   Thank you. On your behalf, I should like to thank the UNESCO Orchestra for that fine music. As you know, UNESCO  is not only about documents but about art, music and joy, too. As a wise man said, music is the message written by the soul in  the ink of emotion which language cannot write.
(2.2)  Ladies and gentlemen, permit me to pass from music to lament. With great sadness, it is my duty to announce the  death of a number of senior figures, both men and women, who played an important part in the life and history of UNESCO  and have sadly departed from us. I should like to commemorate two of my predecessors in the post of President of the  General Conference who have passed away. Everyone will remember Ms Moserová, President of the 30th session of the  General Conference in 1999, who was known for the great work she carried out with intelligence and commitment. She was an  outstanding example to us all and especially to me in my position as President of the General Conference. Everyone will  remember Ms Moserová and the high-minded values she personified to us all. I should also like to commemorate Mr Torben  Krogh, President of the 28th session of the General Conference in 1995, who passed away recently. He, too, was an example  to me in the task I have carried out for the last two years. He set high standards for the work and his term of office was marked  by such achievements as the working group he set up to examine the structure and function of the General Conference. His  work was the foundation for the current progress in relations between the three organs and he will be remembered in every  nook and cranny of UNESCO. We shall remember both Ms Moserová and Mr Torben Krogh for their humanity and unique
5  achievements. I call upon you all to stand for a minute’s silence for the souls of all the individuals who have passed away since  the last session of the General Conference.  The Conference observes one minute’s silence.   :א ٣,١ א،א،א  א.، א  .א،א אא.אאא ٣,٢ ، א א ، א א ، ،א אא א ، א אא،،א א א אאא ، א א:א א אא .:، א אא אאאאא. אא א אאא.א אא א ،.א ، א א א א،  .א
(3.1) The President (translation from the Arabic):   Thank you very much. Life is a matter of arrivals and departures and I wish a long life to you all. Now permit me to  deliver my address. Thank you.
(3.2) Bismillāh ir-rahmān ir-rah īm (In the name of God, the Merciful, the Compassionate). Your Excellencies, heads of  delegations, Your Excellency, Chairperson of the Executive Board, Your Excellency, Director-General, distinguished  participants, distinguished guests, ladies and gentlemen, it is said that souls from the other world descend to our world to  materialize into bodies which please them and to act as they like. One day the spirit of Odysseus, the hero of The Odyssey,  came but did not find what he desired and protested: “All the beautiful bodies and great deeds have been taken by others and  no share of them remains for me.” An unknown voice answered him, “No, rather have you been left the best share of all bodies  and deeds. It has been given to you to pass into the body of an ordinary citizen to perform ordinary work for an ordinary  reward”. Here I am today, the ordinary person appearing before you two years after you placed your confidence in me, to  return to you the charge of the Secretariat to pass on to another as the hands of time move inexorably on. At first, I felt your  trust to be heavy and burdensome yet enjoyable at the same time. However, I drew strength from your confidence and said, as  an optimist would, that I shall follow the path of this world only once. Any good I can do and any service I can render to  humanity I shall do now. I will not be derelict or remiss, as I shall follow this path only once.
(3.3) Excellencies, ladies and gentlemen, this is an opportunity to draw attention to the understanding and coordination  prevailing between the three organs of UNESCO in work and in execution. The desire of my good friend the Chairperson of  the Executive Board, Zhang Xinsheng, for consultation before and during the convening of the Board, which has been a  feature of our work for these two years, springs from a shared conviction of the importance of such understanding in the  service of the Organization. I must also congratulate him for his outstanding performance and first-class management of the  proceedings of the Executive Board, as confirmed by the excellent achievements. These contacts were complemented by the  regular meetings with my good friend Koïchiro Matsuura, the Director-General, to talk about most of the issues requiring  discussion and thought, on the basis of complete belief in the importance of the work to achieve and foster the common goals  of all Member States. I bear witness to his efforts and self-sacrifice in working to strengthen the Organization’s presence,  bringing the number of Member States to 193 with the accession of Montenegro and the return of Singapore. On the basis of
29 C/Resolution 87, which called for the participation of the permanent delegates in the preparation of the Draft Programme  and Budget, I invited the permanent delegates of UNESCO Member States to take part in formulating the Draft Medium-Term  Strategy, and Draft Programme and Budget to complement the consultations conducted as a matter of course by the Director- General with the National Commissions. I am satisfied that what has been achieved will lead to satisfactory results but nothing  would have been achieved without the response of the Director-General and staff, all of whom have contributed to the success  of this unique experiment. Within the framework of reform and following in the footsteps of my predecessor, Ambassador
8  Professor Michael Omolewa, I have monitored implementation of the recommendations concerning the relations between the  three organs of UNESCO, and in particular recommendation 21 on rotation of the membership of the Executive Board. You will  find all the details of this in the document submitted to the General Conference.
(3.4) Ladies and gentlemen, reform is an ongoing process. The achievements in this area during Koïchiro Matsuura’s term  as Director-General deserve full praise and gratitude and must be continued without interruption for, as the head of the  Australian delegation described the process at the 23rd session of the General Conference, it is like riding a bicycle – if you  stop moving forward, you fall off. In this context, I should like to affirm the need for international programmes with substantial  returns and backing, along the lines of the Silk Road: Roads of Dialogue programme and the Culture of Peace programme and  campaigns to save international cultural and natural sites threatened by destruction in Africa, Asia and the Pacific, Latin  America and the Caribbean, as has been done in the case of the antiquities of Nubia, Venice and elsewhere.
(3.5) Excellencies, ladies and gentlemen, UNESCO was described by a former Director-General, Mr René Maheu, as “a  human adventure” and UNESCO’s ideology is also special, it is an ideology of human rights, to the extent of considering these  as the fundamental pillar of understanding among people and a condition for ensuring justice, peace and dignity. As I stand  before you today, it seems essential for me to review the challenges facing the Organization. On diagnosing these challenges,  we find that some of them are inherited and have no radical solution, while others are new and attributable to ourselves, with  characteristics and features of which we were previously unaware. The most important lesson I have learned is that UNESCO  must be bolder in confronting the challenges and more careful and precise in defining its goals and activities. The greatest  challenge lies in education. Despite UNESCO having passed its sixtieth anniversary there are, unfortunately, still tens of  millions of children and adults either wholly or partially illiterate. Although the primary responsibility for this situation rests upon  those Member States in which this problem is critical, UNESCO must not let that be an obstacle to carrying out its educational  and humanitarian duties. The Organization’s stated aim is the formation of universal principles, values and standards agreed  upon and followed by all. It must make education a pillar and point of departure. This is our mission and these are our tools.  Talking about education means talking about the teacher. Education must be in harmony with the age and the teacher must be  conscious of the nature of the age. The teacher must enjoy freedom of thought and expression, without fear or threat. The link  between the teacher and the taught is the most important means of building awareness, conscience, will and capacity among  future generations. In this connection the Algerian writer, Turki Rajeh Ammara, said “the success of a teacher is not measured  by what he knows but by the extent of his ability to make others know”. Ladies and gentlemen, many regions in Asia and Latin  America and several countries have witnessed economic and educational leaps forward. Africa though, where we inhale the  fragrant scent of history and from the depths of whose soil humanity emerged, has been and remains UNESCO’s priority. We  demand that the authentic and ancient African wisdom be saved from oblivion and placed in a framework which can protect it  through education and make it into a creative form of energy capable of generating what is good, beautiful, knowledgeable and  aware. The late African sage, Amadou Hampaté Bâ, gave us warning when he said that when an old man dies in Africa, a  library is burnt to the ground because he could not transmit his knowledge and wisdom effectively to his children and  grandchildren. However, by showing solidarity with the inhabitants of this continent, we shall be able to save these great  libraries from destruction and make them a light to illuminate the path of our shared future.
(3.6) Excellencies, ladies and gentlemen, there is much work and talking ahead of us. Modernity has not eliminated  disasters and modernism has not put an end to disease. In the twenty-first century, one fifth of humanity is on the verge of  starvation and poverty and the map of the rich and poor remains as it has been: a richer North and poorer South. The figures  are terrifying in this area. In this world’s South, some 10 million children below the age of 5 die of famine and malnutrition.  There is alarm over how to ensure food for the population of the planet whose numbers will reach eight billion in 2025. Reports  indicate that there are some two billion people suffering from malnutrition and nutritional deficiency; 70% of women in sub- Saharan Africa suffer from chronic anaemia due to malnutrition. United States Senator George McGovern said that none of the  wars throughout history has killed so many nor has any crisis spread so much disease, pestilence and plague in any year as  starvation has in our own times. A wise man said “Where starvation is common, there is no respect for the law and where  there is no respect for the law, starvation is common”.
(3.7) Excellencies, ladies and gentlemen, do I need to point out that the pillar of society is woman? Should I restate what  has already been said about there being no development without the development of woman’s role? Am I claiming special  knowledge when I say that what demonstrates the level of a society’s civilization is the level of woman’s civilization therein?  Unfortunately, even in our time it is necessary to keep on and on reminding. The great writer Gibran Khalil Gibran said, “After  the death of my mother, I lost a loving hand with which I used to dry the sweat of the journey”. It is an act of loyalty to woman  and acknowledgement of her role in our lives for us to support her endeavour to enjoy the same educational, civil, political and  cultural rights as all citizens, without discrimination. In current circumstances, when the international community is focusing on  stimulating the dialogue between civilizations and cultures, the dialogue with woman within each society will impart to that  dialogue a deep, practical dimension. The poet William Wordsworth (1770-1850) wrote, “For thou art with me here upon the  banks of this fair river; thou my dearest Friend, my dear, dear Friend; and in thy voice I catch the language of my former heart,  and read my former pleasures in the shooting lights of thy wild eyes. Oh! yet a little while may I behold in thee what I was  once … I address these lines to the women attending this Conference from all around the world and say to them, may you be  blessed, O woman: mother, lover, sister, wife and friend, because you are life.
(3.8) We in UNESCO dream of a better world and our dream remains with us despite the gloom and despondency around  today. It is our lot to cling to our dreams. We hold fast to our choices and are proud of them. Tirelessly, we endeavour to  secure acceptance of cultural diversity, freedom and democracy. We are clear in our minds about the malevolent relationship  between ignorance and deprivation, a relationship which has caused the emergence of many of the illnesses of the age, such  as the culture of violence, religious and political extremism and blind terrorism. They are unbounded dangers, blindly tearing  societies apart at the core. They are phenomena which have re-emerged after the world thought they had disappeared, never  to return. They have returned because the approach of dialogue and conciliation is under threat from the belief of some that  the Arab and Islamic countries have not yet entered the twenty-first century and that the values of justice, democracy and  human rights are limited to their own culture. I believe that this attitude arises from an ignorance of other cultures. In the words  of the Norwegian author Hans Herbjørnsrud, “Not only are such claims untrue, they also represent a danger, since they  support a discourse based on conflict”. Aware of the gravity of these challenges, we in UNESCO endeavour to confront them,  debate them and think of ways of addressing them. We strive for mechanisms which will dynamize the language of the intellect  and reiterate the demand for liberty as a guarantee of tolerance and communication, free the self from its own excesses,  remove the trend to bigotry and extremism and move towards a better tomorrow for humanity working together, liberated from  its sin and wickedness and advancing by itself towards wisdom, virtue and progress. More than 1,000 years ago, the Ikhwan  al-Safa (“Brethren of Purity”), a group of reformers from Basra in Iraq, called for bigotry to be opposed and appealed for
9  openness saying, “The higher man is one who is hostile to no science, is prejudiced against no sect and would banish none of  the writings of philosophers and sages”. As regards cultural plurality, they described lofty principles, saying they were to be  found in “… the man who is experienced, virtuous and intelligent, as if Arab in religion, Persian in origin, Iraqi in manners,  Hebrew in nature, Christian in conduct, Syrian in devotion, Indian in vision, Chinese in wisdom, Greek in knowledge, a Sufi in  way of life and an angel in respect of morality”.
(3.9) Ladies and gentlemen, this is the age of globalization. No matter how distant and different they may be, nations  communicate and connect, influence and are themselves influenced. It is impossible for any human society to escape the  impact of the problems of the modern world. We are in an age in which an individual can no longer live in isolation from others,  even if he or she wanted to. We are in a world which imposes its developments and changes upon all by virtue of or because  of globalization. People’s privacy and indifference are invaded; they are everywhere pursued. The future of all has become  entwined in a manner that permits no separation. The survival of all has become dependent on the ability to steer our world in  a way which will ensure continuation of the fundamentals of human existence on earth. In Chicago, when some 12,000  physicians and researchers came together at the largest interscience conference on anti-microbial agents and chemotherapy,  they noted the impact of global warming on diseases and epidemics. International non-governmental organizations taking part  in the conference criticized the continuing negativism and unwillingness to intervene on the part of the States Parties to the  United Nations Convention to Combat Desertification which emerged from the Earth Summit hosted by the city of Rio de  Janeiro, Brazil, in 1992. However, this reading of the future is always ignored. In the world of today, people emigrate and are  obliged to migrate. The problem of refugees is worsening and the waves of the displaced are increasing. While it is true that  addressing the refugee problem is the task of the United Nations, we at UNESCO can contribute morally, educationally and  culturally in this area. Likewise, peoples suffering from conflicts in many parts of the world – Palestine, Somalia, Afghanistan,  Iraq and elsewhere – seek protection against extremism, racism and hatred, demand justice and fairness and look to the  international community to alleviate their sufferings.
(3.10) Ladies and gentlemen, it has been said that man is the only creature who is born crying and who lives complaining. If  our words are loud with complaint, my great hope is that we shall continue, through this Conference in which an elite group of  educators, scholars and politicians are participating, to strive to build the road to life and coexistence. Your Organization,  UNESCO, shares the international community’s increasing alarm and is working diligently to develop the ethics of dialogue by  enhancing knowledge of cultural, ethnic, linguistic and religious diversity in order to build awareness, conscience, will and  capacity among future generations. The spirit of cooperation, understanding and listening to the other is created by an open  mind and heart, both guided by the words of the Anglo-Austrian philosopher, Karl Popper, “You may be right and I may be  wrong, and with a little effort we may get nearer to the truth”. And in the Middle Ages, Imam al-Shafi’i, one of Islam’s leading  authorities said, “My opinion may be correct but has the possibility of error and the opinion of another may be wrong but has  the possibility of truth”.
(3.11) Ladies and gentlemen, this is the age of the media in a multiplicity of forms The planet has become transparent and it  is difficult to keep knowledge hidden. The media has a vital and active role and may be the key player in supporting and  encouraging dialogue to embrace the entire spectrum of humanity. The media is a force which can transcend divisions just as  it can feed them. As Pascal said, “It is a strange justice that is bounded by a river: truth on this side of the Pyrenees, error on  the other”. Perhaps one of humanity’s challenges today is the use of the media and information technology revolution (for  example, the Internet) to spread crime, traffic in children and drugs and promote acts of terrorism. The Internet ought to be a  new means for the democratization of information and knowledge. With its tremendous capacity to transcend geographic,  social and cultural borders, it has become a tool for freedom of expression. The Buddha said, “Renounce anger and doing ill  unto others, forsake scorn and bad intent; feed not resentment in yourself nor against those who would do ill unto you”.
(3.12) Ladies and gentlemen, it is said that love is like a beautiful flower and that loyalty is the dewdrops upon it. I have loyal  words for all who have shared the responsibility with me and helped me in the Secretariat. I have observed their dedication to  duty and it is my duty to single out for thanks the Secretary of the General Conference, Mr Michael Millward, and his deputy,  Mr Luis Salamanques. I should be remiss if I failed to mention the previous Secretary, Ms Møller, Dr Ali Zaid, my secretary  Ms Moshy Chassama, my executive assistant Ms Sahar Al Tabbal, Ms Irma Gonzalez, the drivers Ahmed and Hamid Ajit and  members of the Permanent Delegation of the Sultanate of Oman to UNESCO. I should also thank the translators and  simultaneous interpreters whose workload increased because of my insistence on speaking Arabic out of a sense of duty and  responsibility. I should like to mention the names of all members of the Secretariat but time does not permit. I hope that those  who have momentarily slipped my mind but whom I shall never forget will excuse me. As has been said, Proficiency comes  slowly, while life passes quickly. You learn little and forget much.
(3.13) Excellencies, ladies and gentlemen, today, as I look back over the two-year journey, I feel satisfaction. I acted and  ventured in the execution of my convictions because I appreciated the responsibility which you placed on my shoulders. I find  that it was, in truth, short when measured against what I had hoped to achieve and my desire to learn from you. The hours and  the days have passed quickly but were rich with incident and experience. As I am a son of Oman, I must restate my loyalty to  the land where my first cries when born made such a noise. And loyalty would not and could not be complete without  extending to His Majesty Sultan Qaboos bin Sa’id, Sultan of Oman – may God protect him and his subjects – my gratitude,  appreciation and loyalty, for it is by his graciousness that I am here before you. I wish to express my love of France, the land of  liberty, equality and fraternity, where I have spent more than half my life and where my children were born, lived in its shade  and drank from its pure waters – this magnificent country and great, cultured people which has embraced UNESCO, the home  of culture, and on whose soil many races and cultures live in tolerance and harmony. Out of honour and respect, I give you  France!
(3.14) Excellencies, ladies and gentlemen, Aristotle said that the end purpose of all action is happiness. I conclude my  address with the words of the Arab writer, Mustafa al-Manfalouti, “If it is true what people say about happiness, goodness,  delight and contentment in life, my happiness would be to come across one day on life’s path a friend who shows me true  affection and to whom I show the same, someone of noble heart who bears no resentment and stores no deceit, who speaks  in private as in the company of others, someone of noble affection who loves only virtue”. Such is the happiness I hope and  search for. Thank you.  (Applause)   :א ٤ א،א  א.א، אא  .،א
(4) The President (translation from the Arabic):   Thank you very much. I apologize for having spoken at length. I now give the floor to His Excellency the Chairperson  of the Executive Board.
5.1 The Chairperson of the Executive Board (Mr Zhang, China):   Mr President of the General Conference, Mr Director-General of UNESCO, honourable delegates, respected  ministers, Excellencies, representatives of the observer missions to UNESCO, representatives of our dear NGO  community and the media, ladies and gentlemen, it is a great pleasure and a very distinguished honour for me to  welcome you all warmly to the 34th session of the General Conference of UNESCO. Allow me also to express my  heartfelt welcome in my mother tongue:  (The speaker continues in Chinese)
(5.2) (translation from the Chinese) It is a great honour and privilege for me, in my capacity as Chairperson of the Executive  Board, to extend a heartfelt welcome to all delegates to the 34th session of the General Conference and to renew to you the  assurances of my highest consideration.  (The speaker continues in English)
5.3 Your Excellencies, ladies and gentlemen, I am privileged and honoured to do so on behalf of the Executive  Board and all its 58 Members representing all the regions of the world. I wish you a rewarding stay here and a successful  mission at UNESCO Headquarters in Paris. To those of you coming to the General Conference for the first time, I should  like to extend my special greetings and inform you all, should it be required, that the Executive Board remains at the  disposal of the General Conference for its entire duration. I should like to express my sincere gratitude and indeed pay  tribute to all those esteemed personalities who have given of their time and offered their services for the promotion of the  noble causes of UNESCO.
5.4 Distinguished representatives, since the last session of this Conference two years ago, UNESCO’s family of  nations has grown. Montenegro became a new Member in March this year, while Singapore rejoined our Organization  just last week. This signals confidence in the relevance of UNESCO. We can now proudly say that, with its 193-strong  membership, our Organization is a truly universal one within the United Nations system.
5.5 Throughout the past two years, the Executive Board has been laying the groundwork for this Conference. As its  Chairman, I sincerely hope that the preparations we have undertaken on your behalf will serve you well and will facilitate  your own very important deliberations.
5.6 I was entrusted with the weighty task of chairing the Executive Board in 2006-2007. During this time, our Board  has concentrated its efforts on implementing all the resolutions with which you entrusted us at the 33rd session of the  General Conference. The Board was also faced with several daunting challenges and much intense activity. However,  we took these challenges as opportunities for us to improve the manner in which we work. And we also had a taste of the  real relevance of our Organization. Now, I can report to you solemnly and clearly that the Executive Board has completed  all the tasks conferred on it by the General Conference at its 33rd session, and we have successfully met those daunting  challenges. Our Executive Board has adopted over 220 decisions, all by consensus, and with no recourse to voting. This  was only possible because of the total cooperation among all the Members of the Board and the extremely close  cooperation we have had with your good self, Mr President, Dr Musa bin Jaafar bin Hassan, and with the Director- General, Mr Matsuura, and the entire Secretariat. For this, I should like to take the opportunity to express my sincere  thanks to you, Mr President and Mr Director-General, and to all of you.
5.7 Excellencies, ladies and gentlemen, this session of the General Conference is taking place at an unusually  important moment in time for our Organization. We are celebrating the accomplishments of the first 60 years of our  Organization’s history. In the Orient, we regard these 60 years as a cycle of natural life. This represents the end of one  age and great hope at the beginning of the next. Our challenge is to keep pace with the times and to adapt to this fast- changing world.
5.8 During this General Conference, dear representatives, you will examine the Draft Medium-Term Strategy for
2008-2013 (34 C/4 Draft). This document is supposed to be UNESCO’s beacon to the world at the global, regional and  country levels, and is a calling card to all other United Nations agencies. That is why the vision, overarching goals,  strategy, policy and programmes you are going to examine are so decisive for the future of this Organization. You will  also take a decision, based on our recommendations for the Draft Programme and Budget for 2008-2009 (34 C/5 Draft),  to ensure that we have a multisectoral, action-oriented and results-based Organization that has pride of place within the  United Nations family and that will respond to the needs of each region and all Member States. We are also continuously  reminded of the ever-present deadline that awaits us just two short years after the completion of the next Medium-Term  Strategy: the attainment of the Millennium Development Goals.
5.9 Excellencies, ladies and gentlemen, our Organization, UNESCO, and its purpose remain. The insightfulness and  far-sightedness of our founding fathers still ring true today and continue to guide us. UNESCO is needed, indeed now  more than ever before. This is so for three reasons I should like to share with you here.
5.10 First, increasing globalization brings both positive and less beneficial realities to the fore. On the one hand, the  world has become an increasingly smaller global village where we can share and experience the riches and diversity that  life has to offer. On the other hand, greater globalization unfortunately brings not only uncertainty, but also an
11  increasingly large gap between those who have and those who remain in desperate need. Therefore, UNESCO’s role to  build peace rather than keep peace is surely a more proactive one and its impact is more a long-term one. Our  Organization’s moral and humanitarian role should be really high on the international agenda so as to give globalization a  more human face and to make this world more balanced.
5.11 Secondly, with the advent of the era of knowledge societies and the increase in the culture of innovation,  UNESCO’s intellectual role, especially in promoting education and science and technology for further development, and  also the culture of diversity, should be stronger than ever before. Learning, understanding and sharing remain the best  means to promote human prosperity, and, above all, to provide answers for the future.
5.12 Thirdly and finally, while both the United Nations and UNESCO have just celebrated their 60th anniversary, and  in the context of increased United Nations reforms, UNESCO’s unique approach to tackling global challenges through a  multidisciplinary and intersectoral prism will be increasingly called upon. Also, the need for UNESCO and its ability to  adapt to change, thus keeping pace with the times, have been constantly driven by its unique structure, typified by the  tripod of three organs, the large number of Permanent Delegations and the huge network of National Commissions,  which brings the public and the private NGOs and civil society together in synergy. Therefore, I believe, and I hope you  will agree with me, distinguished delegates, that UNESCO is needed more than ever before. UNESCO should be and  can be more useful. UNESCO’s mandate for the wide diffusion of culture and the education of humanity for justice, liberty  and peace in a spirit of mutual assistance and concern still remains essential today.
5.13 Finally, allow me to ask you: What is a world of peace without development? And what is development if it is not  sustainable? Here, UNESCO, as a laboratory of ideas and as a truly universal think tank, can achieve greatness, but  only with your enduring cooperation and through the cooperation of all of us, especially intergovernmental cooperation.
5.14 Distinguished representatives, Excellencies, ladies and gentlemen, the tasks before you in the coming weeks  are extremely important. Your role is an essential one – ensuring that UNESCO, our beloved Organization, remains  relevant to the needs of its Members and valued as a key contributor to world peace, common development and  international cooperation throughout the world.
5.15 On behalf of all the Members of the Executive Board, and in my own name, let me wish you a very fruitful  Conference filled with enriching dialogue and exchange, and the successful accomplishment of your vital work. Thank  you for your attention.  (Applause)   :א ٦,١ אא  א א.א، א ،،א א  .א
(6.1) The President (translation from the Arabic):   Thank you very much, Your Excellency, Chairperson of the Board, for such an incisive address. I now give the  platform to His Excellency the Director-General, Koïchiro Matsuura.  (The President continues in English)
6.2 Mr Director-General, you have the floor.
7.1 The Director-General:   Mr President of the General Conference, Mr Chairman of the Executive Board, distinguished ministers,  Excellencies, ladies and gentlemen, it is my great pleasure and honour to welcome you to the 34th session of  UNESCO’s General Conference. In greeting you today – for the fourth time and halfway through my second mandate –  I believe that we have reached a turning point for the Organization and indeed, for the United Nations system as a whole.
7.2 Over the past two years, I have vigorously continued the task I began in 1999. In close consultation with the  President of the General Conference and the Chairman of the Executive Board, I have pursued my internal reforms,  focusing the action of the Organization on its priorities, and rationalizing and strengthening UNESCO’s presence on the  ground. Certainly, more remains to be done. But I know that our efforts to renew and adapt our methods of work have  begun to bear fruit.
7.3 UNESCO is now in a position to engage decisively – yet without abandoning its unique mandate – in United  Nations efforts to “Deliver as One” in order to achieve international development goals, including the Millennium  Development Goals. Day by day, our legitimacy as a strategic actor at the global level and on the ground receives  greater recognition. You, the Member States, have demonstrated your renewed confidence in me to carry this work  forward.
7.4 The first mark of this confidence is the Executive Board’s unanimous approval of the Draft Programme and  Budget for 2008-2009 (34 C/5 Draft), with a nominal growth of 3.4%. This would break – and I hope lastingly – the  damaging cycle of zero nominal growth that UNESCO has had to face for three biennia. It is certainly a good sign for the  future.
7.5 That future is outlined in the new Draft Medium-Term Strategy (34 C/4 Draft), which defines, up to 2013, the  framework of UNESCO’s activities in all its fields of competence and at every level – global, regional and national. It  firmly sets our action on new foundations, and readjusts our priorities according to the imperatives and challenges of the  coming years. At once more focused and results-oriented, the new UNESCO roadmap will enable us to demonstrate in a  concrete way our added value, and to fulfil our role effectively within United Nations country teams. If this strategy is to
12  yield real results each biennium, and if the Organization is to accomplish its global mission and meet its obligations at the  country level in the framework of the United Nations reform, then it will need the appropriate resources for the task. I  hope that you will continue to show your confidence in the future by offering such support.  (The Director-General continues in French)
7.6 Monsieur le Président de la Conférence générale, Monsieur le Président du Conseil exécutif, Excellences,  Mesdames et Messieurs, Je suis aussi très heureux et fier de saluer dans cette enceinte l’arrivée d’un nouvel État  membre, le Monténégro, et le retour de Singapour, qui rejoint l’Organisation après 22 années d’absence. En hissant  leurs drapeaux demain aux côtés de ceux des autres États membres, le Monténégro et Singapour concrétiseront  pleinement la vocation universelle de l’UNESCO, dont elle tire sa force et sa légitimité. Avec 193 États membres et six  Membres associés, l’UNESCO est aujourd’hui l’institution du système des Nations Unies qui compte le plus grand  nombre d’États membres. Je veux voir dans cette progression continue vers l’universalité une nouvelle marque de la  confiance que la communauté internationale place dans notre Organisation.
7.7 Il en est de même du nombre sans précédent de chefs d’État et de gouvernement qui ont accepté notre  invitation à participer à cette session. Je suis particulièrement honoré de vous annoncer la présence ce matin du  Président bulgare, M. Gueorgui Parvanov, et celle de Sa Majesté Carl XVI Gustaf, roi de Suède, qui sera à mes côtés  cet après-midi pour l’inauguration de l’exposition thématique « Planète Terre : des lieux vus de l’espace ». Cette  exposition, prélude à l’Année internationale de la planète Terre qui sera célébrée en 2008 par l’ensemble de la  communauté internationale, entend rendre plus visible et intelligible la dimension proprement éthique, humaine et sociale  des questions liées au développement durable, à l’environnement et à l’éducation. L’UNESCO fait ici la démonstration  des atouts que constituent son approche multidisciplinaire et un savoir-faire acquis de longue date dans un vaste  éventail de domaines allant de l’écologie aux sciences de la Terre, des énergies renouvelables à la sauvegarde de la  diversité biologique et de la diversité culturelle, de l’éthique à l’éducation au développement durable.
7.8 Je ne peux manquer, à cet égard, d’exprimer ma grande satisfaction de la récente attribution du prix Nobel de la  paix à l’ancien Vice-Président américain Al Gore et au Groupe d’experts intergouvernemental sur l’évolution du climat  pour leur plaidoyer sur les risques que représentent les changements climatiques. Je suis particulièrement heureux que  nous ayons eu le privilège d’entendre à ce sujet le Président de ce Groupe d’experts, M. Rajendra Pachauri, lors du  débat thématique du Conseil exécutif il y a quelques jours.
7.9 Je tiens, par ailleurs, à souligner que notre Organisation se prépare à célébrer une autre Année internationale  en 2008 – l’Année internationale des langues – dont elle assumera le rôle de chef de file sur décision de l’Assemblée  générale des Nations Unies. Toute une série d’initiatives et d’événements seront organisés à cette occasion.
7.10 Après-demain, nous aurons le privilège d’accueillir dans cette enceinte le Président de la République hellénique,  M. Karolos Papoulias, et d’autres chefs d’État et de gouvernement nous rejoindront dans les prochaines semaines : ce  sont les Présidents de l’ex-République yougoslave de Macédoine, de la République-Unie de Tanzanie, du Cameroun, du  Paraguay, de la Guinée équatoriale et de la Bolivie, ainsi que le Premier Ministre de Saint-Vincent-et-les Grenadines.  Nous aurons également l’honneur et le plaisir de recevoir la Princesse Lalla Salma du Maroc.
7.11 Outre les chefs d’État, ce ne sont pas loin de 200 ministres, pour la plupart des ministres des affaires  étrangères, de l’éducation et de l’enseignement supérieur, ainsi que des ministres de la culture et des sciences, qui  participeront à nos travaux. Les ministres de l’éducation, de l’enseignement supérieur et des sciences échangeront leurs  vues au cours des deux tables rondes ministérielles consacrées l’une à l’éducation et au développement économique,  l’autre aux sciences et aux technologies au service du développement durable.
7.12 Enfin, la Conférence générale, qui n’aura jamais autant mérité le qualificatif d’instance de dialogue et de  concertation, aura bénéficié pour la cinquième fois de la contribution enthousiaste des nombreux participants au Forum  des jeunes qui s’est tenu avant l’ouverture, vendredi et samedi derniers, et dont les conclusions finales seront portées à  votre connaissance au cours de vos travaux ainsi que, pour la première fois, aux tables rondes ministérielles.
7.13 Un forum international, qui rassemblera, autour de nos valeurs et de nos objectifs, les représentants des  principaux partenaires non gouvernementaux de l’Organisation – ONG, parlementaires, représentants du secteur privé -,  se tiendra, pour la première fois également, durant cette session. Cette nouvelle plate-forme de dialogue vient confirmer  et amplifier notre démarche traditionnellement participative et ouverte à l’égard de ce qu’il est convenu aujourd’hui  d’appeler la société civile et dont les pères fondateurs, de façon prémonitoire, ont fait d’emblée l’un des piliers de la  coopération internationale dans nos domaines de compétence.
7.14 Les occasions de dialoguer seront donc nombreuses, aussi bien dans les tables rondes ministérielles qu’à la  faveur des nombreux événements organisés au cours et en marge de la Conférence générale. Je forme des vœux pour  le succès de vos travaux et pour que cette session se distingue par la richesse des échanges de vues et des débats  d’idées sur les grands questionnements de notre temps. Plus que jamais, nos organes directeurs restent les garants de  la vitalité de notre institution, de la richesse de sa réflexion, de l’universalité de sa mission. Je vous remercie de votre  attention.  (Applaudissements)
8.1 The President:   Thank you very much, Mr Director-General.  (The President continues in Arabic)
(8.2) (translation from the Arabic) Thank you for those fine and heartening words.  Item 1.2: Establishment of the Credentials Committee  Point 1.2 : Constitution du Comité de vérification des pouvoirs  Punto 1.2: Constitución del Comité de Verificación de Poderes  Пункт 1.2: Учреждение Комитета по проверке полномочий  א:١,٢א   项目 1.2：成立全权证书委员会   :א ٩ א  א ،٣٢، א א א אא א א א א א ، א א א א א ، א א א א א א ، א  א א א א ،:א ، א ، א، ، א א، ، א ، ؟.א א ، א א ، א אא.א ، ، א ، א א א ، א٢א א٣٢ א ، א א א א א١٧٧/٤٣، א ، א ،א א א ، א א א א א א ، א. א א ، א א א ، א א  .א
(9) The President (translation from the Arabic):   As you all know, under Rule 32, paragraph 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the General Conference, this Committee is  composed of nine Member States elected by Member States on the proposal of the Temporary President, with due regard to  equitable geographical distribution. Having studied the composition of the previous committees and following the consultations  held with a large number of delegations, I should like to propose to you that the Credentials Committee be made up of the  following nine Member States: Barbados, El Salvador, Kenya, Kuwait, Lithuania, the Netherlands, Norway, Samoa and  Slovakia. I propose to you that these States form the Credentials Committee. Are you in agreement? I see no objection, it is so  decided. the Credentials Committee has been formed and now allow me, ladies and gentlemen, to remind you that, according  to Rule 32, paragraph 2, the Committee is responsible for electing its own Chairperson. However, I should like to remind you  as well that by means of 177 EX/Decision 43, the Executive Board recommended the election of Her Excellency Ambassador  Ina Marčiulionytė, the Permanent Delegate of Lithuania to UNESCO as Chairperson of this Committee. As there appears to be  no objection, it is so decided. While the session is in adjournment, I shall of course request Her Excellency the Chairperson to  convene the first meeting. Accordingly, I shall invite her at a later date to determine the time and venue of the first meeting of  the Credentials Committee.  Establishment of the Nominations Committee  Constitution du Comité des candidatures  Constitución del Comité de Candidaturas  Учреждение Комитета по кандидатурам  א   成立提名委员会   :א ١٠  ، ، א א٣٤א א א א א ، א א אא א.، א ، א ،٣٤א א ، א א אא١٧٧/٤٣א א ، א א א א ، א א ، א ، א.א א א א א א א א ، א٤א א א א  .א
(10) The President (translation from the Arabic):   We shall now move on to the establishment of the Nominations Committee. As you will also know, under Rule 34 of  the Rules of Procedure this Committee shall consist of the heads of all delegations entitled to vote in the Conference. As it is  composed of all of you, I do not believe we require agreement. Each head of delegation has the right to appoint whomever he  sees fit to attend meetings of the Nominations Committee. However, referring also to Rule 34, the Committee normally elects  its own Chairperson and I should like to remind you that, under 177 EX/Decision 43 of the Executive Board, the Executive  Board has recommended the election of His Excellency Dr Abdulsalam Mohamed Al-Joufi, Minister of Education of the  Republic of Yemen, as Chairperson of this Committee. I see no objection, it is so decided. Allow me on your behalf to  congratulate His Excellency Minister Dr Abdulsalam on his election. I shall invite the Nominations Committee to meet in  Room IV here at Fontenoy to consider its agenda, including the election of the Chairperson and Vice-Chairperson.
(11) The President (translation from the Arabic):   The Credentials Committee shall also meet at 12 p.m. in Room VIII, immediately after we adjourn. Now, ladies and  gentlemen, as you know, we shall shortly have the honour of receiving His Excellency the President of the Republic of  Bulgaria who will address the General Conference in this hall. It is customary for the President of the General Conference, the  Chairperson of the Executive Board and the Director-General to receive His Excellency at the door. With your permission, I  and my two colleagues shall take our leave to receive His Excellency the President. During this time, I hope you will listen to  the invigorating Bulgarian music until our return. I would remind you of what Maxime Gorky said: “if we love song, it means that  we love life and whoever loves life, sings”. You may, therefore, sing during the next 20 minutes. I give the floor to the  Secretary of the General Conference.
12. The Secretary:   Thank you, Mr President. Could I please ask all delegates to remain in their seats as a courtesy to our  distinguished guests. Thank you very much.  The meeting is suspended for 35 minutes to allow the President of the General Conference   and the Director-General to welcome the President of Bulgaria.  (Musical interlude)  H.E. Mr Gueorgui Parvanov, President of Bulgaria, enters Room I and is escorted to his place.   :א ١٣,١ א  א א א א א א ، ، א ، ، א א א ، א א א א  :אא
(13.1) The President (translation from the Arabic):   Ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, it has become an established tradition of UNESCO that the General Conference  receives a number of eminent persons as guests during its sessions and invites them to deliver an address. This morning, it is  my pleasure to welcome His Excellency Georgi Parvanov, President of the Republic of Bulgaria. Allow me to say a few words.
(13.2) Your Excellency Georgi Parvanov, President of the Republic of Bulgaria, Your Excellencies, Heads of delegation, Your  Excellencies, Ministers, Your Excellency the Chairperson of the Executive Board, Your Excellency the Director-General, it is  an honour for me to welcome His Excellency Georgi Parvanov, President of the Republic of Bulgaria, author, historian and  statesman. It is, likewise, my pleasure to welcome you to UNESCO today. Your presence, Mr President, on the first day of our  General Conference is, undoubtedly, eloquent proof of your belief in the noble ideal of this Organization. As we eagerly wait to  hear your address, it is important for me to affirm that, in you, we see a symbol of the democracy which has made great strides  and begun to take root in Bulgarian society. Your country, Mr President, finds in your outstanding leadership experience and  personality the foundations of attachment to the freedom which is the most important aspect of the happiness for which your  faithful people strive. In the words of the Arab intellectual, Mustafa al-Manfalouti, freedom is a sun which must shine in every  soul and whoever lives bereft of freedom lives in darkness. You are one of those great leaders possessing the courage and  ability to perceive the wish of your people to advance toward development, stability and progress and avoid the miseries of  benightedness. With your transfer to democracy and the participation of Bulgarian women in government, you are affirming the  change taking place in your political and social system. Mr President, solidarity is an essential means to a life of peace and  stability. After the collapse of the Soviet Union, we believed that a state of openness would prevail and the state of tension  would disappear. However, the reality is that every day brings more tension with problems, clashes and wars. Now more than  ever, the world needs cooperation between societies, fostering of dialogue between peoples and respect for cultural and  religious plurality. Believing in the importance of establishing solid relations between the elements of Bulgarian society,  Mr President, you have realized that by building the foundations of dialogue in internal politics. As the Japanese proverb says,  “What is the value of the ship of state if all of us are not on board?” Your bonds with the international community draw  inspiration from the distinctive culture of your people, which calls for the fostering of friendly dialogue between peoples for the  sake of a creative future. Mr President, allow me to look at the distinctive relations which exist between your country and  UNESCO. It is a relationship whose roots go far back in time. Let me recall the hosting by your beautiful capital, Sofia, of the
1985 session of the General Conference which has not been forgotten by the international community. I was privileged to head  the delegation of my country, the Sultanate of Oman, to this Conference and discovered at first hand Bulgaria’s important  historical role due to its unique geographical position at the crossroads of East and West and its character as a major heir to  the astonishing diversity across the ages. It was the axis where Byzantine, Slav and Bulgar intermingled before congruence in  human values was reached and it created a heritage combining a literature and folklore which began before the dawn of  history and continues still to this day. Bulgaria has known great scholars and figures who acquired worldwide fame and carried  its name to the world, such as Saint Cyril and Saint Methodius, the two great scholars who created the Slavic script,  considered the greatest Bulgarian contribution to European and world culture and for the exchange, spread and preservation  of knowledge. Pope John Paul II honoured them with beatification as patron saints. As Socrates said, “All human souls are  eternal but the souls of men of virtue are eternal and holy”. With Bulgaria’s accession to the European Union, the Cyrillic script  has been, since January 2007, the third alphabet in the European Union. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I take this  opportunity to commend the role of the Permanent Delegation of Bulgaria to UNESCO for striving to consolidate and cement  relations between Bulgaria and the Organization. This commendation would not be complete without making reference to the  vital role of Her Excellency Ambassador Irina Bokova in maintaining and strengthening these relations and building ties of  friendship and harmony with the ambassadors and permanent delegates to UNESCO with the support of her industrious team  of assistants. Mr President, this evening you will unveil a statue of the Bulgarian national hero, Vasil Levski, a symbol of  liberation in your country, who drew his principles from humanitarian and democratic values and sacrificed himself for them.  He provides one of the noblest examples of the steadfastness and sacrifice which were the constant characteristics of your  faithful people during their struggle for freedom and dignity. The glory of nations is only built upon the heads of its martyrs and,  as the writer Madame de Staël said, the epitome of virtue is self-sacrifice. Mr President, we are proud to receive you on this  great day and value your presence here, despite your preoccupations. Mr President, the Buddha said, “The living change but  truth shall stay eternal; thoughts fade away but knowledge shall endure”. Mr President, we are honoured by your knowledge.  Thank you very much.
14.1 M. Parvanov (Président de la Bulgarie) (discours prononcé en bulgare ; texte français fourni par la délégation) :   Monsieur le Président de la Conférence générale, Monsieur le Directeur général, Messieurs les ministres,  Mesdames et Messieurs les délégués, Mesdames et Messieurs. C’est un grand honneur et un grand plaisir pour moi de  m’adresser à vous aujourd’hui dans le cadre de l’ouverture de la Conférence générale de l’UNESCO, en ma qualité de  Président bulgare.
14.2 La Bulgarie – « un petit pays à peine plus grand que la paume de la main », comme disait un poète bulgare – a  cependant un parcours historique de 13 siècles et est l’héritière d’anciennes civilisations et cultures ; or il n’y a pas de
16  petit ou de grand peuple dans l’histoire, il n’y a pas de petits ou de grands États ; c’est justement, ici, au Siège de  l’UNESCO, que l’on s’en rend compte le plus souvent.
14.3 En ma qualité d’historien, je voudrais rappeler que l’Organisation a été créée il y a 62 ans, au moment où  l’humanité vivait une de ses tragédies les plus déchirantes. Nous pouvons imaginer à quoi ressemblait le visage de la  planète pendant cette période. Ruines dans le Nord, dépendance coloniale dans le Sud, atmosphère de douleur et  d’amertume qui planait sur le monde de l’après-guerre. C’est à ce moment justement que voit le jour un projet spécial, le  projet d’affirmer la paix et l’entente entre les peuples par un partage des savoirs, par l’éducation et la culture, qui  représentent les véritables armes contre la guerre. Telle est la mission première de l’UNESCO, et c’est notre mission  commune.
14.4 Je voudrais, dès le début de mon intervention, insister sur le fait que la Bulgarie apprécie hautement la place, le  rôle, l’importance, la responsabilité et l’activité de l’UNESCO dans les efforts pour promouvoir le développement et la  coopération dans des domaines comme la science, l’éducation et la culture et pour aider l’humanité à dépasser les  préjugés, parfois accumulés depuis des siècles, pour affirmer les droits de l’homme et les idéaux humanitaires  universels. Le nombre très élevé des États membres de l’Organisation est la preuve de son caractère universel et de  l’importance de sa place dans la politique mondiale, et je voudrais saluer, à cet égard, l’adhésion du Monténégro à  l’UNESCO, ainsi que le retour de Singapour dans l’Organisation. Car chaque culture est une parcelle d’expérience  mondiale et elle contribue avec son histoire et son génie créateur à la diversité culturelle.
14.5 La Bulgarie est membre de l’UNESCO depuis 50 ans, et nous avons une riche expérience de coopération.  Européens par notre origine et par notre situation géographique, nous sommes aussi des citoyens du monde par notre  esprit. Nous avons toujours soutenu et continuons de soutenir les idéaux et les objectifs de l’Organisation ainsi que ses  initiatives concrètes. Suivant la logique d’un développement cyclique, notre présence à l’UNESCO a été marquée par  des hauts et des bas, mais, dans la conscience des Bulgares, l’UNESCO a été et restera toujours le protecteur du  patrimoine culturel de l’humanité. Le fait que « l’Église de Boyana », « la Tombe thrace de Kazanlak », « l’Ancienne cité  de Nessebar », « le Monastère de Rila » et quelques autres sites et monuments très importants soient sous la protection  de l’UNESCO ne signifie pas seulement que ces sites bénéficient de tout l’entretien nécessaire pour être préservés pour  les générations futures mais aussi que, grâce à l’UNESCO, ils deviennent le patrimoine de l’humanité.
14.6 En Bulgarie, le nom de l’UNESCO est associé à l’éducation pour tous et au soutien qui est donné aux  institutions éducatives scientifiques, à la protection du patrimoine culturel, au respect des valeurs culturelles et de la  diversité culturelle comme condition nécessaire pour un développement durable. Voilà pourquoi je souhaite remercier,  au nom du peuple bulgare et en mon nom propre, le Directeur général et tous les collaborateurs du Secrétariat pour leur  soutien et leur assistance sans réserve aux experts et institutions bulgares qui travaillent dans la sphère de l’éducation,  de la science et de la culture.
14.7 Mesdames et Messieurs, le monde d’aujourd’hui, celui du XXIe siècle, est radicalement différent du monde tel  qu’il était au moment de la création de l’UNESCO. L’époque moderne est celle des nouvelles technologies de  l’information, des communications par l’Internet, des produits agricoles génétiquement modifiés, de l’éducation virtuelle,  des nouvelles sources d’énergie renouvelable. Ce monde, qui a été bâti avec les efforts, les apports des représentants  de toutes les cultures et de toutes les régions culturelles, nous met face à de nombreux problèmes qui orientent  l’attention de l’opinion publique dans plusieurs directions. Parallèlement aux phénomènes positifs et aux grands succès  marqués dans différents domaines, nous constatons également qu’il y a beaucoup de défis à relever, certains bien  connus, d’autres nouveaux. L’analphabétisme, l’accroissement de la pauvreté, l’exploitation, la marginalisation,  l’instabilité sociale, les manifestations d’intolérance, de discrimination, l’impact des nouvelles technologies de  l’information sur le développement de l’humanité, les problèmes éthiques liés au développement des biotechnologies, la  destruction progressive de l’environnement : ces problèmes remettent en question les fondements même de nos  sociétés et représentent un héritage que nous ne devrions pas laisser à nos héritiers.
14.8 Je voudrais souligner, ici, que la Bulgarie apprécie beaucoup la détermination de l’UNESCO à s’attaquer aux  nouveaux problèmes émergents et que nous nous rangeons entièrement au postulat philosophique profond qui sous- tend l’activité de l’UNESCO – à savoir que les conflits naissent d’abord dans les esprits et que c’est également dans les  esprits que doivent commencer leur résolution. Mesdames et Messieurs, à mon avis, et je suis sûr que vous partagez  également cette opinion, l’éducation est au cœur de tous les problèmes. La lutte contre l’analphabétisme à l’échelle  mondiale, l’accès généralisé pour les adolescents et les enfants à l’éducation, la formation de haute qualité sont la clé de  toutes les réponses que nous cherchons. Dans ce sens, le grand objectif que s’est donné l’UNESCO, l’Éducation pour  tous d’ici à 2015, représente un objectif de très grande envergure qui témoigne de la justesse de la conception de  l’Organisation sur ce point. Si ce problème est prioritaire, c’est parce que je crois que nous ne saurions demander à un  État d’aller de l’avant si ses citoyens sont analphabètes, si ses enfants n’ont pas accès à l’éducation et si ses filles ne  peuvent pas fréquenter l’école sur un pied d’égalité avec les garçons.
14.9 Je voudrais, Monsieur le Président, rappeler ici que mon pays est la patrie de l’écriture et de la culture slaves,  de l’œuvre grandiose des co-patrons de l’Europe que sont les saints frères Cyrille et Méthode et de leurs dignes  disciples. Ils opérèrent jadis une véritable révolution dans l’histoire spirituelle de l’Europe en posant les bases d’une  culture abordable par les livres. Abordable, je le souligne, car elle a permis non seulement à nous autres Bulgares mais  aussi à tous les Slaves de disposer de livres. Pour que les Bulgares et les Slaves puissent se développer et conquérir  leur vaste territoire spirituel. Aujourd’hui, avec le recul du temps, nous pouvons estimer que si la création de l’alphabet  slave avait été dictée uniquement par les besoins du moment, il serait depuis longtemps tombé dans l’oubli. Or en offrant  l’hospitalité aux disciples de Cyrille et de Méthode, nos ancêtres ont su créer les conditions d’existence d’une culture des
17  livres, d’une littérature de traduction et d’écoles littéraires qui ont répandu le savoir bien au-delà du territoire spirituel  bulgare. Voilà pourquoi nous disons que la culture bulgare est à la base de la civilisation européenne.
14.10 D’un autre côté, je voudrais également souligner qu’aujourd’hui encore donner à ses enfants une bonne  éducation représente une valeur fondamentale pour chaque Bulgare, quelle que soit la richesse de son patrimoine. Or,  pendant les années de transition dans notre pays, la transformation qui s’est opérée dans tous les domaines de la vie  n’a pas épargné l’éducation. Les modèles et les stratégies se sont succédé et plusieurs plans d’action ont été conçus.  Aujourd’hui, un débat est engagé dans notre société pour savoir si, et jusqu’à quel point, nous avons su sauvegarder ce  qu’il y a de positif dans nos traditions, et dans quelle mesure nous avons trop souscrit à des modèles étrangers  automatiquement transplantés chez nous. Je me rends bien compte que c’est une question d’actualité dans beaucoup  d’États. Voilà pourquoi je soutiens fermement l’approche régionale adoptée par l’UNESCO pour atteindre les objectifs  dans le domaine de l’éducation. En effet, les États, les régions, les continents différents ont des spécificités qu’il convient  de prendre en considération si on veut obtenir des résultats tangibles, même s’il est clair pour nous tous que l’éducation  va de pair avec le développement économique d’un pays. Ce sont comme les deux faces d’une médaille, car une  économie en bonne santé contribue au développement de l’éducation mais aussi une éducation pour tous et de bonne  qualité contribue à un développement économique accéléré. Dans ce sens, je suis persuadé que la table ronde qui se  tiendra dans le cadre de cette session de la Conférence générale sur le thème de l’articulation entre l’économie et  l’éducation parviendra à présenter de nouvelles idées prometteuses du point de vue des stratégies politiques nationales  tout en proposant une orientation pour l’activité et les priorités de l’UNESCO dans ce domaine. Mesdames et Messieurs,  l’UNESCO est le lieu où se rencontrent l’universel et le spécifique, à savoir les particularités de chaque nation, de  chaque culture, de chaque peuple, de tous ceux qui sont égaux en dignité vu que tous les hommes naissent égaux.
14.11 Aujourd’hui, les peuples de la planète poursuivent un objectif commun : le rapprochement par le dialogue et par  la volonté commune de résoudre les problèmes et d’encourager la bonne entente. En participant à ce processus, la  Bulgarie, conjointement avec les autres États, œuvre à transformer l’Europe du Sud-Est en une région de paix et de  stabilité où les peuples vivraient dans une atmosphère de confiance et de respect mutuel en coopération étroite avec  leurs voisins. Nous sommes profondément convaincus que la culture est porteuse d’entente et non pas de discorde et  que la culture et la solidarité sont des préalables à l’édification d’une paix juste et durable. C’est peut-être dans cette  perspective qu’il conviendra de juger l’apport bulgare au programme de l’UNESCO. Tout à l’heure, dans mon entretien  avec le Directeur général de l’UNESCO, nous nous sommes rappelés que la Bulgarie était à l’origine de toute une série  de forums organisés avec le soutien de l’UNESCO et qu’elle était aussi un participant actif aux forums consacrés au  dialogue entre les civilisations. Les corridors culturels de l’Europe du Sud-Est, le passé commun et le patrimoine partagé  ont été le thème du forum de Varna. À Ohrid, à Tirana, à Opatija, à Bucarest se sont également tenus des forums et des  colloques très fructueux. Je crois que cela continuera. Tous les participants à ces rencontres ont été convaincus que la  richesse du patrimoine culturel de la région est un élément significatif de la diversité culturelle mondiale en même temps  que de l’identité européenne et régionale. C’est notre devoir de la préserver et de transmettre cet héritage aux  générations futures.
14.12 Nous, les présidents des pays de l’Europe de l’Est, sommes convaincus que l’avenir de la région est étroitement  lié à l’avenir commun européen et qu’il n’y a pas d’autre alternative. Nous avons reconnu l’existence de problèmes  semblables et passablement pénibles hérités du passé, que nous sommes toutefois en train de surmonter. Ce qui est  autrement plus important, c’est que nous ayons des objectifs communs, orientés vers une coopération active, vers la  sécurité et la stabilité, la prospérité économique et une meilleure communication.
14.13 C’est là un exemple, Mesdames et Messieurs, de la manière dont les gouvernements et les peuples d’une  région qui est connue par la métaphore banale de « poudrière de l’Europe » peuvent se réunir au nom d’un objectif  commun : le rapprochement par le dialogue et par la volonté commune d’encourager la compréhension mutuelle. C’est  pourquoi l’éducation au patrimoine culturel et historique et par le patrimoine culturel et historique devient une tâche  primordiale pour nous tous. Nous tous, qui voulons être citoyens d’un monde de respect et de diversité des cultures.  L’éducation au patrimoine culturel est synonyme d’éducation à la tolérance interethnique, interreligieuse et interculturelle.  Il me semble que c’est un sujet de grande actualité, non seulement pour la Bulgarie et les Balkans mais aussi pour  l’Europe et le monde entier.
14.14 Il est important d’insister sur le sens et l’importance de la Convention pour la sauvegarde du patrimoine culturel  immatériel adoptée en 2003. Cette Convention garantit la protection et la conservation de cultures dont les expressions,  la création orale, la langue et les rites sont menacés de disparition. Elle aide à la renaissance de peuples oubliés qui  sont en train de vivre une disparition dramatique, submergés sous l’indifférence de l’humanité. En tant que Bulgare, je  me réjouis qu’en novembre 2005 les grands-mères de Bistritsa ont été déclarées chefs-d’œuvre du patrimoine oral et  immatériel de l’humanité. À Bistritsa, aujourd’hui encore, le chant polyphonique, les danses et les rites sont transmis  traditionnellement aux jeunes. C’est pourquoi la Bulgarie, comme futur pays hôte de la deuxième session extraordinaire  du Comité intergouvernemental de sauvegarde du patrimoine culturel immatériel en février 2008, s’est donné pour tâche  de contribuer à l’aboutissement du processus d’élaboration des documents grâce auxquels cette Convention sera mise  en œuvre. La Bulgarie envisage la création d’un centre régional pour la protection du patrimoine culturel immatériel sous  l’égide de l’UNESCO. Ce centre va réunir les efforts des pays de l’Europe du Sud-Est, de la région de la mer Noire et de  la Méditerranée ainsi que le Caucase.
14.15 Mesdames et Messieurs, aujourd’hui, la mondialisation galopante pose à tous les peuples le défi de la  protection de leur identité. Le peuple bulgare, héritier de civilisations et de cultures anciennes, accepte la diversité des  cultures comme une richesse de notre réalité qui doit être respectée, sauvegardée et transmise aux générations futures.  La Bulgarie participe activement au dialogue interculturel basé sur les valeurs humaines et le respect mutuel de la  diversité de chaque culture. Nous partageons l’opinion de l’UNESCO, selon laquelle l’encouragement au dialogue entre
18  les civilisations est une priorité de base, un impératif fondamental basé sur l’unité de l’humanité et des valeurs humaines,  sur le respect mutuel de la diversité culturelle et de la dignité de chaque civilisation et de chaque culture. Voilà pourquoi  nous saluons l’initiative du Secrétaire général de l’ONU visant à créer une Alliance des civilisations et nous considérons  que l’UNESCO doit y jouer un rôle important, conformément à sa vocation.
14.16 Mesdames et Messieurs, la Bulgarie apprécie hautement la détermination de l’UNESCO à s’engager, à  s’impliquer dans des problèmes actuels comme le réchauffement global, l’impact des nouvelles technologies, les  problèmes éthiques créés par l’évolution des biotechnologies. À cette étape, personne ne pourrait contester cette vérité  déplaisante que le réchauffement global est une conséquence de l’activité humaine. L’unanimité préoccupante de  scientifiques, d’hommes politiques et de simples citoyens en confirme l’évidence. Nous, habitants de la Terre, nous  avons emprunté une voie déraisonnable et nous nous approchons de conséquences qui peuvent devenir irréversibles.  Non seulement l’environnement est menacé, mais les changements climatiques peuvent aussi amener une crise  économique et sociale et mettre en péril la sécurité et la stabilité des États. Les initiatives concrètes de l’UNESCO  portant sur des recherches et la coopération dans le cadre de la protection de l’environnement comme condition sine  qua non du développement durable de l’humanité méritent notre plein soutien.
14.17 Mesdames et Messieurs, pour terminer, je voudrais assurer tous ceux qui sont présents dans cette salle qu’en  tant que pays qui participe activement et réellement aux activités de l’UNESCO, comme l’un des trois pays membres de  l’Organisation à avoir proposé d’accueillir la Conférence générale et qui l’a accueillie en 1985, la Bulgarie continuera à  encourager la réalisation des objectifs de l’UNESCO, pour que notre aspiration commune à la paix, à la démocratie, à la  coopération et au progrès devienne une réalité. La paix et la démocratie se construisent tous les jours. La paix et la  démocratie exigent la solidarité avec les idéaux et les droits proclamés dans la Déclaration universelle des droits de  l’homme, dont l’anniversaire sera aussi célébré par l’UNESCO en 2008. En souhaitant à la 34e session de la Conférence  générale des travaux fructueux, je voudrais conclure par les paroles du grand révolutionnaire bulgare Vassilevski, que  vous avez rappelé à notre attention, Monsieur le Président. Il disait : « Courage et persévérance ». Soyons audacieux et  persévérants pour tracer tous ensemble la bonne voie qui nous mènera vers notre avenir commun et celui de nos  enfants. Soyons courageux et persévérants pour que l’esprit de la coopération, de la tolérance et du respect mutuel des  valeurs et des cultures puisse atteindre les recoins les plus lointains de notre planète. Je vous remercie.   (Applaudissements)   :א ١٥,١  ، א ، א א א א א ، א ، א א א א א א א ، א.א ، א א אא א א א א א א.א ، א  .א א ١٥,٢ א א א ، א א ، ، א א א א ، א  .א.אא
(15.1) The President (translation from the Arabic):   Thank you very much, Mr President, for your important and sensitive words in which you addressed the subject of  education for all (EFA), which we aspire to achieve. You dealt with culture, which brings us together, the ancient heritage of  your country and the tolerance we seek. I thank you for your valuable, rich and impressive message. You shall remain in the  memory of UNESCO and in the memory of this, the 34th session of the General Conference. I salute you and wish you every  success in your endeavours in the service of your country and the whole world. Thank you once again.
(15.2) Ladies and gentlemen, I trust you will be so kind as to give me a brief opportunity to bid farewell to His Excellency the  President. I think that, after the fine and graceful address of His Excellency, we might close the meeting. By the grace of God,  we shall reconvene at 3 p.m. Thank you very much.  The meeting rose at 1.05 p.m.  La séance est levée à 13 h 05  Se levanta la sesión a las 13.05  Заседание закрывается в 13.05  א א١,٠٥א   会议于 13 时 05 分结束