38  Item 1.7: Admission to the work of the General Conference of observers from international non-governmental  organizations other than those maintaining formal relations with UNESCO, and recommendation of the  Executive Board thereon (34 C/10)  Point 1.7 : Admission aux travaux de la Conférence générale d’observateurs d’organisations internationales non  gouvernementales autres que celles entretenant des relations formelles et opérationnelles avec l’UNESCO :  recommandation du Conseil exécutif à ce sujet (34 C/10)  Punto 1.7: Admisión en los trabajos de la Conferencia General de observadores de organizaciones  internacionales no gubernamentales que no sean las que mantienen relaciones formales y operativas con la  UNESCO, y recomendaciones del Consejo Ejecutivo al respecto (34 C/10)  Пункт 1.7: Допуск на сессию Генеральной конференции наблюдателей от других международных  неправительственных организаций, помимо тех, которые поддерживают официальные и рабочие  отношения с ЮНЕСКО, и рекомендация Исполнительного совета по этому вопросу (34 С/10)  א:١,٧א א ، אא א ، א א א א )٣٤/١٠(א   项目 1.7：关于接纳与联合国教科文组织保持密切正式关系的非政府国际组织以外的非政府观察员列席大会会议问题及执 行局就此问题的建议（34 C/10）
1.1 The President:   I have to ask you to excuse me for the delay – the first meeting of the General Committee took 25 minutes more  than it should have. We have arranged for the next meeting to start earlier. I now declare open the third plenary meeting  of the General Conference.  (The President continues in French)
1.2 Je voudrais commencer par le point 1.7 de l’ordre du jour, qui concerne l’admission aux travaux de la  Conférence générale d’observateurs d’organisations internationales non gouvernementales autres que celles  entretenant des relations formelles et opérationnelles avec l’UNESCO. Il y a une recommandation du Conseil exécutif à  ce sujet (document 34 C/10). Puisque le Président n’est pas encore arrivé, je voudrais, pour ne pas perdre de temps,  demander à M. Millward de bien vouloir présenter cette recommandation.
2.1 Le Secrétaire :   Merci, Monsieur le Président. Je scrute l’horizon pour voir si le Président arrive, mais ce n’est pas le cas. Je  peux effectivement vous donner rapidement lecture du texte qu’il avait prévu de prononcer.   (L’orateur poursuit en anglais)
2.2 Mr President, Mr Director-General, distinguished delegates, ladies and gentlemen, owing to the explicit  recognition over the past years of NGOs on the United Nations scene, presenting this item may seem redundant. Indeed  we are all aware that the non-governmental community is ever-present in the conduct of international cooperation for  development and maintaining peace and stability. The participation of international NGOs maintaining operational  relations with UNESCO and organizations maintaining relations with UNESCO under the directives concerning  UNESCO’s relations with foundations and similar institutions, and of organizations with no official relations with UNESCO  is governed by Rule 7 of the Rules of Procedure of the Conference, which stipulates that the General Conference, on the  recommendation of the Executive Board and by a two-thirds majority of Members present and voting, may admit as  observers at specified sessions of the Conference or of its commissions representatives of international non- governmental or semi-governmental organizations.
3. The President:  Thank you very much, Mr Millward. the Chairperson of the Executive Board has arrived. I would like to ask him to present  the recommendation of the Executive Board to the General Conference. Mr Chairperson, you have the floor.
4.1 The Chairperson of the Executive Board (Mr Zhang, China):   Thank you, Mr President. In 125 EX/Decision 6.2, the Executive Board established the procedures governing  requests from NGOs, thus drawing a distinction between, on the one hand, NGOs having operational relations with  UNESCO, and, on the other hand, foundations and similar institutions maintaining formal relations and other international  organizations.
4.2 At its 177th session, the Executive Board examined the requests received from 52 international non- governmental organizations maintaining operational relations, seven foundations maintaining formal relations with  UNESCO and three international non-governmental organizations not maintaining official relations with UNESCO; they  are listed in the annex to document 34 C/10.
4.3 Mr President, it is my pleasure to inform the General Conference that during the recent biennium, the NGO  Committee of the Executive Board has taken on a new impetus under the able chairmanship of H.E. Mr Lakatos. Its  meetings have afforded an open space where NGOs, Member States and the Secretariat were able to have further  exchanges, and their experience has enriched the proposals. In line with this innovative approach, and with a view to  continuing this positive momentum, I therefore recommend, on behalf of the Executive Board, that these organizations  be invited to participate in this 34th session of the General Conference as observers in the debates on specific agenda  items relating to their fields of competence. Thank you.
5. The President:   Thank you very much, Mr Chairperson of the Executive Board. I think the Board recommendations are very  clear. I would like to ask our colleagues not to intervene unless they have specific reason to do so, so that we do not  waste any more time. If you think this is quite clear, I would like your permission to submit for your approval the  recommendation of the Executive Board. Are there any objections? I see none, so I take it that this recommendation has  been unanimously adopted. Thank you very much.   Item 1.4: Adoption of the agenda (continued) (34 C/1 Prov. and Prov. Rev.)  Point 1.4 : Adoption de l’ordre du jour (suite) (34 C/1 Prov. et Prov. Rev.)  Punto 1.4: Aprobación del orden del día (continuación) (34 C/1 Prov. y Prov. Rev.)  Пункт 1.4: Утверждение повестки дня (продолжение) (34 С/1 Prov. и Prov. Rev.)  א:١,٤א )،٣٤/١()(א   项目 1.4：通过议程（续）（34 C/1 Prov.和 Prov. Rev.）
6. The President:   We shall now move on to Item 1.4: “Adoption of the agenda”. I mentioned briefly that the General Committee  met this morning. I would like to ask the Secretary of the Conference, Mr Millward, to report on the recommendations of  the General Committee.
7. The Secretary:   Thank you, Mr President. I will not repeat what is already contained in document 34 C/2 and Addenda. I would  merely like to inform you that the General Committee, on the proposal of the Secretariat and the Director-General, has  agreed to recommend the inclusion of an additional agenda item under the provisions for requests of an urgent nature.  This provisional item would become item 4.4 and its title would be “Adoption of the provisional budget ceiling for the  coming biennium”. Thank you, Mr President.
8. The President:   Are there any comments or reservations or objections to what Mr Millward has just said? I see none, so I declare  that the item has been included in the agenda.   Item 1.6: Organization of the work of the session (34 C/2 and Add.-Add.2)  Point 1.6 : Organisation des travaux de la session (34 C/2 et Add.-Add.2)  Punto 1.6: Organización de los trabajos de la reunión (34 C/2 y Add.-Add.2)  Пункт 1.6: Организация работы сессии (34 С/2 и Add.-Add.2)  )٢−٣٤/٢(א:١,٦א   项目 1.6：届会的工作安排（34 C/2 和 Add.-Add.2）
9. The President:   We go to item 1.6 “Organization of the work of the session”. The relevant documents are document 34 C/2 and  Add. and Add. 2. I would like to inform you that the General Committee has examined the decisions adopted by the  Executive Board at its 176th and 177th sessions and recommends that the General Conference approve the proposals  contained in the documents I have referred to, subject to modifications which the Secretary will introduce.
10. The Secretary:   Thank you, Mr President. As recommended by the General Committee, in terms of the organization of the  proceedings, a certain number of additional items have been proposed for consideration by various committees as well  as the items referred to in document 34 C/2 Add. Item 5.7 “Directives concerning the use of the name, acronym, logo and  Internet domain names of UNESCO” will also be examined by the Legal Committee, as will item 6.1 “Implementation of
33 C/Resolution 92 on the relations between the three organs”. Further to the recommendation of the Executive Board,  item 3.1 on the Draft Medium-Term Strategy (34 C/4) will be considered by all programme commissions and, in  accordance with the decision just taken to inscribe a new item on the agenda, “Adoption of the provisional budget  ceiling”, this item would be attributed to the Administrative Commission.
11. The President:   Thank you very much, Mr Millward. Would you like to go on?
12. The Secretary:   Thank you, Mr President. In accordance with a request from the General Committee, it has been agreed that  before you formally adopt the organization of the work of the session, I should clearly indicate to you what is set out in  the C/2 document, namely that in order to proceed with the work of the session, certain rules of procedures should be  suspended. In this case, there are three such rules, Rules 53 and 57, both of which are related to the preparation of  provisional verbatim records, and Rule 80, which concerns the suspension of the required deadline for the submission of  draft resolutions on the Draft Medium-Term Strategy. Thank you.
13. The President:   Thank you very much, Mr Millward. Any comments or objections or observations from the floor? The  representative of Saint Lucia, you have the floor
14.1 Ms Lacoeuilhe (Saint Lucia):   Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, we have no reservations, and we will accept the suspension of the  Rules of Procedure. We are pleased that the General Committee under your chairmanship has decided to flag to the  General Conference exactly what it is supposed to do, because we should not suspend Rules of Procedure without it  being explicitly brought before the Conference in plenary session.
14.2 My second remark, Mr President, is that we are accepting the suspension of the Rules of procedure on the issue  of the provisional verbatim records only because we have reached an agreement with the Secretariat that they will be  transcribing all the debates and putting them on the Internet, because, as you know, for small delegations, these  provisional records are very important. We use them because we are not always in plenary meetings, and we need to  know what is going on. Therefore, we also want to make sure, Mr President, that it be decided in plenary that the final  verbatim records will be distributed to Member States no later than six months after the closure of the session, because  we still do not have the final records from the previous session of the General Conference. Thank you, Mr President.
15. The President:   Thank you very much, Ms Lacoeuilhe. Any other remarks? Mr Millward, would you care to say anything in  response to Ms Lacoeuilhe’s remarks?
16. The Secretary:   Thank you, Mr President. Indeed there is an agreement that transcripts will be made available on the Internet as  soon as possible, covering the proceedings of the plenary, and it has been agreed with the relevant services, according  to a new plan, that the definitive verbatim records will be available six months after the end of the Conference. Thank  you.
17. The President:   Thank you very much. Since I see no one else wishing to take the floor, I would like to ask you whether you  accept the proposals contained in the documents I have already referred to, that is, documents 34 C/2 and Add.-Add.2.  Are there any objections? There do not seem to be any, so they are approved.  Organization of the general policy debate  Organisation du débat de politique générale  Organización del debate de política general  Организация обсуждения вопросов общей политики  א א   总政策辩论的工作安排
18. The President:   We shall now turn to the organization of the general policy debate. A list of speakers has been circulating; as  you know it has been drawn up over the last three months, so you are aware of all these difficult discussions because  naturally ministers honour us by their presence, but they have to begin on time when they come here; of course, they  can’t wait for a whole week before intervening, etc., and heads of delegations are also eager to intervene when they think  it is necessary, and I would just remind you of the decision of the Executive Board at its 160th session that the general  policy debate should be focused on the future policy orientations of the Organization. It is natural, therefore, that I ask the  heads of delegations to try to devote their statements to future policy proposals, particularly those relating to the Medium- Term Strategy. Thus, you have seen the list of speakers for the morning debate starting with our former President of the  General Conference: Oman, Portugal, Iraq, Malaysia, Qatar, Saudi Arabia, Kenya, Lebanon, United Republic of  Tanzania and Samoa. I do not think I should go on reading to you the afternoon list of speakers as well, as I think the  next speakers are already in your minds. Yes, Mr Millward, did you want to make a comment?
19. The Secretary:   Very quickly, the General Committee has received a request, which it is also recommending to the plenary, for  Portugal to have a speaking time of 10 minutes against a reduction in Malta’s speaking time from eight to four minutes.  The General Committee proposes that this be accepted. I would also briefly like to say that at the end of the morning, we  will receive a report from the Credentials Committee. Thank you.
20. The President:   Thank you very much, Mr Millward. I think that we can accept the speakers’ list with the specifications you have  made, and I suggest, if you agree, that we enter the general policy debate, item 2.1. First, we have the report of the  Director-General on the activities of the Organization in 2004-2005, introduced by the Chairperson of the Executive  Board. The document pertaining to this item is document 34 C/3.
41  Item 2.2: Reports by the Executive Board (34 C/9 Parts I and II)  Point 2.2 : Rapports du Conseil exécutif (34 C/9 Parties I et II)  Punto 2.2: Informes del Consejo Ejecutivo (Partes I y II)  Пункт 2.2: Доклады Исполнительного совета (34 С/9 Parts I и II)  א:٢,٢א א א٣٤/٩(א א )א   项目 2.2：执行局的报告（34 C/9 第 I 和 II 部分）
21. The President:   The Chairman of the Executive Board shall also present item 2.2 “Report by the Executive Board on its own  activities in 2006-2007, including its methods of work”. The relevant document proposed for our attention is document
34 C/9 Part I. So, with this very simple thought in mind, I would like to ask the Chairman of the Executive Board,  H.E. Mr Zhang Xinsheng, to give his presentation.
22.1 The Chairperson of the Executive Board:   Thank you, Mr President. Mr President of the General Conference, Mr Director-General of UNESCO,  honourable ministers, delegates, Excellencies, dear colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, item 2.1 “Report by the Director- General on the activities of the Organization in 2004-2005” – that is, document 34 C/3 – is customarily introduced by the  Chairperson of the Executive Board, in accordance with Articles V.B.10 and VI.3(b) of the Constitution and Rule 10(a) of  the Rules of Procedure. This document was prepared in accordance with the provisions of Article VI.3(b) of the  Constitution. The Board examined the Director-General’s report at its 174th session and 176th session and adopted
174 EX/Decision 3 and 176 EX/Decision 53.
22.2 Mr President, thank you also for giving me the floor to speak on item 2.2 “Report by the Executive Board on its  own activities in 2006-2007, including its methods of work”. The document proposed for your attention is document
34 C/9, Part I and Part II. Part I responds directly to 30 C/Resolution 81, while Part II is the Board’s response to
33 C/Resolution 78 and 33 C/Resolution 92. Both documents were examined by the Board at its 177th session, which  was held earlier this month.
22.3 Mr President, esteemed colleagues, I am honoured to present this report to the General Conference on behalf of  all of the Executive Board and its 58 Members. It is organized in three parts: first, I will speak on the innovation in our  reporting to the General Conference by saying a few words about Part II; then I shall comment on the Executive Board’s  activities throughout this biennium; and, finally, I will make some concluding remarks.
22.4 Referring to UNESCO’s Constitution (Article V.B.6(a), (b), (c)), the Executive Board is entrusted with the  responsibility to report fully and accurately to you on our activities and methods of work during the past two years. With  this in mind, distinguished delegates, I can say that every effort has been made to present a clear and comprehensive  summary of the Board’s work and an initial assessment of the implementation of the programme by the Secretariat. The  documents before you show an overall significant and steady improvement in the manner in which the Board reports to  and accounts for its activities to the General Conference. Of course, we also recognize that the Board’s reporting to the  General Conference can continue to be improved in the future.
22.5 This manner of reporting represents an unprecedented initiative and an innovation at the same time. Document
34 C/9 Part I contains a succinct overview of the Board’s activities and its methods of work during the 2006-2007  biennium. Part II of this document is a report to you on the information deemed necessary for the Executive Board to fully  carry out its constitutional responsibilities regarding the execution of the programme by the Secretariat, in particular an  assessment and a report on the results achieved. While I realize that Part II will be examined in detail in the  interdisciplinary meeting and by the PRX Commission, owing to the innovative nature of this groundbreaking reporting  mechanism, I feel it appropriate to pause and discuss this report with you.
22.6 33 C/Resolution 92 calls for “improved reporting from the Executive Board to the General Conference on  programme implementation in accordance with Article V.6(b) of UNESCO’s Constitution”. 33 C/Resolution 78 asks “the  Executive Board to report to it at each session on the implementation of the current Programme and Budget (C/5),  together with the results achieved in the previous biennium (C/3)”. In order for the Board to accomplish this feat, I  established an informal working group on the report of the Executive Board on the implementation of the programme.  This informal working group was established especially for that purpose and worked very earnestly on the issue; and it is  also an open-ended informal working group. The group processed over 300 pages of documentation including EX/4  documents, C/3 documents, completed tables on activities and results, plus three working drafts, leading to the final  report before you in document 34 C/9 Part II.
22.7 The Board itself decided that the report would cover assessments and analyses of achievements made and  challenges to be overcome with regard to the relevance, financial and human resources employed in delivering the  results, cost effectiveness, sustainability, lessons learned, and that it would also include recommendations. This task was  one of the daunting challenges I referred to yesterday. What you have before you is a structured format and suggested  manner to continue to move forward in the next biennium to continually improve our reporting to you, the General  Conference. This part of our reporting to you is innovative. It is also the first time we have undertaken such an exercise,  thus it represents our own groundbreaking efforts to ensure accurate and analytical reporting to you on the  implementation of the programme at the country and regional levels by the Secretariat. We take this constitutional role of  our governing body very seriously, because it further reinforces the roles of the three organs of UNESCO while  respecting the responsibilities of each different one. During your deliberation on this item, you may provide further  guidance and recommendations on this aspect of our reporting mechanism to you.
22.8 Distinguished representatives, the 2006-2007 biennium offered opportunities for constructive change, nurturing  an invigorated sense of the Board’s own responsibilities, while proactively accomplishing the tasks demanded of it by the  General Conference. The past biennium saw the 60th anniversary of UNESCO. It was a special time in the life of the  Organization. Members of the Board undertook a review of the past in order to give maximum relevance to its guidance  about UNESCO’s future. The two thematic debates conducted by the Board were signal events allowing a joint reflection  and a rededication to the noble objectives of our Organization. In that connection – but also throughout the past two  years – the Board focused on increasing the relevance and visibility of UNESCO internationally and within the United  Nations system. The Executive Board was chiefly concerned throughout the biennium with its deliberations and  subsequent recommendations to the General Conference concerning the Programme and Budget and the Draft Medium- Term Strategy.
22.9 Allow me, Mr President, to make a few comments in this regard. At various stages throughout the biennium the  Board dealt with the preparation of documents 34 C/4 and 34 C/5, and then with the examination of the draft documents  presented by the Director-General. At its 176th session, the Drafting Group set up by the Board examined in  considerable detail and most thoroughly draft document 34 C/4. Our recommendations have been submitted to you in  document 34 C/11, alongside the Director-General’s original proposal in document 34 C/4. I am gratified to note that the  Director-General has indicated his agreement with the various changes proposed by our Board. The Board has thus  been able to give the Conference the essential elements it will need when considering the Draft Medium-Term Strategy  on the road to its adoption at the end of this General Conference session. For my part, let me express my deep  satisfaction at the high-quality work done by the Board on this vital issue. I welcome in particular the agreement reached  concerning the Director-General’s proposal to conceive document 34 C/4 as a rolling strategy subject to revision every  two years by the General Conference so as to be able to take into account latest developments. The Medium-Term  Strategy incorporates a strong vision for the Organization to work in an intersectoral and interdisciplinary manner to the  maximum extent, capitalizing on one of our most important assets. Let me also point out the unanimous endorsement by  all Members of the Board to designate two global priorities for the Organization for the six years ahead: African poverty  and gender equality. Targeted interventions are envisaged for the following important groups: small island developing  States (SIDS), least developed countries (LDCs), youth, and disadvantaged segments of populations, including  indigenous peoples.
22.10 Mr President, distinguished colleagues, at its 176th and 177th sessions, the Board also considered the Draft  Programme and Budget for 2008-2009, namely document 34 C/5 and the corresponding budget ceiling. The Board’s  Drafting Group again deliberated in great detail about the Director-General’s proposal. Following exceptionally hard and  long work, the Board adopted its amendments to document 34 C/5 second version, which the Director-General had  produced to align the C/5 document with our recommendations on the C/4 document. One of the most significant and  noteworthy consensus agreements reached was the unanimous recommendation concerning the budget ceiling of  $631 million, as proposed by the Director-General in his corrigendum to document 34 C/5 second version. It is indeed a  rare feat that the Board is in a position to make such a clear-cut budget recommendation to you, the General  Conference.
22.11 With the Director-General’s proposal, and our own recommendations, I can confidently say that the needs of  many have been heard and will be met. What is important for you to consider in your deliberations on this budget level is  that it is a break from the past adherence to, if not straightjacket of, zero nominal growth. For our beloved Organization to  be credible and competitive it must have the financing it needs. We trust that this step forward, albeit small, will continue  to be matched by further enhanced programme implementation by the Secretariat, and will bring out the true value of  UNESCO’s contribution to multilateral efforts at large. I trust that the work undertaken by the Executive Board on behalf  of all 193 Member States of UNESCO concerning the Medium-Term Strategy and the Programme and Budget will have  facilitated your work.
22.12 Ladies and gentlemen, our Board saw itself as a bridge-builder among Member States and among divergent  interests. To that end, it fostered better mutual understanding, and above all it promoted convergence and consensus on  all issues. Even when we began our deliberations from different points of view, we were committed to reaching a  common goal. This enabled the Board to concentrate on the major challenges, while leaving minor differences aside,  always seeking common ground for the major issues and the overarching objectives. Throughout the past two years we  obtained full consensus on all issues of our work – a rare feat indeed. Through consensus-building we achieved better  results in international cooperation.
22.13 Any consensus is founded upon trust, nurtured over time, mutually developed and consummated. If you trust in  yourself, then you may also have the ability to trust in others. Harmony underpinned by an open and transparent  dialogue, active listening, consultation, compromise and convergence of ideas – in a nutshell “Unity in Diversity” – will  always help to build the requisite trust needed to reach consensus. Hopefully this momentum can be sustained, and I  believe it will with the efforts of all. The Executive Board’s own methods of work evolved in the process – guided by this  proverbial spirit of harmony and an atmosphere of trust. In many instances, the Board was thus able to achieve what  could have been considered unachievable at the outset, and it demonstrated to the outside world that it really was  capable of dealing with the most complex challenges handed to it.
22.14 Consensus characterizes an organization where people work together instead of working against each other or  operating at cross purposes. Such an organization is one where things get done and where results are achieved.  Through consensus-building, as demonstrated throughout the past sessions of the Board, we can distinguish UNESCO  and can assume that we can make a difference. UNESCO should be more widely known as an Organization of  consensus. UNESCO’s unique ability to build bridges, generate solidarity, and, most essentially, help in its own way  towards building great universal peace and human solidarity is something worth bringing to the attention of the wider
43  world community. I even wonder whether it is not the specific issues falling within our domains, often maligned as soft,  that endow us to make such a constructive and frequently unexpected contribution. To highlight just what can be  accomplished through a concerted effort towards achieving consensus, allow me to draw your attention to some of the  specific challenges we tackled during each session of the Board. These included: respect for freedom of expression and  respect for sacred beliefs, values and religious and cultural symbols; contribution to the reconstruction and development  of Lebanon; the report of the External Auditor, especially the audit of the Education Sector; Israeli archaeological  excavations at the Mughrabi Ascent in the Old City of Jerusalem; and the draft declaration of principles relating to cultural  objects displaced in connection with the Second World War.
22.15 With the determination and dedication of all Members of the Board – complemented by the collaboration of the  President of the General Conference, Ambassador Musa Hassan, and the helpful support of the Director-General,  Mr Matsuura, and all of the Secretariat – we were able to bring together the key players and principal interested parties  and to ensure that all parties concerned worked diligently towards finding a solution that could be accepted and  embraced by everyone. Dealing with such potential crises efficiently and calmly, drawing on our organization’s  competences, we ensured that UNESCO was able to bring to bear its specificities in rallying the parties together. I truly  wonder whether this would have been possible to such a degree, even under the auspices of the highly politicized  Security Council or under the flag or umbrella of any other organization. UNESCO as the specialized agency with  possibly the broadest mandate in the United Nations system, but most certainly the most impactful one, was thus able to  demonstrate its particular added value in the settlement of international conflicts within its fields of competence. Through  the Board’s conscientious efforts and endeavours we were able to develop our own recommendations and decisions  which are before you – and which we took during the past two years without ever having recourse to a vote. This should  be testimony to both the quality of our decision-making and the relevance of our recommendations. We can only hope  that it will have a long-term impact for our Organization.
22.16 Distinguished delegates, yesterday I spoke of the work that the Board had undertaken concerning improved  relations between the three organs of our Organization. Allow me to pause for a moment to comment on the particularly  close working relationship between the Board and the Secretariat. During the biennium communication between the  Secretariat and the Board improved greatly. Information meetings were held between each session of the Board instead  of just once a year, allowing an informal and frank discussion between Members of the Board and the Director-General  and his team. These meetings have matured to such an extent that they play an important role in building mutual  understanding and trust, and more importantly, the information flow and the interactive ways for us to increase and  enhance the quality of the decision-making of the Board and its supervisory role, and also the efficiency of the Board’s  work. This is at the heart of efficient management of our Organization and the ownership of the countries of the  programmes implemented by the Secretariat. In addition, communication between the three organs was used to a great  extent during the past two years. Without trust and confidence between the Board and the Secretariat we could not have  managed to achieved what we did during the past two years. For this I should like to pay particular tribute to the Director- General, Mr Matsuura, and his entire senior team. Their unfailing collaboration with the Executive Board was a major  ingredient of our success. Thank you, Mr Matsuura.
22.17 Excellencies, ladies and gentlemen, the biennium was marked by a period of intense reform of the United  Nations system, with implications for UNESCO, especially as regards improvements in our contributions at the country  level. The “Delivering as One” approach helped to focus the work of the specialized agencies at large to be geared  towards national priorities and common goals at the country level. In this regard, the Executive Board held two very  interesting thematic debates during its 175th and 177th sessions. These policy discussions helped inform Members of  the Executive Board on current United Nations reforms, and their impacts on UNESCO on both strategic issues and  issues of the day falling within UNESCO’s fields of competence and having an impact not only at the global but  especially at the regional and country levels.
22.18 These thematic debates were designed to be part of our own policy discussion, thus helping to steer the Board’s  thoughts and provoking the Board’s thoughts, including in particular on the C/4 and C/5 documents. Without doubt, the  Board played a proactive role on these issues, ably supported by the Director-General in advancing the broader United  Nations reforms. As a specialized agency, we cannot content ourselves with just following suit, but while taking active  participation in these reforms while carefully proceeding from our own context and our own reality with proposals being  made beyond our walls. We must be able to focus on our specificities and our multidisciplinary capacities to implement  the programme at the national and regional levels in an intersectoral manner, thus providing the requisite added value for  delivering as “One UNESCO” within the broader “One United Nations”.
22.19 I am pleased to inform you, dear representatives, that an information document summarizing the main points  raised during the two thematic debates is now available as document 34 C/INF.19. Also, through our second thematic  debate held at the beginning of October 2007, the Board was able to demonstrate how we, as an organization, may be  capable of responding efficiently to new challenges facing the world. Yesterday, during his address to this august  assembly, His Majesty the King of Sweden accurately summarized the urgency of addressing this challenge. He said, I  quote: “We must act now by taking the right decisions. Action today is necessary for the sake of the future generations  and continued life on this planet.” After the Board’s thematic debate, we thought it necessary to place on the agenda of  the General Conference the Organization’s efforts to tackle global climate change.
22.20 Before concluding, Mr President, let me now turn to the work of the commissions and committees of the  Executive Board. I have already said that our work was a collective effort. It was thanks to the efficient examination of all  items addressed by the Board, through its subsidiary bodies, that we were able to achieve our objectives. Throughout
2006-2007 an increasing number of items were placed on the Board’s agenda, despite the scant time at our disposal.  Nevertheless, we managed to complete our work and record the accomplishments described in the report before you. As
44  I mentioned yesterday, we have a total of 226 decisions to our credit. And all of them were adopted by consensus! I shall  not go into details, as the pertinent information is before you in document 34 C/9 Part I, but, please first allow me to  highlight some of the more salient features of each of the Board’s subsidiary bodies.
22.21 In order to save time, the Board resorted to a mechanism, namely a joint meeting of its own main commissions,  the Programme and External Relations (PX) Commission and the Finance and Administrative (FA) Commission. It  enabled members of the PX and FA Commissions to examine certain items in a holistic manner. This experiment proved  fruitful and will, I am confident, be improved upon in the coming biennium. Consensus does not come about of its own  accord. It takes many informal working groups – each distinct and different from the other – and long hours,  complementing the work of examining items in the established commissions. Cognizant of the need for improved  efficiency, the two commissions – PX and FA – also decided to identify a series of items that could be disposed of  without discussion.
22.22 Separately, each of the plenary commissions had very charged agendas and a variety of responsibilities. The  Programme and External Relations Commission skilfully dealt with all the programme issues, from the implementation of  the Global Action Plan on Education for All through triangular South-South-North cooperation and a review of Major  Programmes II and III. It also examined questions on the ethics of science and technology and the implementation of  intersectoral strategies relating to philosophy, human rights and the fight against discrimination and to the protection of  endangered languages, especially in cyberspace.
22.23 The Finance and Administrative Commission examined and made recommendations under several broad  headings, including: management of Headquarters buildings; human resources management; evaluation and oversight;  management of extrabudgetary resources; and the Organization’s decentralization strategy. The Board also achieved a  real breakthrough by adopting the procedures and guidelines drawn up by the Committee on Conventions and  Recommendations for the monitoring of standard-setting instruments, which is the first mandate of this very important  committee of the Board. In so doing, it fulfilled a long overdue requirement for effective follow-up to the standard-setting  instruments adopted in UNESCO. As regards its second mandate, the Committee on Conventions and  Recommendations also examined communications received relating to alleged violations of human rights within the  Organization’s fields of competence in accordance with the procedure laid down in 104 EX/Decision 3.3.
22.24 The NGO Committee experienced a total revitalization over the period of the biennium. It now is set to focus on  the relevant nature of civil society’s contribution to promoting the Organization’s mission and its priorities nationally,  regionally and globally. It held several forums and round tables demonstrating the wealth of collaborative endeavour  upon which our Organization can draw. It also prepared the sexennial report of the Executive Board to the General  Conference on the contributions made to UNESCO’s activities by non-governmental organizations (NGOs) (2001-2006),  which will be examined by the General Conference’s PRX Commission. The Special Committee was vital not only in  examining the current report on the Board’s work before you – especially Part II concerning the manner in which the  Board will report to the General Conference at future sessions on its own examination of the implementation of the  programme by the Secretariat. The Special Committee also made proposals to the Board to enhance its own efficiency  and effectiveness and to examine the methods of work of the Organization. The Special Committee was called upon to  provide insights, for the Board’s appreciation, on the “Report by the Director-General on the implementation of the  UNESCO Evaluation Strategy”. It was also very helpful in providing recommendations to the Board on several  recommendations contained in 33 C/Resolution 92, that is to say, the relations between the three organs.
22.25 Finally, distinguished colleagues, accomplishing what we have in the past two years was a collective effort. The  Executive Board was able to draw upon the wise council of the President of the General Conference. I certainly  welcomed his friendly and timely advice. We were continuously supported by the Director-General and his senior  management team and the entire Secretariat. The Vice-Chairpersons of the Executive Board, the Chairpersons of his  Commissions and Committees all proved to be an efficient team. Let me also mention the two co-Chairs of the Drafting  Group, which disposed of a very challenging workload. Without all their willingness to accomplish the tasks at hand  together with the dedication of all the 58 Members of the Board and the support of the Chairpersons of the regional  groups and the Director-General and his team and, indeed, the entire Secretariat, our work could not have been  accomplished and our mission would not have succeeded. Thus, ladies and gentlemen, one should regard the Board’s  success really as a collective effort.
22.26 I have now completed my oral report on the activities of the Executive Board. Before opening the general policy  debate of this 34th session of the General Conference, I wish to express to all 193 Member States, to all the Associate  Member States and to the Permanent Observers to UNESCO as well as our associated non-governmental organizations  and other international organizations the following sentiments:
22.27 You all come from very diverse backgrounds and from every corner of the globe. Your contributions to the  Conference’s debates will be diverse and very enriching. It is precisely this richness in diversity that is our strength and  should remain so in the coming years as we continue on the path of the further relevance of UNESCO, working as one  for our collective betterment.
22.28 With these few words, Mr President, distinguished representatives, I am pleased and honoured to be able to  open the general policy debate. I am confident that the spirit of consensus, together with the momentum built by the  Executive Board and sustained over the past two years, will guide and inspire you in your own work in the coming weeks.  Thank you all for your kind attention.   (Applause)
23.1 The President:   I think that I am speaking for others more than for myself in thanking very much indeed the Chinese Chairman of  the Executive Board, Mr Zhang Xinsheng, not only for the report that he has presented to us. I would go even further and  say for the respect he has at difficult times shown to Members of this Organization, and we must recognize sometimes  taking his time against the counsels of some of the more impatient of us and in the end getting a good result, being borne  out by events, which is not what we always get. So I should like to note these things because, however important, they  are very interesting. Anyhow, I shall not now sketch out the Chairperson of the Executive Board’s contribution to  UNESCO; I will reserve my right to do so later, but I wanted to say that we are very thankful to him for the work he has  done, and there will be a chance to discuss it even further.
23.2 Now I will also say that the Board has done some good work during this two-year period, and part of document
34 C/9 will be examined in detail by the PRX Commission and at the interdisciplinary meeting. I am taking this occasion  to put to you the question of the interdisciplinary meeting because we had the discussion in the morning in the General  Committee, which prepares the work of the General Conference, and there were a few points of difficulty in  understanding this. It is an organ, which will not take decisions, but will have to make suggestions either to plenary or to  other committees, and it is supposed to help us with our work. I can understand that even if it does not have the  competence to take decisions, it can naturally influence our decisions by the way they suggest how to do this or that. We  are not stupid, we do understand these things. But it has been an idea to help us, and I wonder whether, in spite of some  reservations heard at the meeting of the General Committee, we could accept it in principle and judge it on its work;  because afterwards we would have a rather good idea of where it has helped or has not helped or has made matters  even worse and has confused things. I am not sure personally until they finally decide which way it is going to go. But if  this interdisciplinary committee – or team, I would say – is to start meeting this afternoon, I would have to approve it,  because I would not like such an organ, even if it does not have decision-making competencies, to start meeting without  the approval of the General Conference. That, I am sorry, I am not prepared to accept. The General Conference has to  know and to accept it in principle, even with reservations, which we will discuss at the end of the day. Can I take it,  therefore, that you are prepared to accept this experimental session of the new team? I see that there are no objections,  so let us start with this experiment, and we will see where it goes.   General policy debate  Débat de politique générale  Debate de política general  Обсуждение вопросов общей политики  א א   总政策辩论
24. The President:   Now I will ask the Director-General, Mr Koïchiro Matsuura, to take the floor and present his introduction to the  general policy debate. Mr Director-General, please.
25.1 Le Directeur général :   Monsieur le Président de la Conférence générale, Monsieur le Président du Conseil exécutif, Mesdames et  Messieurs les Ministres, Excellences, Mesdames, Messieurs. En m’adressant à vous pour la quatrième fois à l’occasion  du débat de politique générale, je ressens, comme au premier jour, une intense émotion. Émotion devant la diversité de  votre assemblée, représentant presque tous les peuples de la terre ; émotion devant la communauté d’idéaux qui nous  unit et que je suis plus que jamais fier et heureux de servir.
25.2 Cette occasion solennelle me conforte à chaque fois dans ma conviction que l’UNESCO n’est pas une  organisation comme les autres. Elle poursuit certes des objectifs partagés par l’ensemble des institutions internationales.  Mais elle les poursuit de façon bien spécifique, et que nous devons préserver. Cette spécificité tient à la façon dont nous  abordons les grands enjeux de notre temps, à notre démarche intersectorielle, à notre recherche constante de réponses  innovantes et à notre capacité à mobiliser des partenariats et des relais prolongeant notre action et démultipliant nos  moyens. C’est indéniablement notre « avantage comparatif ».
25.3 Certes, il nous faut rendre notre Organisation encore plus efficace et responsable. C’est toute l’ambition de la  réforme interne à laquelle je me suis attelé, et qui devra se poursuivre de manière constante et sur le long terme. N’est-il  pas, en effet, fondamental qu’une Organisation comme la nôtre sache s’adapter de manière continuelle non seulement  aux défis externes liés aux événements mondiaux, mais également à ceux, internes, qui nous invitent à améliorer  toujours davantage nos modes opératoires et notre fonctionnement ? Je me réjouis, à cet égard, que nous ayons su  démontrer une réelle capacité d’anticipation, de réaction et d’adaptation en prenant une part déterminante dans la  réforme engagée au sein de l’ensemble des institutions des Nations Unies.
25.4 À l’heure où il nous faut nous doter d’une stratégie pour les six années à venir, d’un cadre programmatique et  d’un budget, nous mesurons tous l’enjeu particulier de cette session de la Conférence générale et des décisions que  vous serez amenés à y prendre. J’espère que nos locaux en grande partie rénovés sauront faciliter vos délibérations et  faire écho à l’esprit de dialogue qui, j’en suis certain, ne manquera pas de régner dans notre enceinte.  (Le Directeur général poursuit en anglais)
25.5 Mr President, over the past two years I have remained steadfast in my determination to improve the way  UNESCO executes its mission. And I will continue to pursue this commitment vigorously to the end of my mandate. As I
46  have said, reform is imperative, not for reform’s sake, but to ensure that UNESCO continues to serve its Member States  with maximum competence, efficiency and accountability.
25.6 When I speak of competence, I am referring first and foremost to the Organization’s human resources. I start  with this because the quality of our work begins here – with our staff. This is why I put in place an integrated human  resources policy, to provide a comprehensive framework for building and managing an effective workforce. I also set up,  two years ago, a medium- and long-term strategy to ensure that this workforce corresponds to UNESCO’s programme  needs. While seeking to improve the quality of staff, I have also worked hard to extend geographical representation.  Indeed, I believe UNESCO can claim to be the leader within the United Nations system in terms of representing the  diversity of its Member States. Furthermore, given the critical importance of ensuring a high standard of ethical conduct  within the Organization, I am proposing to establish an Ethics Office. Among other things, the office would promote  mandatory ethics training for staff.
25.7 Another area where we have taken significant strides is in results-based management. This began some years  ago at UNESCO, making the Organization a pioneer within the United Nations system. The process of having to define  and measure results as part of a project design radically changes the approach to programme delivery. It obliges us to  focus on the impact and sustainability of our activities. This is not easy, but we welcome the challenge. I have invested  significantly in modern management tools to support and improve the monitoring of our programme implementation,  accounting system and human resources management. Internal oversight is also accorded great importance, so as to  bring to the Organization a systematic and evaluative approach to risk analysis and results-based management. You will  find a comprehensive evaluation plan in document 34 C/4.
25.8 Finally, let me add how much the Organization has benefited from the work of the Canadian and French  External Auditors appointed by the General Conference. I have followed their recommendations closely, most recently in  reinforcing the roles of the Comptroller and the Administrative Officers in order to safeguard their professional  independence and accountability as guardians of the Financial Rules and Regulations. I have also streamlined the  administrative rules for procurement to achieve greater competition, transparency and accountability. The overall impact  of such management reforms is to put UNESCO in a stronger position to achieve its programme objectives. This, in turn,  is making us a more credible and relevant actor within the United Nations system.
25.9 Mr President, with the publication of the report of the High-Level Panel on System-Wide Coherence, there has  been intense discussion on how the United Nations can “Deliver as One”, in particular at the country level. Since we last  spoke, UNESCO has fully committed itself to this process, and has become an energetic participant in United Nations  reform efforts. I believe that through our proactive engagement we have already helped to shape the debate, and will  continue to do so in the future. The concept of “Delivering as One” is very simple. It means United Nations agencies  acting together in a more coherent and complementary way, especially at the country level. Above all, it means  improving our responsiveness to the needs and priorities identified by countries themselves. It is a process driven by  country demand. This requires UNESCO to adopt a much more strategic approach to its country-level action, and to  think about how to shape its programmes vis-à-vis those of other agencies.
25.10 As you know, eight countries have been chosen in 2007 to test different modes of “Delivering as One”. UNESCO  has volunteered to be a part of this process, and is participating in all eight pilots. This has major implications for  UNESCO’s work, in terms of programme content, country planning and backstopping from Headquarters. Let me give  you some concrete examples of our response.
25.11 In education, we have introduced a new planning instrument – the UNESCO National Education Support  Strategy (UNESS) – to help UNESCO better align its work with country needs, and position itself more strategically in the  “Delivering as One” context. Our ultimate aim is for UNESS to become the basis of common country planning for all  United Nations agencies engaged in education. More recently, we have developed a new programming tool – the  UNESCO Country Programming Documents – to showcase the entire range of activities benefiting a particular country.  This increasing engagement in common country exercises has helped to clarify where UNESCO can bring real added  value to the work of United Nations country teams. It has been a catalyst for identifying where we are strong and for  developing and communicating our key messages. It has also made us appreciate the value of our direct contact with  line ministries. This relationship, always close, has become even more important within the context of United Nations  reform.
25.12 Such engagement has also demonstrated the critical importance of the technical assistance we provide. In  terms of development needs, we know the world faces a shortage of specialist expertise and knowledge. It was therefore  disturbing in the early stages of the debate on United Nations reform to note that the important development role of  specialized agencies such as UNESCO was not well recognized or understood. I took it upon myself to address this  issue by bringing together the five large specialized agencies and working with them to clarify how we can each  contribute, in a complementary way, to common country action. It is therefore with considerable satisfaction that I now  see broad acknowledgment of the value of, and demand for, our technical expertise. Indeed, I feel that the unity among  the specialized agencies is helping to increase our impact in the overall United Nations reform process. It is resulting in a  much more inclusive approach, with agreements to respect core mandates and thematic leadership.
25.13 Another positive result of our proactive engagement is the widening of the development agenda to include not  only the Millennium Development Goals (MDGs), but also other international objectives. Of great significance to  UNESCO is the increasing acknowledgement of the importance of education for all (EFA) to all aspects of development.  So, too, is the growing recognition of the need to integrate culture into development efforts. In this regard, I was very  encouraged to see the UNDP/Spanish MDG Achievement Fund include “culture and development” as an area for  funding. As you may know, UNESCO has been given the lead role in selecting projects for support. I realize that this
47  increasing engagement will clearly make new demands on our field offices and our ability to support them. Therefore, I  am continuing my efforts to reinforce UNESCO’s field presence. In the next biennium, I will create 62 new posts in the  field. I have also reactivated the Decentralization Review Task Force to take a fresh look at the implications of United  Nations reform for our decentralization strategy.
25.14 In its first phase, the Task Force has accomplished important work to clarify accountability frameworks and  related mechanisms, as well as recommending other immediate adjustments. With regard to the longer term, I will be  looking much more closely into the structural changes that may be needed to help UNESCO take up the challenges of  the evolving United Nations reform. This includes how we can better harness the potential of the extended UNESCO  family – National Commissions, university Chairs and networks, category 2 centres and clubs.
25.15 Before I leave the issue of United Nations reform, let me say a few words about another pillar in the High-Level  Panel’s report – the environment. Achieving greater United Nations system-wide coherence in this area is of crucial  importance, notably in response to the perils of global climate change. UNESCO is participating actively in the United  Nations response to this enormous challenge. We have, I believe, a unique contribution to make, based on over
40 years’ experience. This includes our longstanding work in climate science and observation, as well as our expertise in  mitigation and adaptation – especially through our flagship Intergovernmental Oceanographic Commission (IOC).
25.16 UNESCO’s real comparative advantage is its interdisciplinary approach. This covers a broad range of our  activities, from education for sustainable development, through heritage preservation, to the promotion of biological and  cultural diversity. Many of these activities are showcased in the General Conference Exhibition unveiled yesterday in the  presence of His Majesty the King of Sweden. To ensure that UNESCO can make an effective contribution to United  Nations-led efforts, we are developing an integrated strategy building on our strengths. It will be released in November.  (The Director-General continues in French)
25.17  Monsieur le Président, c’est dans ce contexte que nous avons été amenés à formuler nos propositions de  Stratégie à moyen terme, ainsi que du nouveau Programme et budget biennal. Lorsque je dis « nous », c’est pour  souligner le caractère collectif de ces propositions. Elles reflètent bien entendu mes propres analyses, mais également  les vôtres, États membres et Membres associés, collectées à travers un processus de consultation particulièrement  approfondi, qui s’est étendu aussi aux organismes du système des Nations Unies et aux autres partenaires  intergouvernementaux et non gouvernementaux.
25.18 J’estime que les propositions auxquelles nous avons abouti ont encore gagné en rationalité et en concentration.  Le travail minutieux effectué par le Conseil exécutif à sa session de printemps, et qui vous est présenté dans le  document 34 C/11, a permis d’en affiner la formulation. De plus, le caractère ajustable de cette Stratégie permettra  d’adapter ses orientations au fur et à mesure que le contexte international le nécessitera. Pour l’heure, les cinq grands  objectifs stratégiques primordiaux assignés à l’UNESCO s’inscrivent parfaitement dans les objectifs de développement  fixés par la communauté internationale. Ils se conjuguent pour assurer clarté et unité à notre action, une action définie à  travers un nombre limité d’objectifs stratégiques de programme, quatorze précisément.
25.19 L’intersectorialité est sans doute l’une des caractéristiques fortes de ces propositions. Elle est, en effet, un  avantage comparatif exceptionnel pour notre Organisation, dont les cinq domaines de compétence se conjuguent  aujourd’hui de manière particulièrement efficace pour lui permettre d’apprécier de nombreuses questions  contemporaines dans leurs dimensions multiples et interdépendantes.
25.20 La Réunion interdisciplinaire qui sera organisée pendant cette session pour la première fois ou encore la  création de plates-formes intersectorielles pour l’exécution de notre programme témoignent de l’importance centrale qui  est désormais accordée à cette démarche holistique. Une démarche holistique qui ne nous empêchera pas de cibler  toujours davantage notre action : au cours de cette Stratégie à moyen terme, l’Afrique et l’action en faveur de l’égalité  entre les sexes seront les priorités de l’Organisation dans l’ensemble de ses domaines de compétence. L’Afrique, parce  que c’est là que se situent les plus grands défis en matière de développement. Notre action se déploiera bien entendu  en pleine harmonie avec les priorités adoptées par l’Afrique elle-même, à travers l’Union africaine et son programme  NEPAD. L’égalité entre les sexes, parce qu’elle est indissociable d’un développement durable véritable, l’égalité étant  tout à la fois une fin et un moyen. Il sera impératif à cet égard de veiller à ce que les femmes bénéficient, au même titre  que les hommes, des programmes et politiques promus par notre Organisation.
25.21 Ainsi, l’impératif global consistant à contribuer à l’édification de la paix, à l’élimination de la pauvreté, au  développement durable et au dialogue interculturel, qui reste toujours d’une actualité et d’une urgence cruciales,  constituera notre énoncé de mission en tant qu’Organisation. Les cinq grands objectifs stratégiques que nous  poursuivrons dans ce cadre constitueront la trame de notre action. Défendre la cause d’une éducation de qualité pour  tous est et restera notre priorité. Une éducation de qualité qui permette l’avènement de sociétés qui ne soient pas  seulement durables et prospères, mais également intégratrices, tolérantes et pacifiques. Mobiliser les sciences au  service du développement durable sera le deuxième de nos défis. Il nous faut en effet, à l’heure où les avancées  scientifiques n’ont jamais connu un aussi grand essor, faire en sorte qu’elles puissent émerger du monde entier, et que  leurs bénéfices soient répartis équitablement. Faire face aux nouveaux défis sociaux et éthiques qui se posent dans des  domaines clés comme la bioéthique et les nouvelles technologies est également devenu un impératif pour garantir que  les forces du changement ne menacent pas les droits de l’homme ni les libertés fondamentales. Il nous faudra donc y  œuvrer, tout en renforçant les liens entre la recherche et les politiques dans le domaine des transformations sociales.
25.22 Mais le développement et le dialogue sont d’abord et avant tout des projets humains. Promouvoir la diversité  culturelle, le dialogue interculturel et une culture de la paix, c’est reconnaître que la culture accompagne toute l’activité  humaine et qu’elle est indissociable du développement. C’est aussi démontrer l’importance des échanges et du dialogue
48  pour la cohésion sociale et la réconciliation, et donner toutes ses chances à l’instauration d’une culture de la paix  véritable.
25.23 Enfin, édifier des sociétés du savoir inclusives grâce à l’information et la communication est un objectif  fondamental au regard de notre mission à plusieurs titres : pour promouvoir un débat pluraliste et participatif, seul garant  de sociétés stables et pacifiques, mais aussi pour élargir l’accès à une information de qualité qui puisse participer à  l’autonomisation des individus et des communautés, et partant à leur développement.
25.24 Ces cinq objectifs primordiaux, l’UNESCO doit les porter constamment en première ligne de son action au  niveau national, régional et mondial. Cette trame d’action se verra donc soutenue à des degrés divers à travers cinq  fonctions spécifiques de notre Organisation, qui constituent en quelque sorte son armature : un laboratoire d’idées ; un  organisme normatif ; un centre d’échange d’informations ; un organisme de développement des capacités et de  développement de la coopération internationale. Permettez-moi d’illustrer quelque peu mon propos.
25.25 L’une des premières fonctions reconnues à l’UNESCO est en effet celle de laboratoire d’idées. Par là, on entend  la capacité de l’Organisation à engager dans ses différents domaines de compétence des débats au sein de la  communauté internationale sur des enjeux globaux de façon informée, critique et réflexive. Je suis ainsi très satisfait de  voir aujourd’hui l’UNESCO pleinement engagée sur plusieurs grands chantiers. Tout d’abord, celui de l’éthique. Qu’il  s’agisse de la bioéthique, de l’éthique des sciences et des technologies, de la lutte contre le dopage dans le sport, ou de  la réflexion sur les droits émergents dans des domaines tels que l’environnement, l’UNESCO assume une fonction  active, unique au sein des Nations Unies. La façon dont nous pouvons intégrer les principes de la diversité culturelle et  du dialogue interculturel dans les politiques du développement durable en est un autre exemple. Ce travail se poursuit  aujourd’hui dans le cadre de la préparation du prochain Rapport mondial sur la diversité culturelle et de tous nos travaux  sur le dialogue interculturel. Enfin, la contribution intellectuelle de l’Organisation, manifestée lors des deux phases du  Sommet mondial sur la société de l’information (Genève, 2003 et Tunis, 2005) et dans son premier Rapport mondial  « Vers les sociétés du savoir », a permis de mettre en avant l’importance des contenus de l’information, et non  simplement des équipements et des infrastructures, et de promouvoir de nouvelles approches placées au service de la  lutte contre la « fracture cognitive ».
25.26 Monsieur le Président, il est une autre fonction clé dont s’acquitte depuis sa création notre Organisation, c’est la  fonction normative. Pas moins de 35 conventions, 31 recommandations et 13 déclarations ont en effet été adoptées par  la Conférence générale depuis la création de l’Organisation, qui ont donné corps à certains droits fondamentaux comme  le droit à l’éducation, le droit à la culture et le droit à l’information. Au-delà de l’élaboration de normes juridiques de  caractère international, cette fonction a permis la maturation d’idées-force qui se sont vues traduites, par la suite, dans  les législations nationales.
25.27 La période écoulée depuis que je suis devenu Directeur général, en novembre 1999, a été pour l’UNESCO l’une  des plus intenses de son histoire sur le plan de l’action normative. Quatre conventions, deux recommandations et cinq  déclarations – soit 11 instruments normatifs – ont ainsi été approuvées au cours des huit dernières années par la  Conférence générale. Sur les 35 conventions adoptées depuis la création de l’Organisation, 22 concernent le domaine  de la culture. Ainsi, l’UNESCO se trouve dotée d’un socle normatif exhaustif, apte à protéger et promouvoir, de manière  complémentaire, les multiples aspects de la diversité culturelle.
25.28 C’est bien entendu, au-delà de l’adhésion à ces instruments, par leur mise en œuvre effective dans vos pays  respectifs que vous permettrez aux idéaux dont ils sont porteurs de se traduire concrètement et de faire la différence.  C’est dans cet esprit que j’ai plaidé, lors des débats sur la réforme des Nations Unies, pour que notre mandat global au  niveau normatif ne soit pas dissocié de notre action sur le terrain.
25.29 Monsieur le Président, j’en viens à présent à une autre fonction de l’UNESCO à laquelle je suis très attaché,  celle de centre d’échange d’information. Dans le domaine de l’éducation, par exemple, le Rapport mondial de suivi sur  l’éducation pour tous, élaboré sur la base des données fournies par l’Institut de statistique de l’UNESCO, est un outil  indispensable à l’élaboration de stratégies éducatives nationales. L’Institut de statistique remplit bien évidemment par  excellence cette fonction dans l’ensemble des domaines de compétence de l’Organisation.
25.30 Dans le domaine de l’eau douce, le Programme mondial pour l’évaluation des ressources en eau (WWAP), dont  l’UNESCO assure le rôle de chef de file, permet d’améliorer les bases scientifiques et technologiques sur lesquelles  peuvent se fonder des méthodes de gestion rationnelle des ressources en eau.   (Le Directeur général poursuit en anglais)
25.31 Mr President, society’s ability to attain its development goals is determined by the capacity of its people and  institutions. This is why capacity-building is a constant thread running through both UNESCO’s Medium-Term Strategy  and the next biennial Programme and Budget. At the heart of these endeavours are our category 1 institutes. In  education, for example, the UNESCO Institute for Statistics (UIS) plays a vital role in helping countries develop statistical  capacity for effective evidence-based policy-making. This is complemented by the work of the other six education  institutes, which provide assistance in such key areas as educational planning, curriculum development, teacher training  and literacy.
25.32 The two category 1 institutes in the natural sciences are likewise central to our capacity-building function. The  Abdus Salam International Centre for Theoretical Physics (ICTP) in Trieste, Italy, is well known for its role in training  world-class physicians and mathematicians – policy-makers and practitioners alike – especially from the developing  world. In the last biennium alone, the Centre trained some 4,000 scientists.
25.33 Another example is UNESCO-IHE in Delft, Netherlands. As the largest water education facility in the world, and  the only institution in the United Nations system authorized to confer accredited M.Sc. and Ph.D. degrees, UNESCO-IHE  is best placed to respond to the urgent need to create a culture of sustainable water usage. In the coming biennium, it  will also offer training in the management of other environmental resources.
25.34 Mr President, UNESCO’s fifth and final core function is that of catalyst for international cooperation. Our  coordination of the global movement to achieve EFA offers a prime example in this regard. Halfway towards the 2015  target date, and notwithstanding the real progress that has been made since the World Education Forum in Dakar in
2000, we are still far from making basic education a reality for all. In this context, UNESCO is bolstering its coordination  role to give new energy and focus to the EFA movement. We have collaborated closely with the four EFA convening  agencies – UNDP, UNFPA, UNICEF and the World Bank – to develop the Global Action Plan on Education for All. Based  on each agency’s comparative advantages, the Global Action Plan provides a platform for coordinated multilateral  support to national EFA efforts. This initiative shows how UNESCO is putting into action the call for United Nations  agencies – including the World Bank – to “Deliver as One”. UNESCO’s priority for the coming biennium is to translate this  global platform into active cooperation at the national level. Following the request of the General Conference at its last  session, I have also re-sequenced the main EFA events in order to provide the High-Level Group with a much more  focused and action-oriented agenda.
25.35 UNESCO has further launched a series of regional and subregional literacy conferences to boost support for  one of the most neglected – but also one of the most crucial – EFA goals: that of reducing levels of adult illiteracy by 50%  by 2015. These high-profile events aim to build partnerships around literacy practices that work. They demonstrate how  UNESCO, as lead coordinator of the United Nations Literacy Decade, is rallying the world to the cause of global literacy.  These are just some examples of how UNESCO is working to galvanize the international community behind EFA.
25.36 The same leadership can also be seen in other areas. Let me cite the IOC coordination of the Global Tsunami  and Other Ocean-Related Hazards Early Warning System. Another example is SESAME, the International Centre for  Synchrotron Light for Experimental Science and Applications in the Middle East, which shows how UNESCO is not only  fostering regional collaboration on scientific issues but also contributing more broadly to international dialogue and  peace.
25.37 In the social sciences, the Management of Social Transformations (MOST) Programme has created strong  platforms for international and regional exchange, serving to strengthen links between research and policy. The same is  true in culture; heritage preservation is a collective responsibility, all the more so when it is in danger. UNESCO’s efforts  to mobilize international stakeholders to help safeguard cultural heritage in Afghanistan, Lebanon and Iraq demonstrate  our catalytic role. And this is an area where no other United Nations agency has the mandate to act. In this regard, I wish  to express my deep concern at the recent attacks by pro-Taliban militants on an ancient Buddha rock carving in  Pakistan, acts that recall the tragic fate of the giant Bamiyan Buddhas in Afghanistan. I call on the international  community to show solidarity against such wanton destruction of our common cultural heritage.
25.38 Mr President, the multiple challenges ahead have made the preparation of the programme and budget for the  next two years particularly complex. The Secretariat, with the guidance and support of the Executive Board, has put  much effort into crafting a proposal that responds to the needs of Member States in a strategic, results-based and  forward-thinking way. I am pleased to present to you the results of this work in my $631 million Programme and Budget  for 2008-2009, contained in draft document 34 C/4 second version and Corr. The discussion of the new budget ceiling  has dominated the Board’s work over the past year. I am most gratified that Board Members have unanimously accepted  my new proposal of $631 million and recommended to the General Conference that it adopt this budgetary level, as our  Chairperson of the Board has just explained to you. I hope that you will follow this recommendation and approve by  consensus the first budget for the new Medium-Term Strategy.
25.39 When it became clear that my initial core scenario of $648 million would not gain consensus support, I modified  my proposal, reducing the budget ceiling to $631 million. This budget level will provide the Organization with the  minimum requirements to pursue its objectives over the next biennium, and represents a break with the extremely  damaging cycle of zero nominal growth. Even if this is not the budget I may have hoped for, it is, most importantly, a  consensus budget. For this reason, I am convinced that this is a budget we must adopt.
25.40 UNESCO is unique in the United Nations system in its ability to reach consensus on this and other difficult  matters, without resorting to voting and thus alienating some of its Member States. This is indeed one of the highlights  that our Chairperson of the Board has just stressed. I believe that such unanimity is of inestimable value because it  ensures the engagement of all Member States around the goals. This is paramount for achieving our mission.
25.41 Thanks to the intense work of the Executive Board and its Drafting Group, the proposed Programme and Budget  is completely in line with the five overarching objectives and set of strategic programme objectives of our Medium-Term  Strategy. The proposed Programme and Budget also maintains the two global priorities of Africa and gender equality,  which have been built into all five major programmes and the related biennial sectoral priorities. It has furthermore  benefited from the results of the review of UNESCO’s science programmes, which I launched at the request of the  General Conference at its last session. At the present session, you will have the opportunity to examine my  implementation plan aimed at enhancing the relevance and visibility of our science work.
25.42 The new biennial Programme and Budget will allow the Organization to strengthen its intersectoral and  interdisciplinary approaches through the creation of intersectoral platforms, such as on HIV and AIDS, education for all,  sustainable development, response to post-conflict and disaster situations, climate change, support to small island  developing States, languages and multilingualism, dialogue among civilizations and cultures, and culture of peace.
25.43 As I noted earlier, responding to such complex issues in an interdisciplinary yet comprehensive way is one of  UNESCO’s comparative advantages within the United Nations system, and something we must nurture and develop. I  envision a UNESCO standing tall as an effective partner in the United Nations system. I envision a UNESCO which  performs at its best in all the functions entrusted to it – and which lives up to its mission statement to “contribute to the  building of peace, the eradication of poverty, sustainable development and intercultural dialogue” through its fields of  competence. I know I can count on your support and guidance on the challenging but exciting path ahead of us. Let us  join hands to pursue together the noble goals and objectives of our founding fathers, building on mutual trust and  confidence and helping to forge a better, more prosperous and above all a peaceful world. Thank you very much.  (Applause)
26. The President:   I would like on behalf of all colleagues to thank the Director-General very much for his report. It has been a  report of substance, as was the preceding one by the Chairperson of the Executive Board and they have given us, I  honestly believe, some good food for thought. So thank you very much, Mr Koïchiro Matsuura. I will go on now with the  general debate. I have asked one of our more experienced colleagues and one of the Vice-Presidents of this gathering,  Mr András Lakatos, to head the first part of the general policy debate. I will come back before the end of this morning’s  meeting. I am afraid that there has been some confusion in that the European Union – its Portuguese Presidency – has  got four minutes from Malta, giving it 12 minutes of speaking time. I am very sorry to have to ask you to go on until
1.30 p.m. to catch up on the morning’s delay. Meanwhile, I shall ask András Lakatos to take over.   Mr Lakatos (Hungary) takes the Chair.
(28.1) Mr Al-Sulaimi (Oman) (translation from the Arabic):   Bismillāh ir-rahmān ir-rah īm (In the name of God, the Merciful, the Compassionate). Your Excellency the President of  the General Conference, Your Excellency the Chairperson of the Executive Board, Your Excellency the Director-General, Your  Excellencies the heads and members of delegations, may the peace and blessings of God be upon you. It is my pleasure at  the outset to convey to you the greetings of His Majesty Sultan Qaboos bin Said, may God protect him and his subjects, and  His Majesty’s wishes of further success for you all. It is likewise my pleasure, in my capacity as head of the delegation of the  Sultanate of Oman participating in this session, to extend thanks and gratitude to all Member States for facilitating the task of  Dr Musa bin Jaafar bin Hassan, President of the 33rd session of the General Conference who, by virtue of your confidence in  him and your cooperation and solidarity with him, was able to manage the Conference proceedings and carry out his duties  over the last two years. In this context the Sultanate, celebrating its cooperation with UNESCO to enable the Organization to  achieve its goals of modernization and development in all educational, cultural and social fields, proceeds on the basis of  cooperation with the international community in all areas which serve all humanity. The Sultanate has signed a number of  international agreements in the field of youth welfare; these include its accession this year to the International Convention  against Doping in Sport. I should like to reaffirm to you the commitment of the Government of Oman to the highest ideals of  peace, justice, freedom and solidarity and the mission of education for all (EFA) and lifelong education to prepare a society  which values knowledge, fosters the culture of peace, defends human rights and realizes and fosters sustainable development.
(28.2) Excellencies, it is my pleasure here to extend warm congratulations to His Excellency Ambassador George  Anastassopoulos, Permanent Delegate of Greece to UNESCO, upon his election as President of this session. We are  confident that his experience and high culture will underpin the success of the 34th session of the General Conference. I  should not omit to extend salutations to His Excellency the Chairperson of the Executive Board, my good friend Zhang  Xinsheng, for his successful and distinguished management of the work of the Executive Board. Likewise, the work of the  Secretariat, under the leadership of His Excellency the Director-General, Koïchiro Matsuura, provokes our admiration and  esteem. I might point out that the reforms carried out in the Organization since he assumed management are one of the fruits  of his efforts which we sanction and commend.
(28.3) Mr President, I should like to express to you our desire to work with all States and regional and international bodies  and organizations to achieve the goals of the Medium-Term Strategy for 2008-2013, formulated after wide-ranging  consultations conducted by His Excellency the President of the General Conference and His Excellency the Director-General
52  during the preparatory stage, in a form satisfactory to the Executive Board and which shall enable UNESCO to respond to  current and future challenges. Our cooperation shall extend to the biennial sectoral priorities for 2008-2009 which seek to  realize the goals and international commitments reviewed in the revised Draft Programme and Budget. We shall adopt these in  our educational policy in order to focus on the education for all (EFA) goals of the Dakar Forum and the Millennium  Development Goals.
(28.4) Excellencies, I should like to make reference to the efforts made in the Sultanate to provide quality education for all  within the framework of both formal and non-formal education. In cooperation with UNESCO, a symposium and round table  meeting entitled “Education for All in the Sultanate of Oman: From Access to Success” were organized as a contribution from  the Sultanate to the sixtieth anniversary celebrations of the Organization, given that the Sultanate is one of the countries which  have achieved rates of growth in percentage enrolment since the Dakar Forum that are in excess of the plans drawn up to  achieve the desired goal. Within the framework of this activity, a discussion forum was held on development in education in the  Sultanate of Oman and other countries from various regions. During this forum, the international community became aware of  the achievements in the field of education in the Sultanate of Oman, particularly with regard to basic education, gender parity  and teacher training, in addition to literacy and adult education programmes, programmes for those with special needs, early  childhood care and the management of educational resources and services. UNESCO experts conducted an evaluation of the  Omani experiment based upon defined goals. The process of development is still ongoing to match programmes with the  desired development goals at both local and international level. These achievements reflect the continuing concern of the  Government of the Sultanate to support the education sector. In financial year 2007, the budget allocated to education in the  Sultanate was 30.2% of the State budget. It is worth noting that the Sultanate, active in the sphere of international solidarity,  has responded to UNESCO’s appeal to assist least developed countries which are anxious to spread education and eradicate  ignorance and poverty by providing a financial contribution to help Africa, allocated to EFA programmes.
(28.5) Excellencies, in the context of UNESCO’s perceived concern for innovation in the field of intercultural dialogue and  strengthening of the diversity of cultural contents and artistic expression, and in the endeavour to translate the concept of  intercultural dialogue into tangible reality, the Omani National Commission for Education, Culture and Science organized an  encounter in the Sultanate between a group of young people from different parts of the world to foster cultural exchange. In  view of the experiment’s success, we are resolved to continue such encounters, anticipating your support and backing in  highlighting this civilizational approach. On another front but still within the context of this subject, the Sultanate organized an  international symposium on “Dialogue among Civilizations and Cultures” in Muscat and another on “The Role of Oman in  Intercultural Dialogue” at UNESCO Headquarters in Paris as part of the “Omani Cultural Days” in June 2006. As regards the  ethics of science, the Sultanate hosted a UNESCO regional expert meeting on ethics teaching in Muscat from 27 to
28 November 2006. Twenty-five experts attended a discussion on how to teach science ethics and an explanation of how to  apply the Universal Declaration on Bioethics and Human Rights adopted at the 33rd session of the General Conference.
(28.6) Mr President, Excellencies and heads of delegations, the Sultanate is keen to foster environmental conservation and  the participation of peoples in achieving a safe and secure environment, and to encourage outstanding contributions on the  part of individuals, firms and organizations to protect the environment. In recognition by the international community of these  efforts, the Sultanate was chosen as one of the ten countries most concerned with the environment at international level. In  continuation of this path, His Majesty Sultan Qaboos bin Said, may God protect him and his subjects, issued a Sultani decree  establishing the Ministry of Environment and Climate Affairs as a new addition to the Sultanate’s system of concern for the  environment and climate affairs, which has become a matter of international concern and one of UNESCO’s strategic goals.
(28.7) Excellencies, while commending the effective working methods followed by UNESCO to measure the progress  achieved in realizing its goals, we should like to make reference to the Organization’s efforts in the preparation of the EFA mid- decade reports at the level of the various regions. These have had a positive impact in highlighting the efforts of Member  States and providing information about the challenges they face in order to help all countries achieve the goals successfully. I  should like to refer to the importance of the current process of reform in UNESCO to ensure optimal implementation of sector- based and intersectoral programmes at national, regional and global level in response to the national priorities of Member  States and preserve the unique characteristic of UNESCO within the United Nations system for the building of peace,  eradication of poverty, achievement of sustainable development and establishment of intercultural dialogue through education,  culture, communication and information. In this context, I am happy to express our full support for the UNESCO National  Education Support Strategy (UNESS) in which UNESCO participates in support of the joint United Nations’ efforts at the  country level. I should like to commend, too, the continuing validity of the Constitution of UNESCO from which the  Organization must draw inspiration to construct the defences of peace in the minds of men through its key functions in service  of the international community: a laboratory of ideas, clearing house, capacity-builder, catalyst for international cooperation,  champion of human rights, gender equality and the subordination of science to the achievement of sustainable development,  the fostering of cultural diversity, and linguistic plurality, the building of knowledge societies on the basis of the principles of  liberty and confronting crises and their effects, including natural and human-induced disasters. I should to affirm our support  for the directives of the Director-General of UNESCO announced at the 31st session of the General Conference regarding a  comprehensive plan of action to safeguard and restore the cultural heritage of the Old City of Jerusalem, and the  implementation of 33 C/Resolution 50.
(28.8) Mr President, Excellencies, faith in the mission of our Organization is growing and adherence to its goals is the  demand of the international community. The horizons for us to work together for progress, the common good and peace for  future generations are wide open. Waffaqakum allāh (May God grant you success). As-salāmu ‘alaikum wa-rah matu llāhi wa- barakātuh (Peace and the mercy and blessings of God be upon you).
29. The President:   Distinguished colleagues, I should like to thank His Excellency Mr Yahya Bin Saud Al Sulaimi, the distinguished  Minister of Education of Oman. Before asking the next speaker on my list, I would ask you please to respect the  recommended eight-minute time limit for statements. The next speaker on my list is Her Excellency Ms Maria de Lourdes  Rodrigues, the distinguished Minister of Education of Portugal, to whom I give the floor. Madam.
30.1 Mme de Lourdes Rodrigues (Portugal) :   Monsieur le Président, Excellences, Mesdames et Messieurs, c’est avec un grand plaisir que je m’adresse à  cette audience distinguée au nom des 27 États membres de l’Union européenne et des pays candidats – la Croatie, la  Turquie et l’ex-République yougoslave de Macédoine. Je saisis cette occasion pour présenter mes félicitations au
53  nouveau Président de la Conférence générale, M. Georges Anastassopoulos. C’est un honneur pour l’Union européenne  que l’Ambassadeur de Grèce exerce une fonction d’une telle importance et je lui souhaite plein succès pour son mandat.  Je voudrais aussi remercier le Président sortant, l’Ambassadeur Musa bin Jaafar bin Hassan, pour le travail entrepris au  cours des deux dernières années. Je félicite aussi Singapour qui vient d’être accueillie par l’UNESCO, il y a à peine  quelques jours, comme 193e État membre.
30.2 L’Union européenne croit fermement que le multilatéralisme est une voie essentielle dans la recherche de  solutions aux problèmes mondiaux. Cette Conférence générale est une opportunité pour commencer un nouveau cycle,  et la Stratégie à moyen terme jusqu’à 2013 sera déterminante pour l’avenir de l’UNESCO. Les principaux rôles de  l’UNESCO devraient être : la recherche et le conseil à la formulation de politiques, l’activité normative, le suivi et le  renforcement des capacités au niveau des pays. Pour l’UNESCO, le processus de réforme des Nations Unies constitue  un moment décisif pour élargir sa contribution au système international et pour y agir plus efficacement. Nous sommes  confiants qu’il est aussi le moment adéquat pour développer une gestion axée sur les résultats, pour mettre en oeuvre la  transparence et l’obligation redditionnelle à tous les niveaux.
30.3 Nous sommes également favorables à la révision de la politique de décentralisation en cours, afin de rendre la  présence de l’UNESCO plus effective au niveau des pays et d’améliorer la coordination avec les autres institutions des  Nations Unies. L’UNESCO est de plus en plus reconnue pour le rôle positif qu’elle joue dans l’initiative «Unité d’action  des Nations Unies», et nous encourageons le Directeur général à poursuivre dans cette voie.
30.4 Sur le plan régional, l’Union européenne et l’UNESCO se rejoignent pour considérer l’Afrique comme une  priorité, et dans ce contexte le prochain Sommet UE-Afrique, qui se tiendra à Lisbonne les 8 et 9 décembre, devrait être  un moment décisif pour établir une coopération triangulaire – Union européenne/Afrique/UNESCO – une coopération  constructive et enrichissante dans les domaines de l’éducation, des sciences, de la culture, de la communication et de  l’information. S’agissant des pays africains, l’UNESCO devrait cibler son action sur le conseil à la formulation de  politiques, en vue du renforcement des capacités, et contribuer à des programmes concrets, notamment dans des  domaines, comme le VIH/sida et le manque d’eau potable, qui éprouvent le continent africain.
30.5 Sur le plan sectoriel, l’éducation est une autre priorité mondiale. Le droit à l’éducation est fondamental en  matière de droits de l’homme et doit être garanti aux 77 millions d’enfants qui ne sont toujours pas scolarisés. La  communauté internationale doit continuer à déployer tous les efforts et prendre les initiatives nécessaires pour garantir  d’ici à 2015 une éducation primaire de qualité, gratuite et obligatoire. Le combat contre l’analphabétisme des adultes et  pour la scolarisation des filles en vue d’atteindre la parité des genres et les objectifs de l’Éducation pour tous demandent  des mesures urgentes. L’Union européenne soutient pleinement la Décennie des Nations Unies pour l’alphabétisation et  la Décennie des Nations Unies pour l’éducation au service du développement durable.
30.6 Nous considérons essentiel que la dimension culturelle soit un élément transversal de toutes les politiques au  niveau national et international. Il y a un besoin vital de renforcer davantage le Dialogue culturel, en particulier dans le  cadre de l’Alliance des civilisations. L’Alliance pourrait servir de catalyseur à des initiatives pilotes élaborées dans le  cadre de partenariats nationaux et régionaux, ainsi qu’entre différentes organisations et structures internationales ou  régionales. Elle pourrait aussi contribuer à garantir l’équilibre, la cohésion et la coordination entre diverses initiatives. De  notre point de vue, l’Alliance a clairement une portée politique en tant qu’outil pour la paix. L’Année européenne du  dialogue interculturel, qui sera célébrée l’an prochain dans le cadre de l’Union européenne, présentera aussi des  chances d’encourager l’esprit de paix et de concorde. L’Union européenne souscrit pleinement aux principes de la paix  et des droits de l’homme qui sont à l’origine des Nations Unies. Si l’UNESCO n’est pas en tant que telle une organisation  des droits de l’homme, il est toutefois très important qu’elle adopte, dans tous les domaines de son mandat, une attitude  ferme en matière de droits de l’homme.
30.7 En décembre de cette année commencera la célébration du 60e anniversaire de la Déclaration universelle des  droits de l’homme, et un plan d’action devra être approuvé par cette Conférence. Dans ce cadre, l’Union européenne a  demandé qu’une attention spéciale soit accordée à deux thèmes qui font partie intégrante du mandat de l’UNESCO : l’un  est l’éducation aux droits de l’homme comme pilier de la formation de la citoyenneté et l’autre est la protection des  journalistes, qui risquent leur vie dans la défense des droits de l’homme et de la liberté d’expression. L’Union  européenne souhaite que des initiatives sélectionnées contribuent efficacement à la diffusion et au respect de ces droits  partout dans le monde.
30.8 Permettez-moi maintenant, Monsieur le Président, de m’adresser à vous et aux délégations ici présentes, au  nom de mon pays, le Portugal. Je le ferai dans ma langue maternelle.  (L’oratrice poursuit en portugais ; texte français fourni par la délégation)
30.9 (traduit du portugais) Si j’interviens en portugais, ce n’est pas simplement pour m’exprimer dans ma langue,  mais c’est aussi pour attirer l’attention sur l’importance symbolique des langues, en tant qu’instruments d’identité. Le  Portugal suit avec intérêt les efforts déployés par l’Union européenne et par le Conseil de l’Europe pour promouvoir le  multilinguisme et soutient les initiatives de l’UNESCO pour préserver le pluralisme linguistique.
30.10 Ce sont les caractéristiques propres à la langue portugaise qui appellent notre intervention dans ce domaine.  Langue parlée par plus de 200 millions de personnes sur tous les continents, le portugais constitue un lien qui rassemble  une communauté de huit États membres de l’UNESCO : le Portugal, le Brésil, l’Angola, le Mozambique, le Cap-Vert, Sao  Tomé-et-Principe, la Guinée-Bissau et le Timor-Leste. La Communauté des pays de langue portugaise – la CPLP –  forme un vaste espace de dimension pluricontinentale, et de nature nettement interculturelle. Notre langue est à l’heure  actuelle l’une des plus parlées au monde, en particulier dans l’hémisphère occidental, et connaît une expansion
54  importante en Amérique et en Afrique. Il est certain que c’est une des langues de communication internationale les plus  importantes. C’est une véritable langue d’avenir. Or, elle ne jouit pas du statut qui devrait lui être réservé.
30.11 C’est pour cette raison que nous pensons qu’il existe un terrain considérable pour approfondir la coopération  entre l’UNESCO et la CPLP. Dans ce sens, je souhaite renouveler l’appel que le précédent Président de la République  portugaise, M. Jorge Sampaio, a lancé il y a deux ans lorsqu’il est intervenu devant la 33e session de la Conférence  Générale de l’UNESCO.
30.12 L’UNESCO intervient en faveur de l’alphabétisation en Afrique. L’un des Objectifs du Millénaire pour le  développement est important, c’est l’Éducation de qualité pour tous. L’Afrique est et doit rester une priorité. Nous  réaffirmons l’engagement du Portugal en faveur de la coopération avec l’Afrique, tant au niveau bilatéral qu’au niveau  multilatéral. Nous souhaitons être à la hauteur de nos responsabilités historiques et relever les défis qui se présentent à  nous aujourd’hui, à nous et à nos partenaires européens. Pour cette raison, nous nous sommes engagés, dans le cadre  de la Présidence du Conseil de l’Union européenne, à concrétiser cette idée par un sommet entre l’Europe et l’Afrique  qui ne s’est pas tenu depuis sept ans.
30.13 La coopération pour le développement de la langue portugaise trouverait un terrain privilégié dans le cadre  d’une intervention prioritaire de l’UNESCO : l’éducation. La coopération dans le domaine de l’éducation est certainement  un investissement durable et fécond. Il est impératif d’assurer la formation des professeurs, la formation des formateurs.  C’est un des domaines principaux de la coopération possible entre l’UNESCO et la CPLP. Il est très important que l’on  insiste sur la recherche, que l’on adapte des mesures plus efficaces, notamment dans le sens de la promotion de la  justice et de l’égalité.
30.14 Dans le cadre de l’Union européenne, nous avons entrepris des efforts vigoureux dans ce sens. Il y a aussi le  travail réalisé par l’UNESCO dans ce domaine, et je pense en particulier au Bureau international d’éducation de  l’UNESCO. Puisqu’il est question de la défense d’une langue comme le portugais, je dois évoquer la Convention sur la  protection et la promotion de la diversité des expressions culturelles, qui est entrée en vigueur. Le Portugal a déjà ratifié  ce texte. Si la mondialisation permet des contacts dans des canaux différents et une plus grande expression culturelle,  encore faut-il avoir accès à ces canaux. La Convention a considéré expressément la préservation et la promotion de la  diversité culturelle par des mesures permettant de promouvoir la diversité des organes de communication sociale, en  particulier le service public de radio et de télévision. Ceci est important dans un monde qui est de plus en plus planétaire  et où les migrations exigent que les sociétés soient ouvertes. Nous devons donner la parole à chacun de nos pays, dans  un esprit de respect, de tolérance et de diversité culturelle. Il ne peut pas y avoir de compromis quant aux valeurs de  l’humanité même, telles que celles qui sont inscrites dans la Déclaration universelle des droits de l’homme.
30.15 Pour conclure sur une parole d’encouragement et de confiance, je dirai que la mission que l’UNESCO poursuit  dans certains domaines est essentielle pour le développement humain ; je suis donc persuadée qu’avec les efforts  conjoints de tous, avec un bon choix de priorités et en concentrant notre action sur certains points, nous pourrons  véritablement répondre à l’espoir que met en nous une grande partie de l’humanité. Le Portugal, avec la responsabilité  qui lui incombe en tant que membre du Conseil exécutif, fera tout dans ce sens. Je vous remercie de votre attention.   (Applaudissements)
31.1 Le Président (traduit du portugais) :   Je voudrais remercier vivement S.E. Mme Maria de Lourdes Rodrigues, ministre de l’éducation du Portugal,  pour son intervention au nom de l’Union européenne et de son pays. En respectant la limite des 12 minutes, elle a  apporté une contribution très utile à nos travaux.  (Le Président poursuit en anglais)
(32.1) Mr Al-Khouzaei (Iraq) (translation from the Arabic):   Bismillāh ir-rahmān ir-rahīm (In the name of God, the Merciful, the Compassionate). Mr President, your Excellencies  the heads and members of delegations, distinguished ladies and gentlemen, may the peace and blessings of God be upon  you. From the land of the Euphrates and the Tigris whose people have kept an eternal, human, civilizational inheritance safe  for more than 7,000 years, from the ancient land of Iraq where certain individuals devised a written language for  communication and conveyed to the whole world a culture founded to record and write down laws through their eternal  obelisks. From the land of the eternal messages and values, I carry for you all a bouquet of roses and love which I scatter  among your blessed gathering. It is redolent with the fragrance of gratitude and thankfulness to the knights of UNESCO and to  all those who have extended succour and support to the people and children of Iraq in the steadfast battle against terrorism  and blind, hateful violence, hardening the resolve of our people to rebuild a new Iraq on the bases of love, justice, concord,  reconciliation and harmony. I affirm that the Iraqi memory shall retain all the archives of cooperation shown to us by friends  and rendered by brothers and we shall return these affectionately, gratefully, handsomely and faithfully to each of those who  stood beside us in the days of trial, periods of suffering and times of crisis.
(32.2) Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, thirty-five years of an odious dictatorship which dealt with its people and  neighbours with nothing but the language of death, violence and destruction, squandering the resources and wealth of Iraq on  its reckless wars, did not end as all tyrannies do but was brought down by a crushing earthquake which wrought havoc on the  remaining institutions and capabilities of our state. As the dust of war cleared, we found ourselves facing the ruins of a country  which would take decades of constant toil and effort by our people and the world to rebuild. We, the Iraqis, have a deep belief  that before us is a wounded hero whose name is Iraq, needing someone to bandage its wounds so that it may once again be a  fit hero which will contribute as it did before, with its God-given, prodigious resources, to the service of people and humanity.  That is not a false promise and pledge.
(32.3)  Brothers and sisters, education, culture and the sciences experienced a great share of this destruction. I am not  divulging a secret by admitting to you that we did not start from zero but from below zero and from underneath the ruins. And  believe me, the damage done to people was greater and more serious than the damage to bricks and mortar, as exemplified  by frustration, deprivation, confusion and disconnection from a world making rapid strides in the field of knowledge. Teacher  and student withdrew into the island of their own woes and sufferings for more than 35 years of siege imposed by the  totalitarian regime on the land of civilizations and its people. In the Ministry of Education, ladies and gentlemen, we found  ourselves with half a million destitute teachers and six million students as victims, a broken-down education system, a  backward curriculum and all school buildings empty, in a state of collapse and lacking the most basic amenities, without  libraries, laboratories, computers, teaching aids and often no seats, chairs or desks. Moreover, we face a serious shortage of  school buildings – the estimate is more than 4,000 – forcing us to cram large numbers of students into classrooms which  cannot hold them. Sometimes three schools use the same building in shifts, although it is collapsing, dilapidated and old.  Seventy percent of school buildings are in need of total or partial renovation and repair and teaching staff require upgrading  and training. Although we have been able to train more than 30% of teachers, repair more than 500 schools and build 360 new  schools throughout the provinces in the last two years, the gap between our possibilities and needs is still wide. However,  despite all these challenges, we have resolved to continue along the path of reform by modernizing the educational system,  strengthening educational capabilities, developing curricula and bringing teaching methods up to date through openness to the  world, making use of accumulated international experience and regional and international cooperation in this area. We have
56  completed the formulation of an educational philosophy based upon the joint abilities of all elements of the Iraqi people. This is  the philosophy we shall employ in reviewing educational curricula to foster a climate of dialogue and atmosphere of mutual  understanding and achieve fairness and equality on the basis of citizens’ rights, without bigotry, violence and extremism and  affirming dissemination of the principles of tolerance, respect for the other, a deepening of the democratic path and  consolidation of the principles of human rights, as well as our concern for non-formal education, the eradication of illiteracy,  accelerated learning, increasing the number of model schools, schools for gifted students and schools for outstanding students  and making use of the possibilities and aids of technology in schools generally. We have achieved a rather significant increase  in teachers’ salaries and allowances to lift this self-sacrificing group out of privation. By the grace of God, we shall exert  exceptional efforts to improve their economic conditions and professional capabilities. In facing such tasks and responsibilities,  we are spurred on by a great expectation that UNESCO and the international community shall stand beside the Iraqi Ministry  of Education to support it in its task and speed up achievement of the vision both we and they desire of a strong and resurgent  Iraq able to confront the challenges through a scientific and educational vision which lays the foundations for comprehensive  development which, we believe, begins from the spaces of science and education. We have resolved to advance upon this  path in the certainty that your support for us will be a great boost, etching in the memory the finest memories of all those who  rendered a favour to our people. Here, I should not neglect to remind the senior figures of UNESCO and all the nations of the  world of their historic responsibility to support Iraq by conserving its antiquities and recovering those that have been lost.  These represent the history of a people and heritage of a nation, the record of life and beacon of civilizations crying out to you  all to save them. Thank you for all you have done and all that you shall do. As-salāmu ‘alaikum wa-rah matu llāhi wa-barakātuh  (Peace and the mercy and blessings of God be upon you).  (Applause)
33. The President:   The Minister of Education of Iraq. The next speaker on my list is His Excellency the Honourable Dato’ Seri  Hussein Hishammuddin, Minister of Education of Malaysia. Your Excellency, please.
34.1 Mr Hishammuddin (Malaysia):   Bismillāh ir-rahmān ir-rahīm (In the name of God, the Merciful, the Compassionate). Mr President, your  Excellencies, distinguished representatives, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the Government and people of Malaysia,  I thank you for the honour and privilege of addressing this august gathering. I also take this opportunity to congratulate  Singapore and Montenegro on joining UNESCO’s family this year, and their participation clearly reflects the continuing  trust and hope in UNESCO as it celebrates its 60th year of existence. This was further reflected in the words of Dr Musa  Hassan yesterday when he said: “We in UNESCO continue to dream of a better world. We in UNESCO continue to hold  on to that dream.” For Malaysia, this is an especially apt statement as we celebrate the 50th year of our independence  this year. I cannot find a more significant time to be in Paris to share our dream with you. Ladies and gentlemen,  Malaysia fully appreciates UNESCO’s broader reform agenda. We agree with the Director-General that these reforms  must continue and, in an era of unprecedented change, we need to seek new ways to respond to change in  unprecedented ways. We are inspired by UNESCO’s mission and unequivocal commitment to the internationally agreed  aims of peace and harmony among diverse peoples of the world. We embrace UNESCO’s mission of building peace,  eradicating poverty, ensuring sustainable development and promoting intercultural dialogue. On that note, we are  pleased to report to the General Conference that we in Malaysia have successfully increased the literacy rate among our  population to more than 90%, and reduced the poverty rate from almost 50% in 1971 to 5.7% in 2005, reducing the  hardcore poor from 6.9% to 1.9%, with plans to eradicate poverty, hardcore poverty altogether by the year 2010. Our  Prime Minister recently announced the abolition of school and examination fees and the provision of free textbook loans  for all. This effectively means that our people enjoy free education up to secondary educational level. Hence, for  Malaysia 50 years after independence the principle of providing EFA, education for all, is still central to our conception of  nation-building.
34.2 Delegates, much has been said, and I am sure much more will to continue be said in the next few days about  globalization, liberalization and the clash of civilizations. How today justice, democracy and human rights might be under  threat. How today justice, peace and dignity for all become challenges that we all need to face. Economically we now  operate in a globalized environment in which growth is driven by innovation and knowledge. Politically we now operate in  a globalized environment in which local and international events are inevitably linked in complex and unpredictable ways.  At the same time, knowledge – knowledge that is now digitized, networked, automated, pervasive and instantaneous – is  becoming a larger and more important component of economic values. From gigantic, transnational, capital flows to  suicide bombings, we suddenly find ourselves caught up in a globalized telecommunication reality to an extent that we  have not really begun to appreciate. Today we have no choice but to revise the distinction we make between the global  and the local, the domestic and the foreign, the local and the international and even in remote areas and in border areas,  people are no longer citizens of only one country. The school has always been the place in which Malaysia has placed its  hopes of a better future for our children. We want our children to grow in knowledge and ability and to flourish in both  personal and social virtues. We want our children’s personal and economic horizons to expand, but crucially it is also the  place in which we hope that treasured cultural and communal identities, whether national, ethnic or religious, are  cultivated and also protected. Education in schools can easily become the place in which we can be most pragmatic, but  also most emotional. It can very easily become contested territory; for example, a measure taken for practical reasons in  the light of global realities, the decision to teach science and mathematics and English, can easily raise heated cultural  and ethno-linguistic defences. Communal conflicts and tensions are repressed in arguments about our schools. The  unfortunate Minister of Education cannot please everyone, and as often as not ends up pleasing nobody.
34.3 Distinguished representatives, I agree with Mr Zhang, Chairman of the Executive Board, when he said  yesterday: “Peace without development and development that is not sustainable is meaningless.” But it is also true that,  as we stand at a turning point in our history, we also stand with some unique advantages and also opportunities; for  example, Malaysia’s greatest challenge at independence, our diversity, is now clearly one of our greatest assets. We  have come to appreciate more and more that the value of our national cultural diversity is a strength. We are beginning
57  to think of multiculturalism beyond just a compromise between race and religion, not just a contract to live and let live, but  an exciting invitation to work together and to create a unique society together. We are beginning to be less defensive of  our diversity, of seeing only the potential sensitivities and pitfalls, we are beginning to be proud of it and to teach our  children to see the opportunities in it, to benefit from it, make capital of it and leverage it. This is the opportunity in what  was once the shrouded danger of our racial religious diversity; it turns out that unity, prosperity and openness are not just  harmonious but mutually necessary goals. It turns out, ladies and gentlemen, that the economy is not something  standing beyond culture but a vital expression of our culture. This is the way globalization becomes within national and  regional boundaries a force that we can harness for cohesion rather than alienation.
34.4 Now, ladies and gentlemen, the search for an accommodation between many races, many cultures and many  religions is now the world’s problem. But the conditions under which we continue to build and reform UNESCO, the very  special Constitution of UNESCO and the times in which we now find ourselves give us a good reason to feel that the arts  of cultural accommodation we have learned from UNESCO are invaluable beyond our respective borders. UNESCO’s  diversity is built on a peaceful and harmonious coexistence, not merely of individuals who happen to be different from  one another but of entire communities with distinct histories. UNESCO is an overlapping set of relationships between  communities which remain distinct and integral. To conclude, through new dimensions of exchange, collaboration,  mutual learning and mutual advancement, together we can dream of becoming better at living together. Integrating  seemingly unintegrated diverse systems and for the youth of tomorrow of our collective future, let us hold on to this  dream. Thank you. Inna llāha walīyu t-taufīq (It is God who grants success). Sallà llāhu ‘alaihi wa-sallam (God bless him  and grant him salvation).  (Applause)
35. The President:   I thank the distinguished Minister of Education of Malaysia, the Honourable Dato’ Seri Hussein Hishammuddin.  Sir, as you said, an education minister cannot please everyone. Let me tell you that I am absolutely sure that with the  excellent results of your country, you can please very many in this room. I thank you for your contribution. Distinguished  colleagues, the next speaker on my list is Her Excellency Ms Sheikha Al Mahmoud, the distinguished Minister of  Education of Qatar, to whom I give the floor. Your Excellency, please.  א ٣٦,١  ):(א א  א א.א א ، א א א.א א א א א א ، א א א ،.אא א א א ، א א א א א א א א א א א א א ،א א א א א א א א א.א א ، א א א א א א אא א א א א א ، א א א א א ، א א א אא.א א א א א א א א א ، א א א א.א א א אאא א א א א א א א א א א ، א א א א א אא א א  .אא
(36.1) Ms Al-Mahmoud (Qatar) (translation from the Arabic):   Bismillāh ir-rahmān ir-rah īm (In the name of God, the Merciful, the Compassionate). Brothers and sisters, may the  peace and blessings of God be upon you. It is my pleasure to congratulate His Excellency the President of the Conference on  the occasion of his election as President of the 34th session of the General Conference. I also thank the President of the  previous General Conference, Dr Musa bin Jaafar bin Hassan, for his efforts in the previous session. Distinguished gathering,  despite the problems and challenges our peoples have faced in the past and are currently facing in many areas of life, we still  firmly believe that we are capable of confronting these challenges as long as our efforts and action are combined and united  under the umbrella of brotherhood, tolerance and cooperation. We are certain that we shall achieve a secure, dignified life for  humanity, if we continue to work together within an international framework based on mutual respect and equality. The  greatest challenges faced by nations and peoples are those covered by the basic themes of UNESCO’s activity and the  Organization gives its full attention to such challenges as the dissemination and diffusion of education, regarded as the  entranceway to human development, the protection of the cultural heritage to preserve the national identity of peoples and the  fostering of scientific research, through which societies may be improved and a comfortable life achieved. As such, there is a  pressing need to establish an international commitment vis-à-vis the poorest countries whose material conditions and heavy  indebtedness affect achievement of the goals of the education for all (EFA) initiative, which is a cornerstone of this  Conference’s agenda. At these conferences, we look out upon the increasingly difficult situation in many parts of the world and,  from this educational, cultural and scientific platform, we again draw attention to the anticipated dangers of this negative  situation. We again recall the consequences of this situation and the threats and risks it holds for the whole world. Each of us  is certainly aware of the role played by the fruits of education in regulating the balance of the world and obviating serious  problems and present and future conflicts.
(36.2) Brothers and sisters, the issues raised at this conference in all areas, particularly with regard to the education sector  and, specifically, matters relating to global leadership in EFA and the establishment of strong international partnerships in this  field, require effective working mechanisms and urgent executive measures in respect of the issue of EFA, which we consider  to be the most important issue at the global level. The creation of global networks for capacity development in educational  policy, planning, monitoring and evaluation is, in our view, one element which will support our efforts and show clearly the  extent of our progress. In this connection, allow me to propose that our august Organization considers the possibility of  allocating financial support for those poorest countries which have been able to make tangible achievements vis-à-vis this  issue and, similarly, to countries in a similar position which may achieve fruitful results in the course of the next phase. There  is no doubt that the creation of competition in this area may be one way of supporting this most important and prominent issue.
(36.3) Brothers, the wise leadership of the State of Qatar, headed by His Highness Sheikh Hamad bin Khalifa Al-Thani, Emir  of the State of Qatar, perceives that education is everyone’s human right and a basic requirement for the achievement of  democracy and sustainable development. Accordingly, education in our State has received considerable attention and  constant support at all levels, producing fruitful results and bold and daring measures toward achieving the EFA goals, in  addition to achieving our own educational goals. We now have an educational system based upon independence and  accountability, permitting the right of choice, freedom of diversity and respect for the other. With this system, we have been  able to eliminate the qualitative gap in education, achieve gender equality and eliminate the aspects of gender disparity. The  qualitative transformation in education and emphasis upon quality are exemplified by a number of measures, including national  standards for curricula, professional standards for teachers and school heads, comprehensive educational assessment of  students, evaluation of school performance, sustainable professional development, an academic structure prepared in  accordance with the most modern designs, electronic education and information technology. As education is the right of  everyone, it is also the responsibility of everyone. Therefore, societal and international partnerships have an effective role to  play in supporting educational advancement. The State of Qatar has spared no efforts to aid and support all international,  regional and Arab endeavours to help implement educational programmes and projects in poor countries throughout the world,  whether by upgrading and building institutions or providing academic and financial grants. Certainly, the hosting last March by  the State of Qatar of the conference entitled “Literacy Challenges in the Arab States Region: Building Partnerships and  Promoting Innovative Approaches” is a good indicator of Qatar’s support for international efforts and endeavours and of its  continued cooperation with organizations. Her Highness Sheikha Mozah Bint Nasser Al-Missned, Vice President of the  Supreme Education Council, was awarded the international Chatham House Prize in appreciation of Her Highness’s active  role in the field of education and social development. Ladies and gentlemen, as education receives the attention of the  leadership, so this attention extends to protection of the heritage and culture, both of which are considered as a human  inheritance and basic element of national identity. I should not neglect to salute UNESCO for its considerable efforts in this  and other areas and for its concern with the preservation of the cultural heritage. We call upon it to adopt a just position  consistent with its humanitarian goals and call upon it to strive with all its powers for the cessation of all activity which violates  the cultural heritage of Jerusalem. We stress the importance of the issues put forward for discussion at this Conference in
59  relation to the communications sector, particularly the issue of promoting an enabling environment for freedom of expression  and freedom of information, particularly in view of the marked retreat in this area, not only in the developing countries, which  have witnessed suppression of freedoms and the trail and arrest of journalists, but also in the developed countries. While the  justifications may differ, the results are the same and the consequences, negative, if there is no desire for a climate of  freedoms, which is the base and foundation of progress and peace. We want UNESCO to continue to carry the message of  peace, concord and connection between the peoples of the world through ties of affection and positive cooperation. We want it  to continue the spread and development of education, for that is our point of departure for the achievement of our goals. We  do not wish politics to enter the corridors of UNESCO, fragment its efforts and influence its decisions. Thank you for your  attention. As-salāmu ‘alaikum wa-rahmatu llāhi wa-barakātuh (Peace and the mercy and blessings of God be upon you).
(38.1) Mr Al-Obaid (Saudi Arabia) (translation from the Arabic):   Bismillāh ir-rahmān ir-rah īm (In the name of God, the Merciful, the Compassionate). As-salāmu ‘alaikum wa-rah matu  llāhi wa-barakātuh (Peace and the mercy and blessings of God be upon you). Mr President of the General Conference,  Mr Chairperson of the Executive Board, Excellencies, brothers, I salute you all and salute the efforts of UNESCO in its  constant endeavour to spread science and knowledge and propagate the values of peace, tolerance and brotherhood. Thank  you to His Excellency the Director-General of UNESCO and his colleagues for their efforts and endeavours to develop the  work of the Organization, promote its civilizational role and carry out its mission. It is my pleasure to extend gratitude to His  Excellency the President of the previous session, Mr Musa Hassan, for his efforts over the last two years and I wish  Mr George Anastassopoulos, the new President of this session, every success. We ask God to give to all succour, success  and sound judgement in discharging the task of this Organization.
(38.2) Ladies and gentlemen, education in Saudi Arabia receives the interest and attention of the State. In the course of this  year, the Ministry of Education has been reorganized in order to lighten the inherited burden of its responsibilities.  Responsibility for culture has been transferred to the Ministry of Culture and responsibility for more than 120 colleges has  been transferred to the Ministry of Higher Education. Responsibility for museums and antiquities is currently being transferred  to the Supreme Commission for Tourism. The Ministry has been given support to enable it to keep pace with scientific and  technical progress in the field of public education. My country’s Government has recently approved the King Abdullah bin  Abdulaziz Project for the Development of Public Education, a qualitative project which includes four main programmes:  curriculum development, upgrading teacher qualifications, improvement of the educational environment and fostering of  extracurricular activity. The State has doubled the allocations for school building, research and technology for programmes  and activities in the endeavour to provide a better educational standard and educational environment.
(38.3) Ladies and gentlemen, within the framework of Saudi Arabia’s continued support for this Organization and its  programmes, His Royal Highness Crown Prince Sultan bin Abdulaziz, Deputy Prime Minister, Minister of Defence and Aviation  and Inspector-General, made a donation of SR 1,000,000 to support the Arabic language website and the translation of  research, publications and the proceedings of sessions and meetings and field reports into Arabic. His Royal Highness  affirmed that the donation was an extension of Saudi Arabia’s support for this Organization, having been one of the founding  States 60 years ago.
(38.4) Ladies and gentlemen, Saudi Arabia’s concern for the civilizational and cultural heritage at both domestic and  international levels is of the same measure as that which these receive from UNESCO. At international level, Saudi Arabia has  extended considerable financial and moral support to the preservation of the civilizational and cultural heritage and has  coordinated with the concerned bodies, institutions and councils. The most recent of these efforts was related to the  conservation of the cultural heritage of the Old City of Jerusalem. We in Saudi Arabia are looking forward to supporting the  outcome of the special plenary meeting of the Executive Board held in April 2007 which affirmed the importance of the  universal values of the cultural heritage of the Old City and the importance of protecting and safeguarding it. At the same time,  we stress our alarm at the damage being done to the heritage and sites of Jerusalem and support His Excellency the Director- General’s initiative to safeguard and restore its cultural heritage, appreciating His Excellency’s effort to apply 33 C/Resolution
50 designed to safeguard the cultural heritage of the Old City of Jerusalem . On another front, Saudi Arabia acceded this year  to the Convention for the Safeguarding of the Intangible Cultural Heritage and to the First and Second Protocols to the Hague  Convention for the Protection of Cultural Property in the Event of Armed Conflict. On the domestic front, Saudi Arabia cares for  the cultural heritage at the official and popular levels. Saudi Arabia boasts a vast store of heritage and antiquities pertaining to  the many civilizations and peoples which settled in the region. These include Mada’in Saleh, which we look forward to being  incorporated soon in the World Heritage List, and which shall be one of the windows through which the world will view aspects  of the civilizational and cultural store of Saudi Arabia.
(38.5) Ladies and gentlemen, in a world in which the international community is competing to shape its future place in the  knowledge structure, Saudi Arabia is in a phase of transition to a knowledge society and economy through concern for the gifts  of creativeness and inventiveness in support of sustainable development and the strengthening of the underpinnings of the  national economy. This will represent an active contribution to the international partnership for the building of a common future.  The Kingdom’s existing development plan focuses on a number of priorities, including the expansion of programmes of applied  science and scientific research, sponsorship of talented and creative individuals, the creation of technology parks, organization  of competitions, backing for scientific inventions and exhibitions and the transformation to a knowledge society. In this context,  the King Abdullah University of Science and Technology has been established and the necessary sums have been allocated  to enhance electronic transaction programmes in government departments. Saudi Arabia has exerted considerable efforts to  combat and eradicate the escalating violence and terrorism of recent years which has created cracks in international and  family relations, by holding conferences and symposiums. The Ministry of Education has made an enormous contribution in  this area, in cooperation with the competent bodies.
(38.6) Ladies and gentlemen, the delegation of Saudi Arabia has studied the Organization’s Draft Programme and Budget for  the coming biennium and is satisfied with the various ambitious programmes and projects in all areas of the Organization’s  activity which it contains. To further those efforts, we ask God to grant help and success to everyone working for the  happiness of humanity and to enable the Organization to achieve the goals with which it has been entrusted. Thank you. As- salāmu ‘alaikum wa-rahmatu llāhi wa-barakātuh (Peace and the mercy and blessings of God be upon you).  (Applause)  Mr Anastassopoulos resumes the Chair.
39.1 The President:   I thank His Excellency, Professor Abdullah Saleh Al-Obaid, distinguished Minister of Education of Saudi Arabia,  for his important contribution. Distinguished colleagues, as you see, it is 1 p.m. We still have some speakers but, before  giving the floor to the last speaker for this morning, I would ask for your comprehension. First I would like to give the floor  to Ms Ina Marčiulionytė, Ambassador of Lithuania and Chairperson of the Credentials Committee. And after the report,  please, we will have as the last speaker for this morning, the distinguished representative of Kenya.
39.2 I would like to congratulate you on your election as Chairperson of the Credentials Committee. Congratulations,  Madam, and you have the floor please.  First report of the Credentials Committee  Premier rapport du Comité de vérification des pouvoirs  Primer informe del Comité de Verificación de Poderes  Первый доклад Комитета по проверке полномочий  א א  א 全权证书委员会的第一次报告
40.1 Ms Marčiulionytė (Lithuania) (Chairperson of the Credentials Committee):   Excellencies, ladies and gentlemen, I know that everybody is very hungry, and I promise that the report will be  very short, but I do hope that, knowing that you have your credentials in due form, you will have a much better appetite.
40.2 At its first plenary meeting held on Tuesday, 16 October 2007, the General Conference of UNESCO, in  accordance with Rules 26 and 32 of its Rules of Procedure, established a Credentials Committee for its 34th session  consisting of the following Member States: Barbados, El Salvador, Kenya, Kuwait, Lithuania, Netherlands, Norway,  Samoa and Slovakia. The Credentials Committee held its first meeting at noon on the same day. The Committee elected  Ina Marčiulionytė, Ambassador and Permanent Delegate of the Republic of Lithuania to UNESCO, as its Chairperson. At  the Chairperson’s request, the Legal Adviser informed the Committee of the criteria for deciding whether the credentials  were in due form as laid down in Rule 23 of the Rules of Procedure of the General Conference. This rule provides that  credentials of delegates and alternates shall be issued by the Head of State, the Head of the Government, the Minister  for Foreign Affairs or another minister authorized by the Minister for Foreign Affairs to issue credentials. The Legal  Adviser also explained the meaning and implications of the expression “provisional credentials” as used by the  Secretariat. The Secretariat informed the Committee of the state of the credentials received so far by the Secretariat. The  Committee concluded that the credentials of the following Member States had been issued in conformity with Rule 23 of  the Rules of Procedure of the General Conference, namely that the credentials had been issued by the Head of the  State, the Head of the Government, the Minister for Foreign Affairs or another minister authorized by the Minister for  Foreign Affairs to issue credentials. The delegations of the Member States appearing on the screen were accordingly  considered to be duly accredited. The Committee recommends that the delegations of the above Member States be  allowed to take part in the work of the General Conference at its 34th session. The delegations of the Member States –  again on the screen – have sufficient credentials in the form of notes, letters or other documents issued by a minister  other than the Minister for Foreign Affairs and not so authorized by the latter, by the head of the diplomatic mission, by  the Permanent Delegation to UNESCO or by a senior governmental official. The Committee proposes that these notes,  letters and other documents be accepted as the provisional credentials of delegations of the Member States concerned,  subject to later presentation of credentials in due form, and that in the meantime, these delegations be allowed to take  part in the work of the 34th session of the General Conference. Credentials in due form have been submitted by the  delegation of the Associate Member, also on the screen. Provisional credentials have also been received from the  delegation of the Associate Member. The Committee has also received credentials in due form for the observer  delegation – on the screen – and provisional credentials for the Observer Delegation. The Committee proposes that  these credentials should also be accepted. The delegations of the [above] Member States have not yet submitted  credentials. The delegations of the [above] Associate Members have not yet submitted credentials, as you also see on  the screen. And we also have an observer delegation that has not yet submitted credentials.
40.3 So this is the report, and we encourage all Member States that have not yet submitted their credentials to submit  them as soon as possible, and also those who have provisional credentials to submit the proper ones. If you have any  problems or questions, you can always approach the Credentials Committee, me or the Secretariat, and we hope that we  will have all credentials, maybe in two days’ time. Thank you very much.
41. The President:   I wish to thank Ina Marčiulionytė on behalf of all for a difficult job well done and providing a clear idea of the  various difficulties. It is quite logical, I agree, provisionally to accept all delegations encountering problems until they  produce the regulation documents. I would now like to ask if there are any comments on this report from Member States.  Since I see none, we can consider that the General Conference takes note of the first report by the Credentials  Committee, with all the remarks made, and I would like to apologize for a small error because we failed to give the floor  to His Excellency, the Honourable Professor Peter Msolla, MP, Minister for Higher Education of Science and Technology  of the United Republic of Tanzania, who will speak in the afternoon. Nor have we given the floor to H.E. Professor  George Saitoti, MP, Minister of Education for Kenya. I also apologize for this and I would ask him to close this morning’s  discussion. Professor Saitoti. Please, you have the floor.
42.1 Mr George Saitoti (Kenya):   Mr President of the General Conference, Mr Chair of the Executive Board, Mr Director-General of UNESCO,  Ministers, distinguished delegates, it gives me great pleasure to congratulate you, Mr President, on your election as the  President of the 34th session of UNESCO’s General Conference. On behalf of the Government of Kenya, I extend our  best wishes for a successful Conference. May I also take this opportunity to thank Mr Koïchiro Matsuura, Director- General of UNESCO, for visiting Kenya in May 2007. Allow me to commend UNESCO for organizing this Conference.  These bi-annual conferences not only facilitate intellectual dialogue but nurture solidarity among Member States in the  areas of education, science, culture and communication, thus contributing fundamentally to world peace and progress.  Mr President, Kenya aims at providing quality education and increasing access so that its citizens can contribute  effectively to national development, improve their lives and participate in today’s knowledge-based economy. In this  regard, Kenya has since 2003 embarked on sector-wide reforms targeting all levels of the education sector. The  government recognizes that early childhood development and education (ECDE) provides children with a fairer and  better start in life and increases their chances of enrolling in primary school at the right age. Investments in this subsector  have been increased; and a national ECDE policy has been developed and is being implemented. As a result, the  national gross enrolment rate at this level has increased from 52.7% in 2002 to 57.9% in 2006, an increase of 6.2%.  Primary education has also experienced tremendous growth following the implementation of the free primary education  programme in 2003. Enrolment has grown from 5.9 million pupils in 2002 to 8 million in 2007. Our current gross  enrolment rate stands at 112.4% while the net enrolment rate is at 86.5%. However, a number of challenges still remain  and these include: inadequate infrastructure, regional and gender disparities, high demand for teachers to match the  enhanced enrolments, as well as quality concerns.
42.2 In order to address these challenges, the government developed sessional paper No. 1 of 2005 that was  translated into a five-year implementation and intervention strategy. The government has invested heavily in school  infrastructure, provision of instructional materials, capacity-building of teachers and managers at all levels, as well as  other intervention programmes targeting the various vulnerable groups.
42.3 Mr President, secondary education provides a firm foundation for tertiary education, training and the world of  work. The current gross enrolment rate of 32% is of concern, and the government has therefore put in place a number of  initiatives to improve access, equity, retention, quality and relevance of secondary education. Over the last four years the  government has spent $12.2 million on science equipment and $34.3 million on bursaries between 2005 and 2007.  Additional funds have been disbursed to assist arid and semi-arid lands (ASAL) and other vulnerable groups, especially  girl children and orphans. The government has also allocated $66.1 million in the current financial year to provide tuition  fees for all students in public secondary schools with effect from January 2008. This aims at making secondary education  affordable, thus expanding access. At the university level, the government has developed a strategy that intends to:  increase the transition rate from the current 3% to 10% by 2015; improve quality and relevance of learning; establish  reliable, diversified and sustainable mechanisms for financing university education; and enhancement good governance.
42.4 Mr President, Kenya recognizes and appreciates the special focus placed on sub-Saharan Africa within the Draft  Programme and Budget (34 C/5) for the natural sciences. Science, technology and innovations (STI) are critical drivers  for achieving sustainable development, economic growth and poverty eradication, and for enhancing competitiveness  among global economies. Indeed, STI is the foundation of the government’s Vision 2030, whose goal is to transform  Kenya into a middle-income country by the year 2030. Mr President, the government has also established a National  Research Endowment Fund with an initial seed fund of $3 million. An effective STI system also depends on the strong  foundation of mathematics and basic sciences. Kenya, therefore, supports the initiatives started by the International  Basic Sciences Programme (IBSP). We note, however, that the Draft Programme and Budget has not allocated  adequate resources to IBSP, and hope that Member States will address this imbalance. Kenya welcomes UNESCO’s  proposal to promote capacity-building for sound management of disaster preparedness and mitigation. We are grateful to  UNESCO for having chosen Kenya to host the fourth session of the Intergovernmental Coordination Group for the Indian  Ocean Tsunami Warning and Mitigation System in February 2007.
42.5 Mr President, Kenya supports UNESCO’s initiative for the promotion of ethics of science and technology, and in  particular bioethics in Africa. We thank UNESCO for establishing the first Regional Bioethics Documentation and  Research Centre at Egerton University in Kenya, making it the focal point for dialogue and the development of bioethics  policies in Africa. Mr President, as a signatory to major international human rights instruments, Kenya will continue to  safeguard citizens’ rights through equal opportunities, justice, peace and economic prosperity for all its citizens.
42.6 Mr President, culture plays a central role in socio-economic development of the country and imprints on its  citizens a unique identity. The respect, recognition and nurturing that we have accorded our rich and diverse heritage  continues to foster Kenya’s national unity. To ensure that the country continues to celebrate and reaffirm these cultural  diversities, the government has developed a comprehensive national cultural policy. Kenya hosted the Fifth Session of  the Conference of African Ministers of Culture in Nairobi in December 2005. The conference issued the Nairobi  communiqué which declared 2006 as the African Year of Languages, and established the African Academy of  Languages (ACALAN).
42.7 Mr President, Kenya regards freedom of expression as a fundamental human right, and is committed to  developing a knowledge society in line with the World Summit on the Information Society (WSIS) report of 2003-2005.  Kenya also considers ICT and the media as important vehicles for enhancing citizens’ participation in the development  process and contributing to poverty eradication. In this regard, ICT integration at all levels in the education sector is being  undertaken along with implementing the broad-banding initiative. Mr President, in spite of the many challenges, we  believe the world – and Africa in particular – has a bright future. We remain convinced that greater economic support by  the North, especially the promise made during the G8 Summit, will go a long way in fast-tracking the economic progress  of the South for a safer and more equitable and prosperous world community. Kenya will continue to be a committed  Member State in the realization of these noble ideals. I thank you very much indeed, Mr President.  (Applause)
43. The President:   I must in turn thank Professor Saitoti for having made a number of points and for having just managed to keep  within his allotted time. I mean, he talked a little too rapidly, but very well in the last part, and he was quite all right. I am  sorry that I will have to announce the end of the meeting and the adjournment for 3 p.m. I am really very sorry because  we have been pressing you, and we know that the recesses are very short indeed. But, as you know, there are many  demands from ministers who want to leave. We cannot really ask them to replace their speeches for the next day or for  the day after. I well know that they also have other conferences and we are honoured by their presence, and we try to  arrange as much as possible, but as you know, as much as possible it is not always good enough. Thank you very much.  I am reminded that Mr Millward would also like to say a few things to you and I am giving him the floor. Go ahead,  Mr Millward.  Announcement  Annonce  Anuncio  Сообщение    通知
44. The Secretary:   Thank you, Mr President. Very quickly just to remind you that there is a round table in the context of the official  exhibition currently taking place in Room IV between 1 p.m. and 3 p.m. on ”Climate Change and Indigenous Peoples:  Impacts and Responses. Room IV. Thank you.
45. The President:   This time I might still put an end to the meeting. Thank you very much. Bon appétit.  The meeting rose at 1.50 p.m.  La séance est levée à 13 h 50  Se levanta la sesión a las 13.50  Заседание закрывается в 13.50  א א١,٥٠א   会议于 13 时 50 分结束