1. The President:   I would like to open this afternoon plenary meeting of the General Conference of UNESCO. The first person on  my list of speakers is His Excellency Mr Rustam Qosimov, Deputy Prime Minister of Uzbekistan, to whom I would like to  give the floor. First, though, please allow me to greet him in his native language, Uzbek. Please, Sir, the floor is yours.
2.1 Mr Qosimov (Uzbekistan) (address delivered in Uzbek; English text provided by the delegation):   Mr President of the General Conference of UNESCO, Chairperson of the Executive Board, Director-General,  Excellencies, ministers, distinguished delegates and representatives of international organizations, ladies and  gentlemen. Allow me to add my voice to the chorus of congratulations, Sir, on your election to the high post of President  of the General Conference, and allow me to wish you every success at the helm of this high-level world organization. I  would also like to express my gratitude to Mr Musa bin Jaafar bin Hassan for his outstanding conduct of our Organization  over the past two years. Taking this opportunity, I would like to extend sincere congratulations to Singapore, which has  rejoined UNESCO recently, and to Montenegro, a new Member State of our Organization. Thanks to UNESCO, we have  a unique opportunity to discuss and exchange opinions on major important issues of spirituality and enlightenment in the  development of the world community, to develop a framework for a new strategy, calling for the involvement of peoples in  and consolidation of efforts on the protection of peace and humankind.
2.2 Mr Karimov, the President of the Republic of Uzbekistan, on the occasion of the 155th session of the UNESCO  Executive Board held in Tashkent, put forward his thesis that spirituality and enlightenment will save the world. More than  ever today we believe that it is necessary to cooperate in bringing about an improvement in the quality of literacy and the  promotion of cultural diversity. I would therefore like to express my heartfelt thanks to Mr Koïchiro Matsuura for efforts  made aiming at improving the effectiveness of UNESCO’s activities and at allowing our Organization to cooperate more  closely with other agencies of the United Nations system.
2.3 Ladies and gentlemen, the Republic of Uzbekistan supports the UNESCO Draft Programme and Budget for
2008-2009 as proposed by the Director-General. The sectoral priorities proposed in that document will be the basis for  our success, and will guarantee success in the practical implementation of the Medium-Term Strategy for the  Organization for the period 2008-2013. I would also like to stress that we need to pay more attention to improving the  quality of education. In the Republic of Uzbekistan, which continues to enjoy 100% literacy among its people, the quality  of education is something that is considered not only to be part of the development of teaching methods and establishing  a modern educational infrastructure. It goes beyond that, to encompass enhancing and improving the role and  participation of educational institutions in the development of local communities (mahalla), and in ensuring that everyone  can enjoy access to lifelong learning. We are grateful for UNESCO’s cooperation in undertaking large-scale and  innovative reform within Uzbekistan’s education system, through the widening of the UNESCO Associated Schools  Project Network and UNESCO Chairs, the development of a social partnership on vocational training, the introduction of  inclusive education to socially vulnerable groups in our society, as well as the development of educational programmes  for sustainable development and promoting international understanding.
2.4 Yesterday, at the interregional meeting of the UNESCO National Commissions, a recommendation was made  that greater attention be paid to the science programme. In this respect, the Republic of Uzbekistan is now proposing  that UNESCO departments be opened in academic and scientific research institutions. In UNESCO, looking at the  programmes on natural sciences, we believe that it is essential to apply an intersectoral approach to issues of water  resource management and the development of basic and engineering sciences. In particular, the Republic of Uzbekistan  is proposing the establishment of a category 2 UNESCO regional centre for studies of solar energy. This would be at the  existing “Sun” complex, which is located near Tashkent. In social and humanitarian sciences, as well as broadening the  bioethics projects that exist, we believe it is important to start on a process of preparing international norms on urban  landscape planning within the scope of the Management of Social Transformations (MOST) Programme.
2.5 We are obliged to UNESCO for innovative projects involving the preservation of our global cultural heritage.  Thanks to UNESCO, the enormous cultural wealth of Uzbekistan has become accessible to the world community, and  year by year we see greater efforts to safeguard for future generations both the tangible and intangible heritage of the  ancient cultures of countries along the Great Silk Road. Two months ago in Uzbekistan, with the assistance of UNESCO,  and the direct participation of the President of the General Conference, we celebrated the sixth international music  festival “Sharq Taronalari” (Eastern Melodies) in Samarkand, and there were 300 artists from more than 50 countries  who participated in this cultural forum. Within the scope of that festival, there was an international conference on music  synthesis and other kinds of art. With every year that goes by, there are ever more participants in this festival, and those  who participate come from a broader range of countries. We believe that this is an excellent example of what can be  achieved.
2.6 This year in the Republic of Uzbekistan and at UNESCO Headquarters, we have also seen a number of cultural  events and scientific conferences that were held dedicated to the 2,750th anniversary of the foundation of Samarqand  and the 2,000th anniversary of the foundation of Margilan. Both of these jubilees were included in the list of UNESCO  calendar events. It is our sincere hope that the General Conference will support our new initiatives on the celebration of
185  the 2,200th anniversary of the foundation of the city of Toshkent in 2008-2009, which has been declared a capital of  Islamic culture by the Islamic Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization (ISESCO). This is recognition of our  country’s policy focusing on the development of our society and contributing to dialogue among cultures and civilizations.
2.7 Next year is International Year of Planet Earth and therefore that should be reflected in all of the programmes of  our Organization. We are concerned by the fact that the international community appears to be beginning to forget the  problem related to the environmental disaster in the Aral Sea. We are requesting UNESCO to support our initiative on  the Aral Sea catastrophe and its impact on human health. I thank you for your attention.   (Applause)
3. The President:   I thank the distinguished Deputy Prime Minister of Uzbekistan, His Excellency Mr Rustam Qosimov, for his  important statement. Now I would like to ask His Excellency Mr Shri Arjun Singh, Minister of Human Resource  Development of India to take the floor. As a token of respect, let me please greet you in your mother tongue, Sir.
4.1 Mr Singh (India):   Mr President of the General Conference, Mr Director-General, Excellencies, distinguished colleagues, ladies  and gentlemen, the 34th session of the General Conference is being taken care of by Ambassador Anastassopoulos  from Greece, a country with which India shares historical and civilizational links. Sir, my warmest greetings to him. Let  me also pay tribute to Ambassador Musa bin Jaafar bin Hassan of Oman, who provided leadership as President of the  last session of the General Conference. We also welcome Singapore’s return to UNESCO.
4.2 We live in times that are rapidly, and even bewilderingly, changing. We see these changes in our countries and  across the world. Change which helps to reduce illiteracy and disease, and which leads to the spread of knowledge can  only be regarded as being a force for good. Not all change, though, is desirable. There are also situations that do not see  the change they warrant. In the twenty-first century, there are still across the world pockets of abject poverty. So while  there is much to celebrate, there is even more to cause concern. UNESCO, the heart and mind of the United Nations  system, must be equipped to address these challenges. The thematic debate held by the Executive Board on 2 October
2007, the birthday of Mahatma Gandhi, is a positive step towards understanding UNESCO’s contribution in facing the  challenges of knowledge societies and global climate change. The Executive Board’s decision, which was initiated by the  Asia and the Pacific group and which recalls Gandhi’s adage – and I quote – “welfare of the last and impact on the least  privileged is of immediate importance…”, invites the Director-General to continue contributing to the global efforts to  address climate change within UNESCO’s mandate and competencies”. It is heartening to note that the efforts of the  Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change headed by Dr R.K. Pachauri in raising awareness of climate change have  been duly recognized by the international community by awarding the Nobel Peace Prize to be shared jointly with Mr Al  Gore.
4.3 South-South cooperation and North-South-South cooperation, particularly for education, is a key mandate of  UNESCO. India is glad that its contribution of $20,000, the first such contribution, has led to the establishment of the  South-South cooperation fund for education. Pilot projects should now be designed for developing countries in conformity  with the requirements of different regions. Education, defined broadly, is at the heart of UNESCO’s mandate. Literacy is  one of our core mandates, as are technical and vocational education, skills formation, non-formal education and adult  education. The Dakar goals must remain in focus. The Government of India is committed to education for all (EFA). We  have made strenuous efforts to increase domestic funding of our core programmes. We have concentrated on  elementary education. India’s initiative in running the largest schoolchildren feeding programme is now duly recognized  in having brought nutrition to the forefront, pulling even the most disadvantaged children to the schools for midday meals  prepared with the full participation of the mothers and the local community. We anticipate an exponential growth of  demand for secondary education. However, the lack of resources and donor fatigue pose a serious challenge for further  expansion of EFA in the E-9 countries. The General Conference must set the tone for the discussions of the meeting of  the EFA High-Level Group in December 2007. We are targeting an increase of the gross enrolment ratio for higher  education from the present 10% to at least 15% in the next five years. We are also working towards increasing the public  expenditure on education to the level of 6% of GDP over this period. We have in recent years taken several informative  actions to extend the benefits of education to the underprivileged and deprived sections of society.
4.4 Mr President, it is often forgotten that the “S” in “UNESCO” represents “science”. Our mission is in science  education. The poor popularization of science and the development of a scientific temper, and our concerns regarding  the development of science education, training of teachers for science and mathematics and the encouragement of  research and development have been reflected to some extent in document 34 C/4. India participated as a member of  the Overall Review Committee on Major Programmes II and III. We remain committed to both programmes and look  forward to participating in the separate round table on science and technology, as well as in the deliberations on this  issue at this session of the General Conference. Some years ago, India hosted the International Ministerial Conference  on the Dialogue among Civilizations – Quest for New Perspectives. The complexities of promoting such a dialogue can  be addressed to the New Delhi Declaration and through actions in UNESCO’s domain. India is concerned at the  perceived shift in UNESCO’s policy regarding protection of cultural objects and their return to their place of origin. For  this reason, India, along with Greece, Iraq, Italy, Mexico and Senegal, requested the inclusion of a new agenda item on  this issue at this session of the General Conference on enhancing the protection of cultural objects through the fight  against the illicit traffic in them and the development of museums in developing countries. UNESCO must play a lead role  on this matter.
4.5 Mr President, the preservation and celebration of the world’s tangible and intangible heritage is the most public  face of UNESCO. It is this that gives us both recognition and prestige around the world. We should do whatever it takes
186  to strengthen the UNESCO World Heritage Centre. The reform of the UNESCO World Heritage Centre should not result  in over-centralization and must maintain flexibility. India is home to 22 historical cultural sites and five natural sites, with  the Red Fort at Delhi being the most recent addition to the World Heritage List.
4.6 In view of the fact that the time allotted has run out, I would humbly request that my the text of my full speech  may be read. In the end, I would only say that India’s role coincides with the role of UNESCO. In UNESCO we have  unfettered faith and trust that humanity may at least come into its own in the near future. Thank you.   (Applause)
5. The President:   I would like to take this opportunity to thank very warmly His Excellency Mr Shri Arjun Singh, Minister of Human  Resource Development of India. I would like to assure him and also the Indian delegation, the excellent delegation led by  Ambassador Mukherjee, very active in all activities of UNESCO, that the entire text of this intervention will be distributed  in due course. I thank you. The third speaker on my list is His Excellency Honourable Alberto Romulo, Secretary of  Foreign Affairs of the Philippines. Please allow me to greet him in the Filipino language. Please, Sir, the floor is yours.
6.1 Mr Romulo (Philippines):   Mr President, distinguished guests, maraming salamat. On behalf of the Philippine delegation, I offer  congratulations and express the confidence that under your able and wise leadership, we will achieve our objectives. We  welcome Montenegro and the return of Singapore, our partner in the Association of South-East Asian Nations (ASEAN).  This brings all 10 members of ASEAN into UNESCO. UNESCO remains exceptionally well-suited as an instrument of  change, and the change that we want to see is where the defences of peace are firmly built in the hearts and minds of  our peoples. It is significant that as we embark on UNESCO’s second 60-year cycle, we will adopt the Medium-Term  Strategy to achieve the Millennium Development Goals (MDGs) by 2015. This Strategy embodies the interdisciplinary  approach that is UNESCO’s unique strength. Combined with its global membership, this Strategy will make our  Organization even more responsive to the needs of our peoples. A key focus of the MDGs is poverty alleviation. In her  address before the 62nd session of the United Nations General Assembly, President Arroyo stated that poverty  alleviation was the most important part of our efforts to transform the Philippines into a modernized nation. My country  has made much progress in this direction. Extreme poverty has been cut drastically from 20% in 1990 to 10% in 2006.  We know, though, like all other developing nations, that we must do more. With UNESCO as our partner, we will achieve  the MDGs, by working together on peace-building, poverty alleviation, sustainable development, and intercultural  dialogue through education, the sciences, culture, communication, and information.
6.2 Education is the principal transformative tool to empower individuals, to liberate their intellects and provide them  with skills. Education is a basic human right. It is the wisest possible investment in securing our common future. Our  contribution is the Philippine-proposed centre for lifelong learning for education for sustainable development in South- East Asia. Inspired by the United Nations Decade of Education for Sustainable Development (2005-2014), this future  laboratory for the exchange of knowledge and best practices will strengthen regional capacity-building from early  childhood learning to higher education. The centre will also promote South-South and North-South-South triangular  cooperation in developing country priorities. In this spirit, we must strengthen UNESCO’s role as a catalyst and capacity- builder in mobilizing science and technology in addressing today’s pressing challenges. Towards this end, UNESCO can  assist in finding global solutions to climate change, one of the most complex and critical issues confronting our age. We  share the concerns of small island developing States, particularly on rising sea levels, in line with the Mauritius  Declaration and Strategy. As one of the world’s richest biodiversity zones, the Philippines is prepared to share its  experience in improving the sustainable development and management of natural resources, including access to  freshwater. As a country astride the Pacific "Ring of Fire" and battered by severe typhoons, which may already signal the  worsening effects of climate change, the Philippines aims to strengthen international cooperation in disaster prevention,  mitigation and management. At the same time, UNESCO must promote ethical principles for scientific and technological  progress. UNESCO should help guide science on emerging ethical challenges from a humanist and human rights  perspective. Bioethics, in particular, must fully incorporate respect for the sanctity of life.
6.3 In strengthening respect for the sanctity of life, culture can be an important tool. Culture can bring communities  together in our common search for lasting peace and sustainable development. On the sanctity of life, we look to the day  when the death penalty will be a thing of the past. We have promoted interfaith dialogue in our own country, in our region  and across the globe, to bring greater understanding between those with different cultures and beliefs. In this quest,  UNESCO has been our steadfast partner. Last month at the United Nations in New York, I chaired the Conference on  Interfaith Cooperation for Peace. A few days later, we addressed the High-Level Dialogue on Interreligious and  Intercultural Understanding and Cooperation for Peace. Our commitment springs from our own success in Muslim- Christian dialogue for peace and development in the southern Philippines, a dialogue that enjoys broad international  support, including from the United Nations and the Organization of the Islamic Conference. We share UNESCO’s  mandate on cultural diversity as our common heritage.   (The speaker continues in Spanish)
(6.4) (traduit de l’espagnol) Parce que l’on y parle 170 idiomes et dialectes, les Philippines savent bien que la langue est  culture. Nous appuyons, par conséquent, l’action de l’UNESCO visant à protéger la diversité linguistique, y compris sur  Internet, en tant que garantie de la diversité culturelle. Cette action contribuera à sauvegarder contre les menaces les
187  systèmes de connaissance de nos peuples autochtones, qui constituent pour toute l’humanité un patrimoine inestimable et  intangible.  (L’orateur poursuit en anglais)
6.5 The need to propel development remains urgent. Barely seven years remain before the MDG target year of
2015. Despite undeniable achievements in science and technology, two thirds of all humanity remains condemned to  poverty, hunger and ignorance. The external debts of highly-indebted countries, as well as of middle-income countries  like the Philippines, retard our ability to rise above such misery and want.   (The speaker continues in Spanish)
(6.6) (traduit de l’espagnol) Nous prions l’UNESCO de nous soutenir en tant qu’associé à part entière dans la recherche  d’un financement créatif du développement. À cette fin, nous demandons à la Conférence générale d’approuver la création  d’un comité d’experts qui propose un financement novateur en faveur de la conversion de la dette en capital social pour  l’éducation et, au-delà, la science, la culture et la communication.
(6.7) Monsieur le Président, il reste beaucoup à changer. Selon les mots du Mahatma Gandhi, « Nous devons être le  changement que nous voulons voir dans le monde ». Le progrès humain ne sera possible qu’avec un développement à visage  humain, dans lequel le profit matériel ira de pair avec le perfectionnement moral, et lorsque le changement enrichira, au lieu  d’aliéner, les individus et les communautés. Alors, entreprenons maintenant le changement auquel nous aspirons, tandis que  nous préparons l’UNESCO aux six décennies à venir. Je vous remercie.
7.1 The President:   I would like to thank His Excellency Dr Alberto Romulo, Secretary of Foreign Affairs of the Philippines, and also  let me tell you that I was very happy that you used different languages, languages which are very important for the future  of humanity. I would also like to take this occasion to salute Mr Marcio Barbosa. Thank you, Sir.   (The President continues in French)
7.2 Le prochain orateur sur ma liste est Son Excellence, Monsieur Joseph Paré, Ministre des enseignements  secondaire et supérieur et de la recherche scientifique du Burkina Faso. Si vous me permettez, j’aimerais saluer le  Ministre en sa langue maternelle : Conferença yok d’ninga po oujda Burkina Faso Ministrani za a bré Excellence Joseph  Paré.
8.1 M. Pare (Burkina Faso) :   Monsieur le Président de la Conférence générale, permettez-moi d’abord de vous féliciter au nom de mon pays  pour votre brillante élection. Mon pays s’en félicite, vous adresse tous ses vœux de succès et vous assure de son  soutien.
8.2 Monsieur le Président de la Conférence générale, Monsieur le Président du Conseil exécutif, Monsieur le  Directeur général, il y a deux ans, nous avons fêté ensemble ici, avec enthousiasme, le 60e anniversaire de notre  Organisation, en affirmant en même temps notre foi en la mission que celle-ci incarne et qui reste plus que jamais  d’actualité. Nous avons également, à cette occasion, reconnu qu’il reste encore au sein de notre Organisation beaucoup  à faire pour que nous méritions la confiance placée en elle. En effet, dans le monde actuel, de nombreuses difficultés se  posent encore avec urgence, et notre Organisation doit continuer d’affirmer fortement sa présence dans les grands  débats sur la mondialisation mais aussi en tant que lieu de réflexion et creuset d’élaboration de nouveaux instruments  normatifs. Il est à regretter que, de nos jours, de nombreuses recommandations importantes issues des débats de  l’UNESCO restent encore lettre morte et que la mise en œuvre d’un grand nombre de conventions bénéficiant de  l’adhésion des États membres soit bien loin de ce qu’elle devrait être. L’UNESCO doit encourager le monde entier à  tendre la main à ceux qui sont restés au bord de la route car elle est une organisation de dialogue et de solidarité  humaine.
8.3 Monsieur le Président de la Conférence, l’éducation est un outil essentiel pour rendre l’homme maître de son  destin et pour respecter autrui. L’éducation demeure la pierre angulaire du savoir et du développement économique et  social. C’est pourquoi, à sept ans du Forum de Dakar, le programme Éducation pour tous, admirable initiative de  l’UNESCO, garde toute son importance. Il incombe à l’UNESCO de redoubler d’efforts pour que ce programme ne reste  pas un vain mot. Nous nous souvenons que, dès le lancement de cet énorme projet, M. Koïchiro Matsuura s’était attelé à  sa mise en œuvre avec une détermination dont nous lui savons gré.
8.4 Monsieur le Président, en dépit de tous les efforts déployés par de nombreux pays en vue de la date butoir de
2015, nous sommes encore aux prises avec de nombreuses difficultés qui commandent que l’on adapte le plan global  aux besoins qui se font sentir de toutes parts. C’est dans une telle dynamique que le Burkina Faso s’est engagé dans  une réforme de son système éducatif, qui doit conduire à une éducation de qualité et obligatoire pour tous les enfants de
6 à 16 ans. Pour nous, la scolarisation des enfants dans les écoles primaires et secondaires n’est pas seulement une
188  question de ressources mais en premier lieu, du nombre d’enseignants qualifiés que chaque pays peut produire chaque  année. En clair, il est attendu de l’UNESCO qu’elle accompagne nos États dans leur volonté politique d’assurer la  gratuité d’une éducation de qualité pour tous, notamment pour les plus défavorisés. Elle doit s’appuyer sur une formation  de qualité des enseignants, et c’est pour cela que le Burkina Faso suit avec intérêt l’initiative de renforcement de la  formation des personnels enseignants en Afrique subsaharienne, connue sous le sigle de TTISSA. Ce projet ne doit pas  seulement se contenter d’effleurer les difficultés, et nous attachons du prix aussi à la restructuration du TTISSA afin d’en  faire une réponse efficace au problème des enseignants dans notre pays. Face au défi majeur de l’alphabétisation, le  Burkina Faso, par l’intermédiaire de la première Dame du pays, Mme Chantal Compaoré, a lancé en décembre 2007  une campagne nationale d’information et de collecte de fonds en vue de dynamiser ce secteur.
8.5 Monsieur le Président de la Conférence générale, mon pays félicite l’UNESCO pour les efforts ô combien  louables qu’elle déploie pour accorder aux filles et aux femmes de notre planète la place qui est la leur, par une  éducation multidimensionnelle. La paix du monde en dépend, car l’adage dit « éduquer une fille, c’est éduquer une  nation ». Le gouvernement du Burkina Faso a pris conscience des enjeux du programme Éducation pour tous et de la  question du genre et du développement en la matière en prenant des initiatives hardies que l’Organisation accompagne.  En effet, le 19 avril 2006 à Paris, le Centre international pour l’éducation des filles et des femmes en Afrique (CIEFFA) a  accédé au statut de centre de catégorie 2 de l’UNESCO, ce qui nous conforte dans notre détermination. Ce statut  permettra au CIEFFA de bénéficier de l’assistance technique de l’UNESCO pour son fonctionnement et la mise en  œuvre de ses projets. Par ailleurs, le 26 avril 2007 à Ouagadougou, le CIEFFA a été officiellement reçu comme  institution spécialisée de l’Union africaine. C’est également le lieu ici de lancer un appel à tous les États africains en vue  d’appuyer le CIEFFA.
8.6 Monsieur le Président, mon pays voudrait également attirer l’attention de notre Organisation sur la situation des  pays en situation de post-conflit en vue d’une solidarité avec ces pays dans la reconstruction et la relance de leurs  infrastructures éducatives et culturelles.
8.7 Monsieur le Président, de nos jours, les progrès de la science ont atteint un degré de fascination qui mérite  notre intérêt tant les perspectives sont nombreuses. Le Burkina Faso voudrait rappeler l’appel lancé à l’UNESCO par le  Sommet de l’Union africaine pour aider les États africains à élaborer et mettre en œuvre une politique scientifique et  technologique visant à amener la science et la technologie à contribuer efficacement au développement durable en  Afrique dans les domaines prioritaires que sont la lutte contre les maladies (le paludisme, le VIH/sida...), la protection de  l’environnement, l’autosuffisance alimentaire, l’utilisation rationnelle de l’eau et celle de l’énergie.
8.8 Monsieur le Président de la Conférence, le Burkina Faso place la question de la jeunesse au cœur de ses  préoccupations. Et c’est dans cette perspective que nous avons reçu au Burkina Faso, du 24 au 28 septembre 2007, le  premier Forum africain des jeunes de l’UNESCO. Le message de paix et d’intégration lancé par cette jeunesse à cette  occasion constitue une source d’espoir pour notre continent.
8.9 Monsieur le Président, les technologies de l’information et de la communication révolutionnent notre monde et  nous souhaitons, pour notre part, que le fossé numérique soit de plus en plus réduit.
8.10 Monsieur le Président, en terminant, le Burkina Faso voudrait réaffirmer son engagement total pour les idéaux  de l’UNESCO, son engagement politique pour la paix et le dialogue, son action dynamique pour la visibilité de l’identité  culturelle africaine. Fidèle à son engagement politique d’œuvrer en faveur de l’intégration et de la solidarité africaines, le  Burkina Faso a décidé de retirer sa candidature aux prochaines élections des membres du Conseil exécutif. Il remercie  les gouvernements des nombreux États qui l’avaient assuré de leur soutien et sollicite le report de leur appui à sa  candidature au Comité du patrimoine mondial. Monsieur le Président, nous vous remercions et nous souhaitons bonne  chance dans nos travaux.   (Applaudissements)
9.1 Le Président :   Je voudrais remercier Son Excellence Monsieur Joseph Paré, Ministre des enseignements secondaire et  supérieur et de la recherche scientifique du Burkina Faso pour son intervention. Avant de donner la parole au prochain  orateur, permettez-moi de faire une remarque qui, naturellement, n’est pas liée à l’intervention que nous venons  d’entendre. Hier, plusieurs orateurs ont utilisé l’expression « votre Organisation » – « your Organization ». Je voudrais  vous dire, moi qui ai commencé le travail avec l’UNESCO en 1969, que ce n’est pas « votre Organisation », It’s not  « your Organization ». C’est « notre Organisation ». It’s « our Organization ». I believe that this is the most important  issue fort the future of the activity of this Organization.   (Applaudissements)
9.2 Maintenant, j’invite à prendre la parole Son Excellence Monsieur Michel Menga M’Essone, Ministre de  l’éducation nationale, de l’instruction civique, chargé de l’éducation populaire du Gabon.
10.1 M. M’Essone (Gabon) :   Monsieur le Président de la Conférence générale, Monsieur le Président du Conseil exécutif, Monsieur le  Directeur général, Mesdames et Messieurs les chefs de délégation, honorables collègues, c’est pour moi un honneur et  un privilège de m’adresser à la grande famille de l’UNESCO à l’occasion de la 34e session de la Conférence générale  pour exprimer, au nom du chef de l’État, son Excellence El Hadj Omar Bongo Ondimba, et au nom du peuple gabonais,  les hommages de mon pays à toutes les délégations qui participent à ce 34e sommet.
10.2 Monsieur le Président de la Conférence générale, permettez-moi de vous adresser mes vives félicitations pour  le choix porté par la Conférence générale sur votre personne pour diriger les présentes assises. Je voudrais, par la  même occasion, rendre hommage à Son Excellence, Monsieur Musa bin Jaafar bin Hassan, pour la dextérité dont il a  fait montre au cours de son mandat. Monsieur le Président du Conseil exécutif, je tiens au nom de mon pays à vous  féliciter pour l’efficacité et l’énergie avec lesquelles vous avez dirigé les travaux du Conseil exécutif au cours des deux  dernières années, facilitant ainsi le bon déroulement des présentes assises. Mes remerciements et félicitations  s’adressent également à M. Koïchiro Matsuura, Directeur général de l’UNESCO, pour les réformes entreprises en vue de  la modernisation de notre Organisation.
10.3 Monsieur le Président, Excellences, Mesdames et Messieurs, la mise en place de la Stratégie à moyen terme
2008-2013 de l’UNESCO, qui définit la vision stratégique et le cadre programmatique des actions de l’Organisation  durant cette période, revêt à nos yeux une importance capitale. En effet, dans le cadre de ce programme, l’UNESCO est  déterminée à accorder une grande priorité au continent africain à travers la mise en œuvre des Objectifs du Millénaire  pour le développement et le renforcement de son partenariat avec le NEPAD.
10.4 Ainsi, en matière d’éducation, et en conformité avec cette stratégie qui encourage une éducation de qualité pour  tous, le Gabon est engagé dans un processus de réformes dynamiques, avec, notamment, la généralisation de  l’enseignement préprimaire, la réforme curriculaire dans le primaire, l’institutionnalisation de l’approche par compétences  de base, la réintégration de l’alphabétisation et de l’éducation permanente au sein du Ministère de l’éducation nationale,  la diversification des filières de formation, la construction de grandes écoles professionnelles et de nouvelles universités,  la mise en œuvre du système LMD dans l’enseignement supérieur en harmonie avec les autres pays de la CEMAC, la  prise en charge des jeunes déscolarisés en vue de leur réinsertion sociale, le renforcement de la lutte contre le VIH/sida  en milieu scolaire, la revalorisation de l’éducation physique et sportive dans le système éducatif. Aussi, l’appui  multiforme de l’UNESCO est-il souhaité pour le renforcement des capacités, notamment dans le domaine de la formation  des enseignants et des planificateurs de programmes, ainsi que pour la révision curriculaire dans le secondaire.
10.5 Honorables délégués, Mesdames et Messieurs, face aux défis mondiaux auxquels l’humanité est confrontée, la  mission assignée à notre Organisation par le biais de la coopération et d’échanges entre les peuples lui confère un rôle  de chef de file dans ce domaine de compétence. Plus que jamais, l’élimination de l’extrême pauvreté, la promotion des  droits humains, l’éthique et l’égalité entre les sexes, qui sont au centre des missions de l’UNESCO, sont un appel  pressant à la paix internationale et à la prospérité commune de l’humanité.
10.6 Le Gabon a, dans ce sens, élaboré un Document de stratégie de croissance et de réduction de la pauvreté  (DSCRP) qui retrace les programmes et les plans d’action pour les trois prochaines années, mis en place une  commission nationale indépendante des droits de l’homme en 2006 et institué une Journée mondiale des droits de  l’homme, initié une action nationale de recensement typologique des personnes handicapées en vue d’une meilleure  prise en charge de celles-ci, amorcé la mise en place du Comité national d’éthique pour la recherche à l’instar des autres  pays d’Afrique, et se réjouit d’avoir été choisi par l’UNESCO dans le projet « ABC », qui vise à soutenir et à renforcer  lesdits comités.
10.7 Par ailleurs, notre pays a créé des structures institutionnelles visant la promotion de la bonne gouvernance, une  mise en place d’une plate-forme nationale des jeunes pour la résolution des problèmes spécifiques liés aux jeunes et à  la prise en compte de leurs aspirations, a renforcé son action en faveur des droits de la femme et accru sa  représentativité, notamment dans les domaines économique, politique et administratif. Dans ce contexte, le Grand prix  du Président de la République, créé il y a dix ans, contribue à renforcer la place des femmes gabonaises dans le  processus du développement économique.
10.8 Monsieur le Président, Mesdames et Messieurs, l’humanité est face à un défi majeur, celui d’assurer son  développement et sa prospérité économique tout en préservant son milieu naturel et les ressources pour les générations  futures. La réponse n’est possible que par des actions globales concertées au niveau mondial. Pour sa part, le Gabon,  situé au cœur de deux massifs forestiers de la planète, entend jouer un rôle de premier plan dans l’équilibre planétaire et  promouvoir les principes de développement durable. La décision de notre chef d’État, son Excellence El Hadj Omar  Bongo Ondimba, de créer 13 parcs nationaux qui couvrent environ 11 % du territoire gabonais, constitue un effort sans  précédent en matière de protection de l’environnement au service de l’humanité. C’est pourquoi l’inscription récente de  l’Écosystème et du paysage culturel relique de Lopé-Okanda en tant que site naturel et culturel sur la Liste du patrimoine  mondial de l’UNESCO est à nos yeux non seulement une grande source de fierté mais également un motif  d’encouragement à poursuivre nos efforts de préservation des écosystèmes nationaux.
10.9 Par ailleurs, le Gabon s’est réjoui de l’adoption par l’UNESCO, le 20 octobre 2005, de la Convention sur la  protection et la promotion de la diversité des expressions culturelles. Conscient de son importance, notre pays l’a ratifiée  le 30 mars 2007. Cependant, le nombre de pays ayant ratifié cette Convention reste en deçà des espérances, aussi  formulons-nous le vœu de voir ce processus de ratification se poursuivre.
10.10 Enfin, dans le domaine de la communication, l’objectif de l’UNESCO étant de faciliter l’accès d’un plus grand  nombre de pays d’Afrique à l’information et à la communication conformément à la Déclaration de principes et au Plan  d’action du Sommet mondial sur la société de l’information, le Gabon vient d’engager une réflexion en vue de la création  d’une structure nécessaire à l’élaboration d’une stratégie nationale des nouvelles technologies de l’information et de la  communication et attend de l’UNESCO un appui soutenu et continu.
10.11 Mesdames et Messieurs, dans un monde en perpétuelle mutation, confronté à de nombreux défis, notre  engagement commun au service de la paix, de l’éducation, de la science, de la lutte contre la pauvreté et de la  promotion des cultures donne à notre Organisation toute sa légitimité. En terminant mon propos, je voudrais, au nom de
190  la délégation gabonaise, exprimer le vœu que les travaux de la 34e Conférence de notre Organisation soient un succès.  Je vous remercie pour votre attention.   (Applaudissements)
11.1 Le Président    Je remercie vivement Son Excellence Monsieur le Ministre Michel Menga M’Essone. Je voudrais aussi indiquer  la présence, parmi les représentants permanents, d’une personne tout à fait remarquable, Madame Yolande Bike, chef  de la délégation gabonaise. La contribution qu’elle apporte à nos travaux est la preuve que la question n’est pas de  savoir si une délégation est grande ou petite mais si elle est excellente ou pas. Vous pouvez être fier de votre  délégation, Monsieur le Ministre.  (Le Président poursuit en anglais)
11.2 Please, let me say something now in my own mother tongue, Hungarian, because the next speaker on my list is  His Excellency Mr István Hiller, the Minister of Education and Culture of Hungary.
12.1 Mr Hiller (Hungary):   Mr Director-General, I will be addressing you in Hungarian on this solemn occasion. My mother tongue, like  more than 6,000 other languages, is not among to the official languages of the United Nations. And like many of those  present here, we Hungarians do not have the opportunity to use it in significant international forums. As a professor of  Latin, I have decided to deliver my speech in my mother tongue, to underline the importance of preserving together the  cultural and linguistic diversity of our common heritage.  (The speaker continues in Hungarian; English text provided by the delegation)
12.2 Permit me to share with you several thoughts relating to the most important processes concerning this  Organization. Hungary, as a Member of UNESCO during the past 60 years, is convinced that besides bilateral  cooperation, it is of the utmost importance to have a multi-faceted system of international relations with the active  participation of international organizations, such as UNESCO, where every actor can find his place and has the  opportunity to implement his interests. Within the process of the ongoing United Nations reform, it is vital for UNESCO to  preserve its role as an intellectual leader within the United Nations system. The Hungarian Government welcomes the  reforms initiated by the Director-General. We hope qualitative changes will be continued also within the new budgetary  framework. We fully support the aim to increase the allocations to programmes instead of administrative costs, since the  world needs concrete results.
12.3 As a follow-up to the World Conference on Science held in Hungary in 1999, in November 2007, Budapest will  host the World Science Forum for the third time. It is our special pleasure that the event is carried out under the auspices  of UNESCO. The 2009 Forum will sum up the results achieved in science and development during the past 10 years. We  are actively supporting UNESCO’s efforts in setting ethical standard to guide scientific behaviour, this being specially  needed in bioethics and water management, and as a minister responsible for education, I would also encourage the  introduction of the ethics of science into educational curricula. Hungarian experience also demonstrates that the  assessment of the water resources of humankind and a science-based, forward-looking water management policy are  urgent tasks. We appreciate the fact that UNESCO considers this a priority question and also welcome the two World  Water Reports and their availability in Hungarian.
12.4 Within the framework of the education for all (EFA) priorities, we support the organization of the Sixth  International Conference on Adult Education (CONFINTEA VI) and its preparatory events. Hungary has officially offered  to host the CONFINTEA VI preparatory conference in Europe. The worldwide network of National Commissions  represents a specificity and also a professional strength of this Organization, of UNESCO. We encourage the most active  involvement of their unique capacity in the implementation of UNESCO’s programmes. We attribute the utmost  importance to the fact that UNESCO considers culture one of the main pillars of sustainable development. We welcome  the Convention for the Safeguarding of the Intangible Cultural Heritage and the Convention on the Protection and  Promotion of the Diversity of Cultural Expressions adopted in recent years, and we encourage the implementation of  these normative instruments since we consider them to be a means for alleviating culture-based tensions between  peoples and social groups. Linguistic diversity constitutes an essential part of cultural diversity. All its aspects, including  the multilingualism of cyberspace are a priority for Hungary. It is now timely to give a new definition to the notion of  intercultural dialogue and to fill it with a new content. We welcome the establishment of the Task Force on the Dialogue  among Cultures, and we hope that in cooperation with similar programmes of the European Union, we will be giving new  impetus to this initiative in 2008.
12.5 After the publication of a CD of the 1913 collection of Algerian songs by Béla Bartók, Hungary is contributing to  the dialogue between civilizations by preparing a parallel encyclopaedia of differently interpreted terms of European and  Arab culture.
13. The President:   I thank you very much Minister István Hiller, Minister of Education and Culture of Hungary, for your important  contribution. The next speaker on my list is Her Excellency Ms Roma Žakaitienė, Minister of Education and Science of  Lithuania, and the only reason that right now I am not using my very limited Lithuanian is that the last time you visited this  Organization, I had the opportunity to greet you using your mother tongue, with the help of my excellent colleague,  Ambassador of Lithuania. Madam Minister, the floor is yours.
14.1 Ms Žakaitienė (Lithuania):   Thank you. Mr President of the General Conference, Mr Director-General, distinguished representatives,  Excellencies, ladies and gentlemen, it is a great pleasure to address UNESCO, the Organization that, having celebrated  its 60th anniversary, turns a new page and faces the great challenges of the twenty-first century. At the outset I would  like to congratulate the newly elected President of the General Conference, Ambassador George Anastassopoulos,  Permanent Delegate of Greece to UNESCO, and to thank the former President of the General Conference, Ambassador  Permanent Delegate of Oman, Musa bin Jaafar bin Hassan, for his devoted work in the Organization. We would also like  to warmly welcome Singapore, after so many years back into the UNESCO family, to our family, and rejoice at  Montenegro’s joining the Organization.
14.2 UNESCO, as well as the entire United Nations family, is experiencing a time of change. The United Nations  reform offers a possibility for UNESCO to streamline its activities and to identify the areas where it has clear added  value. Education has always been a programme of first priority for UNESCO. The education for all (EFA) programme  covers all levels of education and its main problems, as well as the decision-making in education. I am very proud to  underline that my country was one of the first in its region to establish a national education forum, which enables  specialists and professionals to work actively at national and regional levels implementing the current education reform.  One of the great partners in our work towards ensuring quality education for all is UNESCO ASPnet. Our national  experience managing the UNESCO Associated Schools Project Network (ASPnet) repeatedly confirms the effectiveness  and uniqueness of the Network as a resource to ensure quality education in all aspects by introducing innovations in  educational content, forming the awareness of young minds in favour of safeguarding the intangible culture heritage, the  discovery of cultural diversity, the magic of scientific research and the joy of communication. From 1997 onward,  Lithuanian ASP schools have served as an excellent tool for transmitting UNESCO’s goals and ideas on to the next  generation.
14.3 In 2006 Lithuania took over the general coordination of the Baltic Sea project. For a period of three years, it will  be our task and honour to bring a new spirit to the project. Lithuania has actively responded to the United Nations  initiative on education for sustainable development. Recently the Lithuanian Government adopted a national strategy on  education for sustainable development and we believe that the potential of this project will help turning the programme  into practice.
14.4 Another big priority tightly interrelated with the concept of the EFA programme is arts education. My country  believes that arts education demonstrates and promotes the essential role of the arts in the learning and development of  every child. That is why in 2007 the Ministry of Education and Science adopted the “Long-term national programme for  the artistic and cultural education of children and youth”. Lithuania appreciates UNESCO’s efforts in developing and  improving the Global Action Plan to achieve the EFA goals. We do expect that under the wise leadership of the new  Assistant Director-General for Education, Mr Burnett, UNESCO will assume a key role through concrete actions.
14.5 In my country, culture is the area of UNESCO that is most strongly associated with the name and visibility of this  Organization. We do encourage UNESCO to implement the auditor’s recommendations for the UNESCO World Heritage  Centre, thus making the reform of the Centre a pilot project for the Organization in curing some long-standing diseases.  Lithuania has high expectations for the first meeting of the Intergovernmental Committee for the Protection and  Promotion of the Diversity of Cultural Expressions as a first attempt to direct this Convention into the first stage of  implementation.
14.6 In the sphere of the social and human sciences, the main priority remains the ethics of science and technology,  as well as bioethics. The Lithuanian Regional Bioethics Information Centre, supported by UNESCO, implements  bioethics education, spreads bioethics information throughout the region, and serves as UNESCO’s partner in  implementing the Global Ethics Observatory.
14.7 My country believes that during the overall review of Major Programmes II and III, participation of Member  States was insufficient, and that the National Commissions for UNESCO should be called upon to participate actively in  its implementation stage. The follow-up to the Tunis World Summit on the Information Society remains one of the main  items on the UNESCO agenda on communication and information. It is important that UNESCO’s leading role in  implementing some action lines has been finally agreed upon. Moreover, Lithuania believes that the Memory of the  World programme also should be reinforced, as it is one of the programmes aimed at enhancing the wisdom of humanity  and maintaining human memory.
14.8 In conclusion, I would like to underline the importance of the National Commissions for UNESCO. It is through  the National Commissions, disseminating UNESCO’s ideas, that countries take an active part in most of UNESCO’s  programmes and projects, thus implementing the main UNESCO goals – “creat[ing] the conditions for genuine dialogue  based upon respect for shared values and the dignity of each civilization and culture”. Thank you for your kind attention.  (Applause)  Mr Anastassopoulos takes the Chair.
15. The President:   Thank you very much Ms Roma Žakaitienė. I would now like to ask Her Excellency Ms Noureyyah Al-Sabih,  Minister of Education and Higher Education, of Kuwait to take the floor.
(16.1) Mme Al-Sabih (Koweït) (traduit de l’arabe) :   Monsieur le Président de la 34e session de la Conférence générale de l’UNESCO, Monsieur le Président du Conseil  exécutif de l’Organisation, Monsieur le Directeur général, Vos Excellences les chefs et les membres des délégations, je tiens à  vous adresser mes plus vives salutations ainsi que celles de l’Émir, du Gouvernement et du peuple de l’État du Koweït.  J’aimerais vous exprimer notre estime pour le rôle éminent joué par l’Organisation ainsi que pour les précieuses réalisations  humaines qu’elle a accomplies pour le bien-être des peuples, tout au long de sa glorieuse histoire, afin d’atteindre ses nobles  objectifs et de réaliser sa formidable mission, à savoir instaurer la paix, éliminer la pauvreté, promouvoir le développement  durable et établir un dialogue entre les cultures. J’aimerais également féliciter Son Excellence l’Ambassadeur Georges  Anastassopoulos, délégué permanent de la Grèce auprès de l’UNESCO, à l’occasion de son élection comme Président de la
34e session de la Conférence générale, et lui souhaiter sincèrement plein succès, et remercier vivement Son Excellence  l’Ambassadeur Musa bin Jaafar, délégué permanent du Sultanat d’Oman auprès de l’UNESCO, qui, en sa qualité de  Président de la 33e session de la Conférence générale, n’a pas ménagé ses efforts au cours des deux dernières années.  Enfin, nous nous félicitons de l’adhésion du Monténégro et du retour de la République de Singapour à l’UNESCO après
22 ans d’absence. Nous sommes intimement convaincus que leur présence ne manquera pas de renforcer l’Organisation et  d’en accroître la stature internationale.
(16.2) Mesdames et Messieurs, nous sommes pleinement conscients des effets que les mutations internationales dues à la  mondialisation ont sur les relations entre les individus. Ces relations deviennent systématiquement plus complexes, et la  responsabilité intellectuelle et morale de l’UNESCO n’en est que plus grande car il lui incombe de les organiser et d’en fixer  les critères au plan international.
(16.3) Mesdames et Messieurs, l’État du Koweït continue d’accorder une importance particulière à l’éducation et à l’égalité  entre les sexes dans ce domaine, ainsi qu’à la gratuité de l’enseignement jusqu’à la fin du cycle universitaire, et s’efforce de  participer à toutes les actions internationales visant à développer l’éducation, notamment celles de l’UNESCO. Convaincu que  l’éducation est devenue un besoin humain vital dans un monde en proie à d’incessantes mutations, le Koweït fait tout son  possible pour l’améliorer. Ainsi, il veille à promouvoir, dans les programmes d’études et les matières enseignées, les valeurs  de liberté, de droit, de justice, de paix et de respect de l’opinion d’autrui ; à répandre une culture de la tolérance ; à encourager  l’établissement d’un dialogue culturel constructif ; et à dénoncer le terrorisme et le fanatisme sous toutes leurs formes. En  outre, il s’emploie, du mieux qu’il peut, à renforcer les notions de pluralisme culturel et religieux, ainsi que les valeurs  favorisant la cohésion sociale et le tissage de liens entre les groupes sociaux. Dans cette optique, le Koweït a pris de  nombreuses mesures, par exemple développer le cycle primaire, considéré comme le socle du système éducatif, et diversifier  l’enseignement secondaire en offrant une filière universitaire et une autre filière technique pour que l’apprenant choisisse ce  qui correspond à ses aptitudes et à ses besoins. De même, nous avons commencé à introduire les compétences de la vie  dans nos programmes d’études, et nous espérons tirer parti du programme relatif aux sciences et aux technologies pour  renforcer les aptitudes et le socle des savoirs modernes et, partant, faire mieux correspondre l’enseignement et la formation  techniques et professionnels. Enfin, nous avons introduit l’apprentissage électronique à tous les niveaux de l’éducation. Les  responsables politiques de l’État du Koweït étant convaincus que l’éducation doit évoluer sans cesse et qu’il faut s’adapter aux  dernières nouveautés en la matière, l’Émir de l’État du Koweït, Son Altesse Cheikh Sabah Al Ahmad Al Jaber Al Sabah, a  demandé que l’on organise une conférence nationale sur l’éducation à laquelle participeraient toutes les forces vives de la  société. Durant cette conférence, on profiterait de l’expérience des institutions et organisations nationales, arabes et  internationales, au premier rang desquelles figure l’UNESCO, grâce aux opinions, aux idées et aux études qui y seraient  présentées aux fins de réalisation de l’objectif recherché, à savoir le développement de l’éducation. Cette conférence, qui aura  lieu en février 2008, donnera, par ses résultats et recommandations, une impulsion importante à un développement plus  poussé de l’éducation au Koweït dans les années à venir. À ce sujet, l’État du Koweït a créé un centre national pour le  développement de l’éducation chargé de s’acquitter de sa tâche en appliquant une méthodologie scientifique fiable fondée sur  les résultats de recherches et d’études. Il s’efforce également d’assurer l’égalité des chances quant à l’accès à un  enseignement supérieur de qualité, et d’encourager la recherche scientifique et l’innovation. Ainsi, le Koweït a permis à des  universités étrangères de créer des branches sur son sol, dans le but de mieux profiter de l’évolution mondiale dans tous les  domaines, de réformer son enseignement supérieur dans un esprit d’émulation, et de faciliter l’accès aux technologies de  l’information et de la communication dans le cadre de l’apprentissage tout au long de la vie. J’aimerais rappeler ici que, le
16 mai 2005, l’État du Koweït a connu un événement historique dans sa vie politique avec l’obtention par la femme  koweïtienne de tous ses droits politiques. Celle-ci s’est vue confier des porte-feuilles ministériels et elle exerce désormais ses  droits politiques en participant effectivement aux élections législatives.
(16.4) Mesdames et Messieurs, nous sommes pleins d’optimisme et d’espoir en ce qui concerne le projet de Stratégie à  moyen terme pour 2008-2013 et ses cinq objectifs primordiaux annoncés par l’Organisation. Nous sommes satisfaits que cette  Stratégie vise à renforcer les droits de l’homme et les évolutions sociales, à instaurer l’égalité entre les sexes, et à lutter contre  le racisme et la discrimination. Nous réaffirmons notre soutien aux programmes qui cherchent à briser le cercle de la pauvreté,  et à améliorer les compétences économiques et sociales des jeunes exclus en les formant aux activités commerciales, afin  qu’ils aient plus de chance de trouver un emploi, car ces programmes contribuent à la stabilité sociale et économique, au  maintien de l’ordre et à la sécurité, et à la lutte contre les dérives de la jeunesse. Nous soutenons également l’UNESCO dans  sa volonté d’exécuter des programmes concernant les sciences, l’environnement et le développement durable qui aident à  comprendre les systèmes naturels et sociaux et qui jettent les bases scientifiques de la sécurité humaine et environnementale.  Conscient de l’importance primordiale de la culture à notre époque ; convaincu, conformément à ses principes, que le  patrimoine culturel, dans sa diversité et sa différence, est un des droits inaliénables de l’homme ; et soucieux de soutenir la  Déclaration universelle de l’UNESCO sur la diversité culturelle et de promouvoir l’application de la Convention sur la protection  et la promotion de la diversité des expressions culturelles, le Koweït, par un décret du 9 juillet 2007, a adhéré à cette  Convention. Il s’est en outre joint aux pays signataires de la Convention internationale contre le dopage dans le sport,  estimant que celui-ci doit jouer un rôle important en protégeant la santé, en favorisant l’éducation morale, culturelle et  physique, en renforçant la compréhension et la paix sur le plan international, et en insistant sur l’interdiction du dopage afin de  combattre et d’éliminer ce phénomène.
(16.5) Mesdames et Messieurs, il est essentiel que l’UNESCO poursuive sa remarquable action en faveur de la paix, du  développement humain et du renforcement de la coopération entre les nations. Nous sommes tous tenus de l’aider à remplir  sa noble mission, et de prendre les mesures voulues pour permettre aux instances de l’Organisation d’appliquer des
194  stratégies, des plans et des programmes susceptibles de répondre aux attentes des peuples. L’État du Koweït apprécie au  plus haut point les efforts que M. le Directeur général de l’UNESCO déploie en faveur des institutions éducatives et culturelles  des territoires arabes occupés, et espère qu’il poursuivra son action pour la reconstruction, la réhabilitation et la restauration  des sites archéologiques palestiniens et pour la protection du patrimoine culturel palestinien. L’État du Koweït tient enfin à  rendre un vibrant hommage au Directeur général, qui a réaffirmé à nouveau la noble mission de l’UNESCO s’agissant de la  préservation de la Vieille Ville de Jérusalem. Que la paix et la miséricorde et la bénédiction de Dieu soient sur vous.  (Applause)
17. The President:   Thank you very much Minister. I would now like to ask His Excellency Mr Andrey Alexandrovitch Foursenko,  Minister of Education and Sciences of the Russian Federation, to take the floor.
(18.1) M. Foursenko (Fédération de Russie) (traduit du russe)   Monsieur le Président, Excellences, chers collègues, chers amis, l'éducation a plusieurs aspects. Il s'agit à la fois d'un  moyen de développement de l'économie et de la société, d'un moyen de stabilité sociale et de compréhension mutuelle, et  d'un moyen d'accomplissement individuel. Que l'une ou l'autre de ces fonctions vienne à manquer, et le prix à payer risque  d'être extrêmement élevé, les conséquences extrêmement dangereuses. Nul n'ignore qu'aujourd'hui, le principal frein à  l'expansion économique et au développement de la vie sociale dans tous les pays est l'insuffisance du capital humain.  L'éducation tout au long de la vie est aujourd'hui un impératif. Mais il convient d'éviter de tomber dans un autre extrême, qui  consisterait à faire de ceux qui étudient des étudiants à vie, sans débouché dans la vie réelle. Veillons à ce que nos actions  n'aboutissent pas à une réalité virtuelle, veillons à ce que les écoles et les universités, au lieu d'être des tremplins pour la  réussite dans la vie réelle, ne deviennent pas des consignes pour jeunes gens n'ayant ni le désir ni la capacité d'assumer la  responsabilité de promouvoir le développement économique et social dans leur pays et dans le monde. Nous sommes tous  aujourd'hui aux prises avec de tels problèmes, comme l'est toute l'humanité.
(18.2) L'UNESCO assure aujourd'hui précisément la coordination de l'action internationale dans le domaine de l'éducation, et  en premier lieu de l'Éducation pour tous (EPT). Cette année est déterminante pour le processus de l'EPT. La réalisation des  objectifs fixés à Dakar pour 2015 exige l'intensification de l'action collective de la communauté mondiale tout entière.  L'UNESCO regroupe et coordonne les efforts importants déployés à l'échelon international pour fournir une assistance  pratique aux pays qui ont besoin de remédier aux insuffisances de leur système éducatif. Mais il est peu probable que l'on  puisse venir à bout d'une tâche aussi vaste que celle de l'Éducation pour tous sans fournir un travail de titan sur le plan tant  national qu'international, au niveau de chaque État individuellement  et dans le cadre d'une véritable coopération entre États.
(18.3) La Fédération de Russie fait profiter de ses travaux et de son expérience pratique tous les pays membres, notamment  les pays qui rencontrent des difficultés dans la réalisation des objectifs de l'Éducation pour tous et des Objectifs du Millénaire  pour le développement. Les ministres de l'éducation des États membres du Groupe des huit réunis en 2006 à Moscou,  conjointement avec les représentants de l'UNESCO, de l'OCDE et de divers autres pays, ont adopté une déclaration et  annoncé leur détermination à coopérer à tous les niveaux dans le domaine de l'éducation innovante au XXIe siècle et à  favoriser la réalisation des objectifs de l'EPT et des objectifs en matière de développement énoncés dans la Déclaration du  Millénaire.
(18.4) Pour pouvoir réaliser les objectifs du XXIe siècle dans le domaine de l'éducation, il est nécessaire de mettre en place  un système universel d'apprentissage tout au long de la vie, de la petite enfance à l'âge mûr. Et pour atteindre l'objectif  essentiel pour la communauté mondiale d'aujourd'hui qu'est l'enseignement primaire universel, il faut assurer l'instruction et le  développement des enfants en bas âge et des enfants d'âge préscolaire. À cet égard, les autorités de Moscou, la capitale de  la Fédération de Russie, ont mis sur pied, conjointement avec l'UNESCO, un projet visant à créer un réseau UNESCO de  jardins d'enfants pilotes afin de mettre au point des modèles efficaces pour les pays connaissant des conditions de  développement socio-économique et des structures culturelles et traditionnelles différentes.
(18.5) La Fédération de Russie, qui possède un énorme potentiel dans les domaines scientifique et technique, souhaiterait  renforcer et accroître l'efficacité des programmes scientifiques de l'UNESCO. Le programme scientifique est, selon nous,  indissolublement lié à l'éducation. Nous souhaiterions voir se développer le Programme international relatif aux sciences  fondamentales, auquel il est à notre avis indispensable de donner un statut intergouvernemental.
(18.6) Je voudrais souligner l'actualité et l'utilité des travaux de recherche scientifique effectués par la Commission  océanographique intergouvernementale de l'UNESCO, qui mérite assurément un soutien aussi large que possible compte  tenu de l'ampleur de la tâche qui lui incombe, tâche à laquelle doit s'atteler toute l'humanité et qui est liée au changement  climatique mondial et au réchauffement de la planète. Il est très important que l'Organisation s'emploie, dans les limites de ses  compétences, à essayer de régler le problème énergétique mondial. Je souhaite appeler l'attention à ce propos sur la  proposition de la Fédération de Russie tendant à établir, dans le cadre du Centre pour le développement énergétique durable  de Moscou, un centre de l'UNESCO dont l'activité viserait notamment à effectuer des recherches sur les sources d'énergie  alternatives et renouvelables dans l'intérêt de toute la communauté internationale, et d'abord des pays en développement. Je  tiens à souligner que de telles recherches nous intéressent tous, que nous possédions ou non des ressources énergétiques,  parce que nous avons tous des problèmes à résoudre, des problèmes énergétiques complexes. Mais n'oublions pas que le  rapide développement de la science et de la technologie, tout en réglant certains problèmes qui se posent à l'humanité, ne  manque pas de soulever de nouvelles questions, en particulier d'ordre éthique.
(18.7) Nous devons continuer d'élaborer des normes d'éthique communes et acceptables par tous concernant les  connaissances scientifiques et la technologie et poursuivre l'étude des problèmes bioéthiques. Je tiens à souligner que tout  nouveau savoir, par exemple dans le domaine de la nanotechnologie, fait naître de nouveaux problèmes auxquels nous  devons tous ensemble remédier.
(18.8) Mesdames et Messieurs, nous sommes convaincus que les Objectifs du Millénaire pour le développement doivent  demeurer au centre de l'attention de toute la communauté internationale. Beaucoup de pays en développement demeurent  très en retard dans la réalisation de ces objectifs. Les besoins spécifiques de l'Afrique méritent une attention particulière et la  Fédération de Russie entend renforcer régulièrement son rôle de pays donateur dans le cadre de la coopération internationale  pour le développement. Comme l'ensemble du système des Nations Unies, l'UNESCO se trouve en fait face à un choix : soit  elle se montre à la hauteur des exigences du moment, soit elle se trouve reléguée dans la position peu enviable de vestige  historique d'une époque révolue. Aussi importe-t-il d'apprécier comme ils le méritent les sérieux efforts de réforme entrepris à  l'initiative du Directeur général, Koïchiro Matsuura, et de définir de nouvelles orientations à cet égard. Nous soutenons sans  réserve ces efforts, comme le fait notre pays tout entier. Nous prônons, d'autre part, une approche plus prudente des  problèmes particulièrement sensibles qui se posent dans le monde et considérons qu'il convient d'aborder avec le plus grand  soin l'examen des questions touchant à l'histoire et à la culture. Ceci s'applique, par exemple, au Projet de déclaration de  principes concernant les objets culturels déplacés en relation avec la Seconde Guerre mondiale.
(18.9) Chers collègues, le règlement de nombreux problèmes contradictoires rencontrés par l'humanité se situe à un niveau  moral. La recherche du compromis est la voie de la compréhension mutuelle et de la stabilité. Je me fonde notamment à cet  égard sur l'expérience de mon pays. La Fédération de Russie est disposée à coopérer avec tous les États membres de  l'UNESCO et entend mettre plus largement encore son potentiel intellectuel au service de la résolution des problèmes  humanitaires mondiaux. Je vous remercie de votre attention.  (Applaudissements)
19.  Le Président :   Je voudrais remercier Monsieur le Ministre russe et demander à Son Excellence Monsieur Semere Russon,  Ministre de l’éducation de l’Érythrée, de prendre la parole.
20.1 Mr Russon (Eritrea):   Mr President of the General Conference, Mr Chairman of the Executive Board, Director-General of UNESCO,  distinguished heads of delegation, let me, on behalf of the delegation of the Government of Eritrea and myself, extend  my heartfelt congratulations to you, Ambassador George Anastassopoulous of Greece, on your election as President of  the 34th session of the General Conference of UNESCO; I am certain that under your leadership, this Conference will  achieve its results. I feel very much pleased and honoured to address this august gathering, and UNESCO needs to be  appreciated and congratulated for bringing minds together to discuss issues that call for the utmost attention and  implementation. I wish to join you also in cordially welcoming the return of Singapore, after 22 years of separation, and to  welcome Montenegro as a Member State, to the family of UNESCO in this era of globalization.
20.2 Mr President, in order to translate UNESCO’s noble mission into reality, the need for and role of global  communication becomes of paramount importance. We need common and global commitment and perseverance to  develop and use mother language as well as national and global communication to bring this mission home. In line with  this, UNESCO, in 1999, initiated the celebration of an International Mother Language Day to be held on 21 February  every year. In accordance with this, it is more than a decade since Eritrea happily welcomed and reaffirmed the role and  utilization of mother languages, not only in the elimination of illiteracy and in basic education and promotion of the culture  of peace, but also through using mother languages as a source of identity and an integral part of the basic right to  express one’s feelings and opinions as best one can. Therefore, the thrust for the promotion of national and global  communication that presupposes unity in diversity among peoples, cultures and civilizations of the world becomes  categorical.
20.3 Eritrea fully supports the recommendations made by the Executive Board on the Draft Medium-Term Strategy  for 2008-2013 and the major programme areas stated under the Draft Programme and Budget for the coming biennium,  and notes with great satisfaction UNESCO’s dedication in continuously reforming its strategic vision.
20.4 I am glad to note that Eritrea is pursuing its development structure and reconstruction efforts by cherishing  peace as the option for a bright future. It goes without saying that poverty can be alleviated if peace reigns within and  among nations as well as globally. Peace and security could not be attained while the freedom, rights and sovereignty of  the people and their country of origin are at stake or denied.
20.5 Mr President, Eritrea has embarked upon a national programme to entirely reform the education sector. Thus,  due focus has been given to the expansion and enhancement of tertiary and quality education. Apart from the University  of Asmara, five other institutions, namely the Eritrea Institute of Technology, College of Business and Economics,  College of Marine Sciences and Technology, College of Agriculture, College of Health Science; and College of Arts and  Social Sciences, have been established. An advanced level of technical vocational education and training, as part of  tertiary education, is being encouraged in the country. In line with the EFA Global Monitoring Report, I am pleased to  inform this plenary meeting that Eritrea held a national conference on teachers’ development and role in ensuring quality  of education in early February 2007. At this conference, the central role of teachers for the achievement of the education  for all (EFA) goals was underscored. In order to create noble teachers for a noble profession, the utmost effort is being  made to equip them with professional eligibility and efficiency so as to enable them to instil values and attitudes in the  minds of students and thereby to foster tolerance, national unity, peace and respect for religious, ethnic and cultural  diversity. However, since the reform of pedagogy and curriculum in the training institutions has been one of the  challenges, we call upon UNESCO for the provision of expertise and strengthening of its cooperation to provide quality  education for all.
20.6 The five-year (2005-2009) Education Sector Development Programme which has already been launched and is  now operational, is in compliance with global Millennium Development Goals and EFA goals and strategies. The Adult  Literacy Programme puts emphasis on women, girls and other disadvantaged citizens, and currently a project on  complementary basic education is being piloted in line with EFA goal 3. Rural libraries have been established, and  exclusive educational radio programmes, which are geared and responsive to the achievement of EFA goals 3 and 4,  have been produced and broadcast in various mother languages. Eritrea, therefore, pins hope upon UNESCO playing a  dynamic role in invigorating the provision of education and life skills training for out-of-school youths.
20.7 Mr President, the conservation and promotion of culture that consolidates national identity is another concern in  which Eritrea has been deeply engaged. Eritrea, as a young African country, has the lofty responsibility of rewriting its  ancient history by exploiting its rich and diversified material resources. To this end, the integration of culture into  educational programmes and school curricula has been deemed necessary for practical purposes. In spite of the fact that  Eritrea has one of the highest densities of archaeological sites in Africa and is one of the few countries of the world that  is exceptionally endowed with archaeological remains, some of its ancient and medieval sites and examples of modern  heritage have become victims of intentional destruction in the event of conflict, not to mention those damaged by natural  agents or incidental actions. However, we would like to humbly express our deep gratitude to UNESCO for assigning  experts who, in cooperation with our local craft workers, helped us to restore two of our national monuments.
20.8 Mr President, the essential role of science and technology as a foundation for sustainable development and for  the fight against poverty is well acknowledged. Eritrea, despite its limited resources, has been investing in capacity- building efforts in the basic sciences and science and technology education to address national needs in the areas of  agriculture, energy, the environment, health, natural resources development and management, and related activities. In  this context, the support that Eritrea receives from UNESCO for the study and mitigation of the consequences of natural  hazards like earthquakes and recurrent drought cannot pass without mention.
20.9 Water resources and the environment are also another major concern, and efforts are being made to protect the  water table by extending soil conservation programmes like terracing and afforestation, to mention but a few. In line with  this, Eritrea has been focusing on the consolidation of a high school students’ summer work programme, which has been  going on for the last 13 years, and we have come to witness the fruits of this programme. Its ecological and economic  importance has been vivid and encouraging. There is, of course, dire need for technical and material assistance to make  this programme more productive and sustainable.
20.10 Last but not least, I would like to put some emphasis on the need for the development of information and  communication technology (ICT). To keep pace with the rapidly changing world, Eritrea supports the international call for  bridging the digital divide. Therefore, we request UNESCO to provide us with material, technical and professional  assistance so that we can equip our schools and the young generation with appropriate knowledge. Thank you very  much for listening.   (Applause)
21. The President:   Thank you very much indeed, Minister. I would like to ask His Excellency Dr Milan Zver, Minister of Education  and Sport of Slovenia, to follow you in taking the floor.
22.1 Mr Zver (Slovenia):   Mr President of the General Conference, Mr Director-General, Excellencies, it is a great honour for me to  address you, to address our UNESCO. Ladies and gentlemen, the adoption of the document on UNESCO’s Medium- Term Strategy for the next six years is essential, as it coincides with a reform of the United Nations and deliberations on  the role, tasks and importance of UNESCO in the global society of today. Slovenia has participated in the processes of  determining a new role for UNESCO through its membership of the Executive Board. Slovenia firmly supports the  mission of UNESCO and would like to express support through taking an active part in reforms and the implementation  of the strategies, in particular through the National Commission for UNESCO. Yet it is our desire that the Medium-Term  Strategy as well as the two-year Programme and Budget which this General Conference will adopt, should take greater  consideration of how UNESCO will carry out its mission. In our view UNESCO holds a very special place among  international organizations in that it operates in an area of vital importance for a knowledge-based society. It is because  of its role in education and science that UNESCO can make an essential contribution to the affirmation of social justice  and democratic citizenship policies.
22.2 In education, Slovenia supports programmes which seek to create a knowledge-based society and contribute to  a comprehensive and sustainable development of society. Sustainable development must become the underlying  philosophy of development policies. UNESCO can contribute towards the realization of these policies at the local level  with very clear policy guidelines. It needs to consider not only the processes of globalization, but also localization.  Slovenia deems to be particularly important the activities related to cooperation between schools and the development of  partnerships. It is precisely in this field that Slovenia has a wealth of experience and knowledge, as it is one of the most  active members of the ASPnet network of Associated Schools. Projects and programmes in education help fulfil  UNESCO’s mission and are essential not only for the society of the present, but also for the society of the future, which  will thrive on the creative use of new ideas.
22.3 The knowledge society and the information society are tightly interconnected. UNESCO is the right place for the  launch of debates on what needs to be done to make knowledge as accessible as possible, and to eliminate restrictions  to access to knowledge and other information crucial to society. UNESCO should therefore redouble its efforts towards a  free flow of information in all of its fields of work.
22.4 We support UNESCO’s endeavours to formulate an integral approach to the protection, preservation and  development of cultural diversity, including the preservation of the natural and cultural heritage and its sustainable use in  economic development. An important aspect of cultural diversity is linguistic diversity, since language is the basic tool of  communication. All key information and knowledge should be available to everyone in their mother tongue. This is where  my country sees an opportunity for UNESCO to offer support to Member States in the formulation of policies across  different fields. In this way, Slovenia believes that the implementation of the Convention on the Protection of the Diversity  of Cultural Contents and Artistic Expressions is of the utmost importance.
22.5 In science, Slovenia welcomes the results of the overall review of Major Programmes II and III. The  recommendations of the expert group can make an important contribution to increasing UNESCO’s importance, value  and efficiency in this field. In science, UNESCO should focus its role and potential on creating conditions for the use of  science in comprehensive social development at the global, regional and national levels.
22.6 Last but not least, I would like to underline the value and importance that Slovenia accords to intergovernmental  programmes in science and to UNESCO’s efforts in the field of ethics in science and research. Thank you very much for  your attention.  (Applause)
23. The President:   Thank you very much Minister. I think that now it is the turn of His Excellency Dr Juan Vela Valdés, Minister of  Higher Education of Cuba, to taken the floor.
(24.1) Dr Valdés (Cuba) (traduit de l’espagnol)   Monsieur le Président, permettez-moi de vous féliciter pour votre élection à la présidence de cette 34e session de la  Conférence générale de l’UNESCO. Messieurs les délégués, Excellences, la commercialisation croissante de l’éducation, des  sciences, de la culture, du sport, des communications et de l’information, est un trait hautement préoccupant du monde  d’aujourd’hui. Plus de 800 millions de personnes sont analphabètes et 115 millions d’enfants ne vont pas à l’école primaire.  De même, 850 millions de personnes souffrent de la faim, 1,1 milliard n’ont pas accès à une eau potable et 2,6 milliards ne  bénéficient pas de services d’assainissement. Le fossé croissant entre pays industrialisés et pays en développement, et la  crise environnementale planétaire, entraînent une augmentation des flux migratoires du Sud vers le Nord ainsi que, dans les  pays destinataires, de la xénophobie et de la discrimination. La coopération Sud-Sud vient compléter la coopération  internationale pour le développement mais ne se substitue pas à elle comme il est dit de manière singulière dans le plan  stratégique qui en fait la solution alternative valable pour l’exécution des fonctions de base de l’Organisation.
(24.2) L’UNESCO devrait créer et budgétiser des programmes de renforcement des capacités dans les pays sous- développés, allant bien au-delà du rôle d’organisme superviseur que lui assigne en ce sens la Stratégie. Nous applaudissons  à la décision de l’Organisation de donner la priorité à l’Afrique ; nous estimons que sa programmation devrait obéir à une  optique de développement, compte tenu de la grave conjoncture économique et sociale que traverse ce continent, en  particulier sur le plan sanitaire. Cuba considère crucial et urgent de condamner et de stopper le vol des cerveaux, pratique  déloyale des pays riches qui prive les pays en développement des talents nécessaires à l’amélioration du bien-être de leurs  peuples. Le Président Fidel Castro a récemment déclaré que « depuis 40 ans, plus de 1 200 000 professionnels d’Amérique  latine et des Caraïbes ont émigré aux États-Unis, au Canada et au Royaume-Uni ».
(24.3) Monsieur le Président, notre attention a été fortement attirée par le fait que ni le Projet de programme et de budget,
2008-2009, ni la Stratégie à moyen terme, 2008-2013 ne mentionnent la réalisation d’activités de l’UNESCO concernant la  méthode d’alphabétisation Yo sí puedo, qui a fait l’objet d’une décision du Conseil exécutif de l’Organisation qui a reconnu à  sa 175e session le caractère positif et l’efficacité de sa mise en œuvre. Cette méthode cubaine a mérité en 2006 l’important  Prix d’alphabétisation Roi Sejong décerné par l’UNESCO. Elle est appliquée dans 28 pays et a permis d’alphabétiser plus de  deux millions et demi de personnes.
(24.4) L’enseignement supérieur cubain est inscrit dans un processus d’universalisation et de transformation permanente  depuis le triomphe de la Révolution de 1959, avec des milliers de places dans toutes les communes du pays et un modèle  pédagogique capable de relever les nouveaux défis de l’Université pour tous tout au long de la vie. Avec une population d’un  peu plus de 11 millions d’habitants, Cuba compte aujourd’hui quelque 730 000 étudiants inscrits à l’Université. L’Université  cubaine accomplit sa vocation de solidarité en formant des professionnels d’autres nationalités, venus pour l’essentiel de pays  du tiers monde. Plus de 50 000 étudiants de 129 pays ont été gratuitement diplômés dans le nôtre. À l’heure actuelle, plus de
30 000 jeunes venant de 120 pays suivent gratuitement des études dans les universités cubaines.
(24.5) Les objectifs de l’UNESCO en matière scientifique et technique ne doivent pas être centrés exclusivement sur l’accès  des pays les moins développés au savoir scientifique existant. Il est impératif d’accroître la capacité de ces pays à produire ce  savoir, et à le transformer en biens et services à forte demande sociale. L’Organisation devrait appuyer le système dit  « d’accès ouvert » pour faciliter la libre consultation des publications scientifiques sur Internet. Promouvoir l’égalité des droits  entre hommes et femmes est un des objectifs les plus nobles de l’UNESCO. Attachons-nous aussi, aux côtés de celui  d’égalité des sexes, à ce que soit toujours énoncé clairement l’objectif d’œuvrer à réduire les écarts de développement entre  nations et entre régions. Monsieur le Président, Cuba considère le droit à la culture comme indispensable au bien-être et à  l’identité culturelle de toute personne et de tout pays. Le dialogue interculturel fait partie intégrante de la politique culturelle  appliquée par le Gouvernement cubain. Tous les niveaux de la société interviennent dans sa conception et sa mise en œuvre,  et il revêt une dimension politique directement liée à la défense de la diversité culturelle, en même temps qu’il est envisagé  comme un système de relations enrichissant la structure sociale et la protection de notre identité culturelle.
(24.6) Pour Cuba, il n’existe pas de modèle unique, donc hégémonique. La cohésion sociale est équivalente au droit de  chaque peuple et de chaque pays à construire, sans ingérence aucune, son propre modèle de développement économique et  social et le système de participation politique de ses citoyens. C’est la conception qui prévaut également au sein du
200  Mouvement des pays non alignés, ainsi que l’a montré sa Conférence ministérielle sur les droits de l’homme et la diversité  culturelle récemment tenue à Téhéran. Les communications à l’échelle planétaire sont actuellement dominées par des  pratiques hégémoniques qui traduisent l’ordre économique international injuste en vigueur. La concentration de la propriété  des grands médias entre des mains privées, loin de contribuer à créer une véritable démocratie informationnelle, restreint  l’accès des citoyens à une information véritable. Ainsi, tandis que le mensonge est consacré en tant que pratique impériale,  prétexte à déclencher des guerres et d’autres actions coercitives, l’information cesse d’être un droit civique pour devenir une  arme subordonnée aux intérêts des groupes économiques dominants et des centres du pouvoir impérial. L’UNESCO doit  serrer les rangs dans la lutte pour la démocratisation de l’information et poursuivre son action en faveur de l’exercice de  journalisme dans un cadre de respect et de sécurité. Pareillement, elle doit promouvoir la défense des espaces audiovisuels  de ses États membres, de telle sorte que ne soient compromises ni leur identité culturelle ni leur souveraineté.
(24.7) Monsieur le Président, nous dénonçons le blocus et la politique de guerre économique, commerciale, financière et  génocide dont Cuba est victime de la part des différentes administrations des États-Unis d’Amérique, et qui sont causes de  graves atteintes dans toutes les sphères de la vie du pays depuis plus de 47 ans. Jamais l’humanité n’a davantage attendu un  effort général pour joindre les connaissances et les volontés en vue d’un développement humain durable dans tous les pays.  Nous devons travailler ensemble à réaliser vraiment les objectifs qui ont donné naissance à l’UNESCO, avec la conviction que  seule une plus grande justice sociale pourra sauver l’espèce humaine. Je vous remercie.
25. The President:   Gracias Señor Juan Vela Valdés. His Excellency Mr Sean Haughey, Minister of State at the Department of  Education of Ireland, would you please take the floor.
26.1 Mr Haughey (Ireland):   Mr President, Director-General, Excellencies, ladies and gentlemen, may I first congratulate you Mr President on  your election as President of the 34th session of the General Conference of UNESCO. I would like to extend a special  word of thanks and praise to all responsible for the Draft Programme and Budget for 2008-2009. I would also like to  thank the Section for EFA Coordination within UNESCO for their continued efforts in promoting the education for all  (EFA) goals, to which Ireland is strongly committed. Despite many gains in the past decade, especially in increased  primary school enrolments, 77 million children are still denied the opportunity to go to school. There is also serious  concern about the deterioration in the quality of education being provided at all levels. The forthcoming meeting of the  High Level Group on Education for All in Dakar will be an important milestone in terms of taking stock of how far we have  come since the World Education Forum in 2000, but also in looking at strategies for ensuring that all children may  exercise their right to a basic education by 2015. Ireland, through its aid programme, has consistently promoted  education, in particular through its support for basic education and primary education. The government’s White Paper on  Irish Aid, published in 2006, strongly endorses the focus on education, and confirms that it will be a priority in the years  ahead. Ireland recognizes UNESCO and its institutions as critically important partners in monitoring progress and  strengthening analytical and planning capacity in support of education for all. The EFA Global Monitoring Report, partly  financed by Ireland, continues to be an excellent source of information on progress towards the EFA goals. The quality of  the reports has been outstanding, and they have had a significant impact on increasing the profile of education and its  importance in poverty reduction.
26.2 Turning to the importance of education in Ireland, we are very conscious of the huge role education has played  in contributing to our economic boom by providing a large pool of mobile and highly skilled labour. Successive Irish  governments invested heavily in education, and recognized that the development of the education and skills of people  was as important a source of wealth as the accumulation of more traditional forms of capital. We are, however,  conscious that present prosperity is no guarantee of future security. We realize that without mechanisms to refresh and  reinvigorate policy, prosperous societies can too easily fall into decline. In the global knowledge-based economy there is  increased recognition that human talent and creativity are the key resource and the only sustainable source of  competitive advantage.
26.3 In relation to the Convention on the Protection and Promotion of the Diversity of Cultural Expressions, I would  like to commend UNESCO on its initiative in this area, and also on the successful outcome of the first ordinary session of  the Conference of Parties held in June 2007. Ireland hereby reaffirms its support for this Convention, which should play  an important role in preserving and promoting cultural diversity. In addition, I am aware that UNESCO is contributing to a  key role in the worldwide fight against doping in sport through its International Convention Against Doping in Sport. In  looking forward to our formal ratification of the UNESCO Convention, I am proud to say that Ireland is active in the  international fight against doping and operates a highly effective national programme, which is recognized internationally  as an outstanding model of its type. Ireland also recognizes and embraces the important role of UNESCO in the  promotion and protection of World Heritage sites and in the creation of a sense of shared heritage globally. UNESCO is  of course presented with various challenges in its heritage role. In the face of increasing development pressure, climate  change, conflict and other factors, there is a need for continued commitment to the preservation of sites of the cultural  and natural heritage, and to balance the need to protect fragile sites with sustainable tourism. Ireland currently has two  sites inscribed on the World Heritage List, Skellig Michael and the Archaeological Ensemble of the Bend of the Boyne, or  in the Irish language, Brú na Bóinne. Skellig Michael, an early medieval island monastic settlement inscribed in 1996,  uniquely preserved and spectacularly sited off the south-west coast of Ireland, represents a unique cultural achievement  from a significant period in Ireland’s history and illustrates the spartan existence of early Irish monks. The prehistoric  sites of the archaeological complex of Brú na Bóinne, inscribed in 1993, contain many outstanding archaeological  features, including a passage tomb with spectacular examples of megalithic art which represent the unique artistic, social  and scientific capabilities of settlers in the area some 5,000 years ago. Inscription on the World Heritage List is an  effective mechanism for raising awareness about heritage preservation for governments and citizens alike. The Irish  Government is committed to the continued protection and preservation of our inscribed sites and to its role under the  World Heritage Convention. We are very interested in expanding our activity in the World Heritage area in conjunction
201  with UNESCO. In this context, it is Ireland’s intention to further the nomination of other sites on the tentative list in the  coming year. Thank you very much.  (Applause)
27. The President:   The time has come to ask His Excellency Mr Juan Pablo de Laiglesia y González de Peredo, Secretary General  of the Spanish Agency for International Cooperation, to take the floor.
(28.1) M. Laiglesia y González de Peredo (Espagne) (traduit de l’espagnol)   Monsieur le Président de la Conférence générale, Mesdames et Messieurs les Ministres, Mesdames et Messieurs,  avant toute chose, je tiens à féliciter l’Ambassadeur Georges N. Anastassopoulos pour son élection à la présidence de cette  Conférence, et à remercier du travail réalisé par le président sortant, M. Musa bin Jaafar bin Hassan. En un jour aussi  important pour l’Union européenne que celui du Traité de Lisbonne, je dirai ensuite, comment pourrait-il en être autrement,  que l’Espagne souscrit à la déclaration faite par le Portugal au nom de l’Union.
(28.2) Monsieur le Président, le XXe siècle s’est achevé sur la conviction générale que l’édification de sociétés du savoir  jettera les bases fermes d’une augmentation du bien-être des pays. Bien-être économique, puisque notre capital humain et  technologique contribue à générer une croissance reposant sur des fondements solides. Mais aussi développement culturel,  civique et social, parce que l’éducation, la pensée et la recherche créent des sociétés instruites, démocratiques et fortes de  leur cohésion sociale, autant de raisons pour lesquelles a été créée l’UNESCO et qui conservent toute leur actualité. John  Stuart Mill disait qu’il n’existe pas de meilleure preuve du progrès d’une civilisation que celle du progrès de la coopération.  L’Espagne, sa population, son gouvernement croient fermement à la nécessité d’un multilatéralisme agissant. Des activités  qui relevaient auparavant de la responsabilité exclusive des États appellent aujourd’hui une réponse basée sur la coordination  et la coopération internationales. La recherche de biens publics internationaux dont nous devons tous bénéficier, comme la  santé, la justice internationale, la protection de l’environnement ou l’accès à l’éducation et à la culture, exige un système  multilatéral solide et actif, assurant à tous une part équitable de ces bienfaits.
(28.3) Un autre grand défi à relever dans les décennies à venir sera sans aucun doute celui de promouvoir la compréhension  de l’autre et l’acceptation de la diversité. Cette immense tâche d’établir des dialogues entre cultures et civilisations, identifiée  dès la création de l’UNESCO comme un élément essentiel de sa mission, revêt en ce début du XXIe siècle une importance  particulière. L’UNESCO appartient - et nous nous en félicitons - au groupe d’amis de l’Alliance des civilisations, dont le  premier Forum, comme vous le savez, se tiendra à Madrid les 14 et 15 janvier 2008. En ce qui concerne, également, les  Objectifs du Millénaire pour le développement, l’Espagne accueille très favorablement le travail accompli par l’UNESCO en  tant qu’institution chef de file dans les domaines de l’éducation, de la science, de la culture et de la communication. Ainsi, pour  ce qui est de l’éducation, de son universalisation et de l’amélioration de sa qualité, l’Espagne appuie des programmes tels que  celui de formation des maîtres en Afrique ou l’Initiative EDUSIDA pour la prévention de la propagation du SIDA grâce à  l’éducation. De même, nous soutenons les efforts de l’UNESCO en Amérique latine pour une éducation de qualité et pour son  prolongement au-delà de l’école primaire.
(28.4) Dans le domaine de la culture, les conventions sur le patrimoine mondial et immatériel constituent de précieux  instruments de valorisation et de préservation de notre héritage commun. Mais je voudrais mentionner ici tout particulièrement  la Convention sur la protection et la promotion de la diversité des expressions culturelles, que l’Espagne appuie résolument et  qui offrira certainement le cadre principal d’une intensification de la coopération culturelle internationale. Cette convention est  aujourd’hui une référence incontournable pour l’Union européenne et pour la Communauté ibéro américaine des nations qui  a élaboré une charte culturelle basée sur les valeurs qu’elle défend. J’ai par ailleurs le plaisir de vous informer qu’a eu lieu à  Madrid en juillet dernier la première réunion d’un comité mondial d’experts en coopération culturelle, qui a réfléchi, dans le  cadre de la Convention, sur les modalités d’action et les acteurs de cette coopération culturelle entre les pays.
(28.5) Pour l’Espagne, les programmes menés par l’UNESCO en matière de communication méritent également une  attention particulière ; à ce domaine, nous avons apporté une importante contribution financière, ainsi qu’au travail de  l’Organisation pour le progrès scientifique et la préservation de l’environnement : les programmes de coopération en  océanographie, en bioéthique, les réserves de biosphère, les systèmes d’alerte précoce et les recherches sur le changement  climatique sont aujourd’hui plus nécessaires que jamais. L’Espagne accueillera en février 2008, à Madrid, le troisième  Congrès mondial des réserves de biosphère. Et l’eau sera ensuite le thème de l’Expo de Saragosse.
(28.6) Monsieur le Président, mon pays s’est joint au projet de révision du fonctionnement du système des Nations Unies  pour en améliorer la cohérence, la coordination et l’efficacité. L’Organisation des Nations Unies est le plus vaste et le plus  complet ensemble d’institutions consacrées au développement des pays les moins favorisés, mais il faut remédier au  morcellement et à la redondance des actions. De fait, il convient d’introduire dans la sphère multilatérale les principes  d’harmonisation de la Déclaration de Paris sur l’efficacité de l’aide au développement de 2005. La création de nouveaux outils  comme le Fonds pour la réalisation des OMD, mis en place par l’Espagne et doté par elle de 528 millions d’euros, répond à  cet effort à la fois quantitatif et qualitatif. Ce fonds exemplaire constitue un mécanisme unique, pluriannuel et suffisant qui  servira à financer des programmes uniques dans des pays pilotes et des projets présentés par les coordonnateurs résidents  auxquels participent plusieurs institutions des Nations Unies. Je voudrais souligner que l’un des volets, relatif à la culture et au  développement, a été ouvert à des projets menés en lien étroit avec les politiques de l’UNESCO. Il s’agit par là de soutenir et  de stimuler les mesures de coordination et de concentration sur le terrain.
(28.7) Pour preuve, en outre, de notre engagement auprès de l’UNESCO, nous avons triplé notre contribution  extrabudgétaire, en devenant en 2006 le sixième pays donateur, et nous souhaitons prendre une part active à la conduite de  l’Organisation en siégeant au Conseil exécutif et dans d’autres organes. Monsieur le Président, Mesdames et Messieurs, à  ces idées et ces engagements s’associe la volonté de mon gouvernement, et tout particulièrement de tous les agents de la  coopération pour le développement, d’améliorer notre capacité à présenter des propositions, diriger des initiatives, créer des  alliances qui nous permettent, à nous tous, de faire face aux défis les plus pressants et de donner des réponses justes aux  grandes inégalités dont nous avons hérité. Je vous remercie.
29.1 Le Président :   Gracias señor González de Peredo. Nous avons noté que l’Espagne est devenue un pays donateur ou  contributeur. Il est à souhaiter que d’autres suivent cet exemple, although one should not be too optimistic.
203  (Le Président poursuit en anglais)
29.2 I now invite His Excellency Mr Harald Neple, the Ambassador of Norway to UNESCO and the Organisation for  Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD), to follow Mr González de Peredo.
30.1 Mr Neple (Norway):   Mr President, Excellencies, distinguished delegates, man-made climate change is perhaps the most difficult  challenge we as the world community face in our generation. We therefore welcome the award of this year’s Nobel  Peace Prize to the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) and to Al Gore. The Prize is a strong recognition  of their efforts to build and disseminate knowledge and towards laying the foundations for measures necessary to  counteract climate change. The extended notion of peace thereby communicated by the Nobel committee corresponds  very closely to UNESCO’s own mandate, based on a holistic vision of peace. We welcome the work now being  undertaken to set up an action plan for UNESCO’s role within the United Nations system to combat climate change.
30.2 The building and dissemination of knowledge on sustainable development is at the very core of the United  Nations Decade of Education for Sustainable Development (2005-2014), coordinated by UNESCO. This Decade is an  important part of education for all (EFA) in every Member State. Norway would like to complement UNESCO on its  efforts, also mirrored in the upcoming Ministerial Round Table on Science and Technology for Sustainable Development  and the Role of UNESCO.
30.3 Among the Millennium Development Goals, access to primary education is one of the goals that is attainable.  The world is making progress. More children are in schools, and less are denied this human right. But still, around
72 million children, the majority of whom are girls, are not in school. And still, almost 800 million adults – two thirds of  whom are women – cannot read and write. Much, therefore, remains to be done. Norway commends UNESCO on taking  the lead role in coordinating the global efforts to ensure all children and youth access to free primary education. Equity,  quality and financing are the emerging issues in the work to ensure education for all. UNESCO needs to coordinate, to  advocate and not least to monitor developments. This should be done in close collaboration with Member States, civil  society, bilateral donors and multilateral organizations. The year 2015 is drawing close, and children not enrolled next  year will definitely not be able to complete their primary education by our target year. My country will actively take part in  these efforts, by hosting next year’s meeting of the High-Level Group on Education for All.
30.4 We must view education in a holistic perspective. Though we give priority to basic education, higher education is  an important prerequisite for economic growth. That is why Norway emphasizes the importance of quality assurance in  cross-border higher education, and expects UNESCO to follow up the guidelines established for this work. Norway would  like to warn against an exclusive focus on academic education. The demand for skilled labour is rapidly increasing. The  education sector needs to meet this challenge. Today, vocational training must be seen as a first-rate option. Both  vocational training and the development of entrepreneurial skills are vital in order to make society prosper.
30.5 Norway highly values the active participation of youth in the activities of UNESCO, and therefore sees the  UNESCO Youth Forum as an important opportunity for input to our debate. However, we regret the lack of organizational  capacity of the Fifth UNESCO Youth Forum, and encourage the Secretariat to ensure that the Forum may realize its full  potential in the future.
30.6 Mr President, Norway supports the budget ceiling of $631 million recommended by the Executive Board. We  hope that moving away from many years with zero nominal growth will be an impetus to the revitalization of UNESCO.  Norway endorses priority accorded to Africa and gender equality. However, we are still trying to do too much within  existing resources. The C/5 document is still not sufficiently focused and result-oriented, and bears the mark of too many  good wishes. We also need to strengthen programme activities at the cost of support activities. The Programme and  Budget for the next biennium must be implemented in the context of United Nations reform, which impacts heavily on  UNESCO. Norway is pleased with the Director-General’s proactive engagement. UNESCO should also use this  opportunity to develop its decentralization strategy. The main element in a future strategy should be to strengthen  UNESCO’s ability to support Member States. This is not done by building weak country offices, but by participating in  United Nations country teams and by providing assistance through strong regional offices and institutes.
30.7 Mr President, science and technology are prerequisites for economic, social and sustainable development.  UNESCO’s science programmes have just been reviewed. The Overall Review Committee on Major Programmes II and  III was quite critical in its findings, and called for a new vision and strategic reorientation of UNESCO’s science  programmes. In the follow-up to the Committee’s recommendations, the focus must be on defining UNESCO’s unique  role in science. The mapping of scientific activities of other United Nations organizations must include an analysis of  areas where UNESCO can provide added value. UNESCO must do less, but better in the field of science.
30.8 The cultural dimension is an indispensable element of policies for sustainable development. Norway expects  UNESCO to play a prominent role in facilitating the implementation in Member States of the Convention on the  Protection and Promotion of the Diversity of Cultural Expressions. Special attention should be given to developing solid  organizational and legal frameworks for cultural policies in Member States.
30.9 Freedom of expression and a free, independent and pluralistic media world are the building blocks in UNESCO’s  inclusive knowledge societies. However, almost daily we witness violations of these fundamental rights and principles. In
2006, at least 113 media workers were killed. During the first eight months of 2007, the corresponding number is  almost 130. UNESCO’s role as a watchdog for freedom of expression is as vital as ever. We need to keep this in mind,  when in 2008 celebrating the sixtieth anniversary of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights.
30.10 Mr President, looking ahead, Norway has great confidence in the United Nations system. But our confidence is  not in the form of a passive acceptance of the situation as it is. The need for improvements is evident, the demands for  efficiency, accountability, credibility and ability to deliver are strong. The proposed overall evaluation of UNESCO should  give Member States, and not least the Director-General, a solid platform for the continued development of UNESCO.  Thank you for your attention.  (Applause)
(32.1) M. Sherif (Association mondiale pour l’appel islamique) (traduit de l’arabe) :   Au nom de Dieu le Clément, le Miséricordieux, Monsieur le Président de la Conférence, Vos Excellences les chefs et  les membres des délégations, j’ai l’honneur de vous transmettre les salutations de mes frères de l’Association mondiale pour  l’appel islamique, qui sont des théologiens, des médecins et des prédicateurs présents dans de nombreuses régions du  monde. J’aimerais, tout d’abord, saluer le Président de la Conférence et lui souhaiter plein succès dans sa tâche, et saluer  mes frères et sœurs les vice-présidents, ainsi que le Président de la précédente session de la Conférence, M. Musa bin Jaafar,  qui a fait un excellent travail l’année dernière, et le Secrétaire de la Conférence générale. Je tiens à saluer tout  particulièrement S. E. le Directeur général de l’UNESCO et ses collaborateurs pour l’action remarquable de l’Organisation,  avec laquelle nous avons l’honneur de coopérer depuis plus de 25 ans. En effet, voici près de 30 ans que nous collaborons  dans les domaines de l’éducation, de la culture, de la science, et du dialogue culturel et civilisationnel. Hier, nous avons eu  l’insigne honneur de signer avec M. Matsuura, le Directeur général, un nouvel accord qui s’inscrit dans le droit fil du premier  accord, signé il y a plus d’un quart de siècle, et qui vise à renforcer notre coopération dans tous ces domaines, dans de  nombreuses régions du monde. La coopération concernera particulièrement l’Afrique, qui était privée de ces services dans le  passé, mais l’UNESCO, et on l’en remercie, a donné la priorité à l’Afrique dans son budget et ses plans. J’ai d’ailleurs  l’honneur de présider un comité non gouvernemental qui conseille l’UNESCO sur les priorités de l’action en Afrique.
(32.2) Mesdames et Messieurs, la culture est un domaine extrêmement important dans lequel l’UNESCO a enregistré de  grandes réussites. Nous, les organisations non gouvernementales et les institutions concernées par les questions religieuses,  culturelles et civilisationnelles, sommes tenues de soutenir son action relative à la culture de la paix et à la coopération car, en  réalité, il n’y a pas de cultures primitives et de cultures avancées. La culture est liée à l’être humain et c’est ce dernier qui, par  la culture de la paix, fait le bien et construit la paix dans le monde, et évite les guerres, le terrorisme et l’oppression. Il n’y a  pas d’exclusion et il n’y a pas de cultures que l’on adopte pour exclure l’autre. Notre monde est petit et nous voulons y vivre au  sein d’une culture non fragmentée. Merci, et que la paix et la miséricorde et la bénédiction de Dieu soient sur vous.
33. The President:   Thank you very much Mr Sherif, we have noted what you said. I would like to close this meeting now, but before  wishing you a good evening, I would like to ask our Secretary to make an announcement which should be useful for you.  Mr Millward, please.
34. The Secretary:   Thank you, President. As I said this morning, this hall is going to be transformed for the cultural evening of  Greece this evening. Please, can I ask you to take with you any personal effects. You may leave the documents – they  will be labelled and will be replaced in exactly the same place for your work tomorrow morning. Thank you.
35. The President:   Thank you very much, Mr Millward. I wish a good evening to all of you and thank you for the excellent spirit of  collaboration that has existed between us, at least here. In the commissions it is a bit more difficult, but we will manage, I  hope.   The meeting rose at 5.25 p.m.  La séance est levée à 17 h 25  Se levanta la sesión a las 17.25  Заседание закрывается в 17.25  א א٥,٢٥א   会议于 17 时 25 分结束