1. The President:   I declare open the twenty-first plenary meeting of the General Conference. You are well aware that according to  the schedule that the General Committee recommended us to follow for the organization of the last phase of our work,  and which you had the kindness to approve, this morning’s plenary meeting will be devoted to the examination and  adoption of the report of the Natural Sciences Commission and of the report of the Social and Human Sciences  Commission. I do not need to remind you that at the same time a joint meeting of the programme commissions is  currently taking place, in parallel to this plenary meeting, in Room II.  Report of the Natural Sciences Commission (SC) (34 C/80)  Rapport de la Commission Sciences exactes et naturelles (SC) (34 C/80)  Informe de la Comisión de Ciencias Exactas y Naturales (SC) (34 C/80)  Доклад Комиссии по естественным наукам (SC) (34 C/80)  א  )٣٤/٨٠()SC(א 自然科学委员会（SC）的报告（34 C/80）
2. The President:   I will start with the report of the Natural Sciences Commission, and I would like to give the floor to the  Chairperson of this Commission, Mr Eriabu Lugujjo, who will present to us the report of this Commission.  Mr Chairperson, the floor is yours.
3.1 Mr Lugujjo (Uganda) (Chairperson of the Natural Sciences Commission – SC):   Thank you Mr President. Distinguished delegates, ladies and gentlemen, I am very pleased to present the  results of the Natural Sciences Commission (SC) to this honourable assembly. First of all, let me thank the members of  the bureau of the Commission for their valuable contribution to bringing our work to a successful conclusion, Vice- Chairpersons: Mr Alexander Boksenberg (United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland), Ms Helena Illnerová  (Czech Republic), Mr Ivan Avila Beloso (Bolivarian Republic of Venezuela), and Mr T. Ramasami (India), and our  Rapporteur, Mr S.E.M. Abdulsalam El-Qallali (Libyan Arab Jamahiriya).
3.2 This year the SC Commission, held its meetings separately from those of the Social and Human Sciences  Commission (SHS). However, after completing the work for natural sciences in five meetings, we had a joint session  spread over three meetings with the Social and Human Sciences Commission to debate and make recommendations on  the overall review of Major Programmes II (Natural Sciences) and III (Social and Human Sciences). The work of the SC  Commission was organized around six agenda items, namely item 3.1 “Consideration and adoption of the Draft Medium- Term Strategy for 2008-2013”, item 4.2 “Consideration and adoption of the Draft Programme and Budget for 2008-2009  for Major Programme II – Natural Sciences”, item 3.2 “Preparation of the Draft Programme and Budget for 2010-2011”,  item 5.10 “Renewal of the Operational Agreement between the UNESCO and the Government of the Netherlands on the  UNESCO-IHE Institute for Water Education”, item 5.6 “Establishment of category 2 centres under the auspices of  UNESCO”, item 5.8 “Preparation of a Central Asian renewable energy (CARE) programme and organization of an  international donors’ forum for the development of renewable energy sources in the region”, and item 3.3 “Overall review  of Major Programmes II and III”.
3.3 Dear colleagues, it is following this structure that the written report presents the recommendations made by the  Commission to the plenary on each item. The debates of our Commission on items 3.1 and 3.2 are covered extensively  in the narrative part of the written report. I will therefore focus on items 4.2, 5.10, 5.6, 5.8 and 3.3 in presenting the  debates of our Commission, with a brief mention only of the 34 C/4 and 35 C/5 debates. The Commission started its  work with item 3.1 “Consideration and Adoption of the Draft Medium-Term Strategy for 2008-2013”. Many delegates  welcomed and expressed support for the Draft Medium-Term Strategy. They found the proposed strategy document  clear, well-written and of good quality. It was appreciated as a rolling strategy, noting that fine-tuning and timely strategic  planning may be done as required after every biennium over the next six years. Many Member States welcomed the  designation of Africa and gender equality as global priorities. Furthermore, some delegations acknowledged positively  the specific intervention provided for youth, least developed countries and small island developing States (SIDS), and  others appreciated the interdisciplinary and intersectoral character of the strategy. On the other hand, a few delegates  expressed the opinion that the strategy document could still be improved in terms of being more focused and less  fragmented in its programmes considering the limited resources available.
3.4 Ladies and gentlemen, prior to examination of the Draft Programme and Budget for 2008-2009 concerning the  natural sciences, the Chairperson of the International Geoscience Programme (IGCP) delivered the joint statement of the  Chairpersons of UNESCO’s six intergovernmental and international scientific programmes: the International Basic  Sciences Programme (IBSP), the International Geoscience Programme, the International Hydrological Programme (IHP),  the UNESCO Intergovernmental Oceanographic Commission (IOC), the Man and the Biosphere (MAB) Programme, and  the Management of Social Transformations (MOST) Programme. The Chairperson presented decisions of the joint
409  meeting of the intergovernmental and international scientific programmes, and emphasized that they intended to  strengthen and enhance their shared role as a scientific advisory body to UNESCO in cooperation with the internal task  force established by the Director-General. The scientific programmes planned to address the objectives of the  implementation plan for the Overall Review Committee’s recommendations as published in document 34 C/13, and to  enhance their contribution to United Nations-wide initiatives.
3.5 Let me now move on to our examination of agenda item 4.2 “Consideration and adoption of the Draft  Programme and Budget for 2008-2009”, Major Programme II – Natural Sciences. In introducing the item, the Assistant  Director-General for Strategic Planning stressed the seamless transition from the strategic programme objectives of the  C4 document to the biennial sectoral priorities and the main lines of action in document 34 C/5. He reiterated the global  priorities on Africa and gender equality, and the priority themes summarized under intersectoral platforms. The Assistant  Director-General for Natural Sciences stressed that the needs of Member States, the One-United Nations approach and  the recommendations of the Overall Review Committee for Major Programmes II and III were taken into account in the  preparation of the Draft Programme and Budget for 2008-2009. He recognized the focus needed for interdisciplinarity,  science education and the priority for Africa. The formulation of science policies in developing countries, better synergies  among the intergovernmental scientific programmes, strengthened UNESCO Chairs and networks, and greater use of  the enormous resources in category 2 centres, were all envisaged as part of the implementation of the recommendations  of the Overall Review Committee. The Assistant Director-General for Natural Sciences further explained that focusing  UNESCO’s core strengths led to the development of four main lines of action, together with intersectoral platforms,  including science education and the strengthening of national research systems. He pointed out key components for  implementation under Major Programme II, including the International Hydrological Programme (IHP), the UNESCO  Intergovernmental Oceanographic Commission (IOC), the World Congress of Biosphere Reserves, the International Year  of Planet Earth 2008, the International Year of Astronomy 2009, the Hyogo Framework for Action and disaster  preparedness and mitigation, and the International Basic Sciences Programme (IBSP) with its focus on human and  institutional capacity-building and advocacy for science.
3.6 An overwhelming number of Member States expressed their general satisfaction with draft document 34 C/5.  The sectoral priorities were endorsed by many for their correspondence with the interests of Member States, as well as  for being specific and target-oriented. The format was appreciated for its clear structure, balanced treatment and  excellent quality, which was a significant improvement on the past. On the other hand, a number of delegates  emphasized the importance of promoting policies and strengthening human and institutional capacities in science,  technology and innovation, including basic sciences and engineering, and felt that that was not spelled out clearly in  document 34 C/5. Other Member States noted that the sectoral priorities were still overly ambitious, and did not reflect  the recommendations of the Overall Review Committee for Major Programmes II and III. The need to reduce activities  and concentrate on a few, new and innovative programmes was emphasized. Ongoing programmes should be reviewed  and their effectiveness assessed. Moreover, some countries proposed the establishment of a science advisory council, a  recommendation of the Overall Review Committee, to provide high-level and in-depth advice to the Director-General in  the formulation of the sector programmes.
3.7 Dear colleagues, many delegations deplored the budget reduction for the Natural Sciences Sector. Having more  tasks than funds, the Sector has remained grossly under-resourced. Member States vigorously called for a strong  political statement from the SC Commission regarding the need to reinforce the Sector’s budget for 2008-2009.  Numerous Member States confirmed their support for the global priorities of Africa and gender equality. It was agreed  that Priority Africa should support initiatives in congruence with the African science agenda put forward by the African  Union and the New Partnership for Africa’s Development (NEPAD). There was generalized and strong support for the  efforts to empower women and girls to increase their participation in science. Various countries gave their resounding  support to the intergovernmental and international science programmes dealing with the environment and management  of natural resources. In particular, there were numerous expressions of appreciation and interest with respect to  UNESCO’s freshwater programmes and their outstanding contribution in connection to the current Natural Sciences  principal priority, and their expected contribution to the execution of document 34 C/5. Particular reference was made to  the International Hydrological Programme (IHP), World Water Assessment Programme (WWAP), the UNESCO-IHE  Institute for Water Education, and the great potential of incorporating the category 2 water-related centres into a network  for strengthening the execution of the freshwater programme, thereby expanding the implementation capabilities of  UNESCO.
3.8 The Member States pressed for a budget increase for the UNESCO Intergovernmental Oceanographic  Commission (IOC) to enable the pursuit of a wider mandate and increase the participation from developing countries in  its activities. The delegates underscored the important contribution of IOC to the goals and visibility of UNESCO and to  the United Nations system as a whole. The Member States highlighted the role of IOC in addressing, among other  things, the issues of climate change and its consequences on oceans and coastal zones, warning and mitigation systems  for tsunamis and other marine hazards, marine scientific research, and assistance to small island developing States  (SIDS). Support was expressed for the activities of the Man and the Biosphere (MAB) Programme. The use of biosphere  reserves as learning laboratories was encouraged, and the importance of transboundary biosphere reserves in conflict  prevention and peace-building was recognized. Several countries mentioned the importance of the celebration of the  United Nations International Year of Planet Earth in 2008 for the strengthening of international cooperation in the field of  earth sciences. In the framework of this international year, they stressed that special efforts needed to be undertaken to  increase earth science education and capacity-building activities. There were calls for the reinforcement of the  International Geoscience Programme, which was particularly underfunded. The issue of improved management of earth  resources, including mineral resources, was underscored as a central element in constructing an efficient sustainable  development policy and for preparing adaptive strategies to improve environmental protection. Member States
410  considered that that was very successfully done through the International Geoscience Programme, despite being  understaffed and underbudgeted.
3.9 Dear colleagues, many delegates stressed the importance of scientific capacity-building and science education  at all levels, especially for the least developed countries, including those in Africa. Interventions by Member States  indicated the great importance of science and technology education, engineering and innovation as keys to development,  all contributing to long-term stability and peace. Some delegations called for increased efforts to strengthen capacity- building in the fundamental sciences, especially in Africa and the least developed countries (LDCs). Stressing the  importance of the basic sciences and engineering, increased funding was proposed for the International Basic Sciences  Programme (IBSP). Member States stressed the need to mobilize scientific knowledge, research, training activities and  development of science policy for underpinning the important contributions of science, technology and innovation to  reaching the goals of sustainable development. UNESCO’s important role as facilitator and catalyst in the areas of  science and technology, capacity-building and strengthening of national research and innovation systems, was  emphasized, and a call to strengthen those efforts was made.
3.10 Dear colleagues, several delegates stressed the strategic role of renewable energy sources for meeting the  targets set for sustainable development and climate change, and subsequently, poverty eradication, paying special  attention to Africa. Other countries also highlighted the need for collaboration and partnership in activities relating to  capacity-building and human resources development in this area. Several speakers voiced concerns about the  increasing vulnerability to natural and human-induced hazards. It was felt that UNESCO’s contribution to disaster  mitigation and preparedness was becoming important. The need for intersectoral approaches to disaster risk reduction  was highlighted. UNESCO would continue to mobilize its house-wide efforts to follow-up the Mauritius Strategy for the  Further Implementation of the Programme of Action for the Sustainable Development of Small Island Developing States  (SIDS) through the dedicated intersectoral platform, devoting particular attention to youth and other vulnerable groups.  Several countries agreed that science and technology policy and research should be supported by local and indigenous  knowledge. In that regard, it was noted that UNESCO continued to bridge the gap between science and culture, and  between scientific and local knowledge, through its Local and Indigenous Knowledge Systems (LINKS) programme.  Many countries stressed the importance of promoting, as a priority, science policy and science policy research, and  expressed their wish to have that as priority one in document 35 C/5. The results of our work on document 34 C/5 are  presented in the Commission’s written report.
3.11 Ladies and gentlemen, moving on now to agenda item 3.2, allow me to give you a brief overview of the  Preparation of the Draft Programme and Budget for 2010-2011 (35 C/5). Member States declared the urgent need for  increased funding for the vital activities of the Natural Sciences Sector. The importance of activities in science education  and for capacity-building in the basic sciences was stressed, especially for Africa and the least developed countries. The  need to enhance the status of women in science and technology was reiterated. In line with the recommendations of the  Overall Review Committee, several speakers emphasized the importance of promoting and giving priority to policies and  capacity-building in science, engineering, technology and innovation. Priorities relating to water, global changes,  environmental protection and energy were also suggested
3.12 Dear colleagues, let us now move on to item 5.10 “Renewal of the Operational Agreement between UNESCO  and the Government of Netherlands on the UNESCO-IHE Institute for Water Education”. In March 2003, an Operational  Agreement was signed by UNESCO and the Government of the Netherlands, which, together with a Seat Agreement  and a Cooperation Agreement, marked the creation of the UNESCO-IHE Institute for Water Education as a category 1  institute located in Delft, Netherlands. It was agreed that at the end of the first five years, an external evaluation would be  conducted in order to provide input to a decision by the Government of Netherlands to renew the annual grant to the  Institute. The evaluation was completed in mid-September with favourable results. The delegates drew attention to the  critical importance of water education and to the outstanding contribution being made by the Institute. The importance of  collaboration between the International Hydrological Programme (IHP) and the UNESCO-IHE Institute for Water  Education was underlined, as well as the need to train even greater numbers of water professionals, including through  partnership arrangements with institutions within Member States. Some countries expressed specific concerns regarding  the number of students that could be admitted to the UNESCO-IHE programmes, as well as the current lack of a plan for  the integration of IHE within UNESCO Natural Sciences Sector programming. The importance of clearly defining the role  of IHE within the International Hydrological Programme and the World Water Assessment Programme (WWAP) was  emphasized. Resounding support was expressed for the renewal of the current agreements. The Netherlands indicated  that the financial support it provided to the Institute was an indication of its commitment to water issues, and that it was  willing to consider maintaining the annual grant, as well as the increase requested. The Netherlands joined other  countries which expressed their view that other Member States should contribute to the financing of UNESCO-IHE,  including support in the form of fellowships. The draft resolution proposed in document 34 C/47 was fully endorsed by the  SC Commission. The Commission is thus recommending that the General Conference adopt the resolution renewing the  Operational Agreement between UNESCO and the Government of Netherlands on the UNESCO-IHE Institute for Water  Education.
3.13 Dear colleagues, on item 5.6, Member States gave their unqualified endorsement to the establishment of the  new category 2 centres under the auspices of UNESCO. They were convinced that the centres raised the visibility of the  Organization, provided opportunities for South-South and North-South-South cooperation, offered an innovative  approach to capacity-building, and allowed prospects for networking. Some countries stressed that the centres reflected  the commitment of Member States to assist the Organization in its functions. A few delegates pointed out that the centres  reached out not only to scientists and technical staff, but to also policy- and decision-makers. Many countries expressed  their wish to support, cooperate or associate themselves with the regional and international centres. The Commission
411  decided to recommend that the General Conference adopt all the resolutions for the establishment of the proposed  category 2 centres under the auspices of UNESCO.
3.14 Ladies and gentlemen, item 5.8 concerned the elaboration of a Central Asian renewable energy (CARE)  programme, and organization of an international donors’ forum for the development of sources of renewable energy in  the region. Numerous delegates considered renewable energy an important issue, and welcomed the initiative of  Kazakhstan. Other countries found the proposal interesting, and acknowledged that UNESCO had a mandate in  renewable energy, and had an important role to play. Some delegations indicated that it was an initiative which was  important to many developing countries, including Africa, and which might open up opportunities for South-South  collaboration and sharing of outcomes and experiences. Nevertheless, several delegates doubted that UNESCO had a  role to play in the field of renewable energies, and were concerned about duplication with other United Nations agencies.  Others found the proposal unclear, and expressed concerns that the proposal could distract efforts from the priority of  Africa, and were of the opinion that convening a donors’ forum was not an appropriate UNESCO action.
3.15 In his reply to the statements, the Assistant Director-General for Natural Sciences referred to strategic  programme objective 4 of the Draft Medium-Term Strategy 2008-2013 and the Draft Programme and Budget 2008-2009,  and acknowledged the UNESCO’s mandate in the field of renewable energies. He asserted that consultations in the  region had been undertaken, and no other United Nations agency had taken initiatives in the region. Consensus was  reached on the agreed wording for the draft resolution, and you will find this in the written report that we are submitting to  this plenary meeting today.
3.16 The SC and SHS Commissions held a joint meeting to consider item 3.3 “Overall review of Major Programmes II  and III”. The Deputy Director-General, as Chairperson of the Overall Review Committee, introduced the debate, by  explaining the timeline of the Committee’s work, the Committee’s nine recommendations, the establishment of the Task  Force on Major Programmes II and III, and the implementation plan for the sciences. With regard to the Committee’s  recommendation 9 on the establishment of an external science advisory committee, the Deputy Director-General pointed  to the need for UNESCO to address the Committee’s recommendations before considering the establishment of a new  advisory group. All interventions indicated appreciation for the work and recommendations of the Overall Review  Committee. Member States confirmed in general the importance of the Committee’s recommendations, and in particular  those regarding: (1) science policy advice for capacity-building, especially for LDCs; (2) education and teacher training at  all levels from pre-school through to university level; and (3) increased interdisciplinary and intersectoral work in  UNESCO’s science programmes. While many delegates appreciated the Committee’s recommendations and expected  their implementation, there were those who questioned how implementation could be achieved with limited resources.  Many countries pointed to the importance of the monitoring and assessment of programmes to enable the selection of  new and innovative programmes.
3.17 Regarding the Committee’s recommendation 9, many Member States stressed the importance of having an  external advisory committee, while several others considered that such a committee would impinge on the prerogatives  of Member States, and would add a costly and unnecessary layer of bureaucracy to the Organization. In his response to  the debate, the Deputy Director-General replied that regarding the view that the implementation plan was not emphatic  enough, UNESCO needed to be pragmatic about what the Organization would achieve, given the limited funding  available, and that the reorientation of the sciences programmes would take place over the entire 2008-2013 period of  the next Medium-Term Strategy. However, significant changes would already take place in the 2008-2009 period, such  as the launching of the intersectoral platforms. In the discussions leading to the draft resolution in document 34 C/13,  various Member States expressed differing views and opinions regarding proposed amendments. In relation to the  consultations to be undertaken with the scientific community, including the external members of the former Science  Review Panel, in the process of carrying out the implementation plan, one delegate emphasized that those consultations  should be carried out electronically and without the use of programme budget. Norway emphasized that if the General  Conference did not agree and clearly stated that there was a need for some strategic reorientation of UNESCO’s science  activities, then it was deeply worried about the future of UNESCO in the field of science. The informal debate led to a  consensus on agreed wording for the recommended resolution which has been incorporated into the written report.
3.18 Ladies and gentlemen, before ending my oral report, I would like to mention a couple of technical matters to do  with the written report. Regarding the discrepancies noted by several delegations between the French and English  versions of the written report, they are to be corrected in the final records of the General Conference. In addition, it was  brought to my notice this morning, that the recommendation from the SC Commission regarding re-allocation of funds for  IOC from parts of the budget other than that for Natural Sciences should indicate Part II.A of the budget, whereas in the  report we refer to Part II and omitted the A. This brings me to the conclusion of my oral report. I hope I have succeeded  in capturing some of the density and richness of our debates over the past week, and in highlighting the orientations  provided by this Commission for the programmes on the Natural Sciences. I thank you very much for your attention.  (Applause)
4.1 The President:   I think that we should congratulate Mr Eriabu Lugujjo for his report and what he himself has called the richness  of the discussions in that commission. Those of us who had a chance to examine rather carefully the report have noted  that there were quite a few approaches from members of the Commission on a number of subjects, and we have noted  the effort that has been given to present all those different approaches. This was not an easy question, I know, without  doubt, and I think that it is a good report. I must say, I do not wish to embellish things, far from it, you will see this  evening when I give my own personal opinion about this General Conference, but I have been favourably impressed by  the level of most of the reports. The reports have been good. By and large, they have been good. That is a good thing, it
412  shows that colleagues have tried to work very seriously and very carefully, and, naturally, we have our differences of  opinion.
4.2  Now, I would like to ask colleagues if they have any comments to make, please ask for the floor. Notez s’il y en  a quelqu’un ou quelqu’une ? L’Italie. Le professeur Bussoletti.
5. Mr Bussoletti (Italy):   Now, this is just simply to thank warmly, on the behalf of our delegation, the Chairperson of the SC Commission.  He has managed his job perfectly well from a human point of view and a professional point of view. So, really, we  appreciated his work very much, and we want to say that formally and officially here. Thank you very much.
6.1 Le Président :   Merci, Monsieur Brossolette, d’avoir pris la parole pour adresser à M. Eliabu Lugujjo un éloge amplement  mérité.
6.2 En l’absence d’autres commentaires, je propose que la Conférence générale adopte le rapport que M. Eliabu  Lugujjo nous a présenté et les projets de résolution qui nous sont soumis, sous réserve toutefois des décisions sur les  questions budgétaires qui doivent être adoptées maintenant par la réunion conjointe des commissions de programme et  qui nous seront soumises très prochainement avec la résolution portant ouverture de crédits.
6.3 Y a-t-il des objections ? Je n’en vois pas. Il en est ainsi décidé. Je remercie de nouveau M. Eliabu Lugujjo.   (Applaudissements)  Report of the Social and Human Sciences Commission (SHS) (34 C/81)  Rapport de la Commission Sciences sociales et humaines (SHS) (34 C/81)  Informe de la Comisión de Ciencias Sociales y Humanas (SHS) (34 C/81)  Доклад Комиссии по социальным и гуманитарным наукам (SHS) (34 C/81)  א א  )٣٤/٨١()SHS(א 社会科学及人文科学委员会（SHS）的报告（34 C/81）
7. Le Président :   Nous passons à présent au rapport de la Commission Sciences sociales et humaines. Son Président, M. Július  Oszlányi, va nous le présenter. Monsieur le Président, vous avez la parole.
8.1 Mr Oszlányi (Slovakia) (Chairperson of the Social and Human Sciences Commission – SHS):   Merci. Mr President of the General Conference, Mr Director-General, distinguished delegates, ladies and  gentlemen, it is indeed a great honour for me to address the honourable assembly to relate the debates of the SHS  Commission and to provide you with the results of our work. Allow me also to pay tribute to the members of the Bureau  of the SHS Commission, who supported and accompanied the Commission all throughout its work. Also I will attempt to  present you with a concise report, and consequently to express a great deal in a limited number of words. I will do my  utmost to report exhaustively on our intense debates. Time will not allow me to acknowledge one by one the detailed  presentations of the representatives of the Director-General, but I wish to state that the work of our Commission was  greatly facilitated by these contributions, and I thank you all. I am certain you are aware that this was the first time since
1999 that the General Conference has set up a commission especially, specifically devoted to the social and human  sciences. In all, 308 speakers took part in our rich and fruitful exchanges. More than 90 States took the floor during the  work of the Commission: 10 working meetings, instead of the six initially foreseen, and several prolonged meetings.  Simply looking at these numbers, they are clearly evidence of the extent of the interest accorded to by Member States to  the social and human sciences programme of UNESCO, and confirmation of the relevance and the timeliness of the  establishment of the SHS Commission. Of course, throughout our debates, Member States expressed opinions and  points of view that were at times divergent as far as modalities of action are concerned, which in fact enriched our  debates, and an explicit appeal was made for an increased synergy and increased coordination and cooperation with  other programmes of UNESCO, in particular with the natural sciences and education programmes. Nevertheless, the  Commission was unanimous in recognizing the unique role that the social and human sciences have to play in  confronting the global changes we face today, particularly in the context of UNESCO’s ambitious mandate to build peace  in the minds of men.
8.2 Ladies and gentlemen, our Commission was called upon to consider seven items on the agenda; and it is in the  order in which these items were considered that I will relate our work and our deliberations. As is customary, the  Commission began its work with the presentation of the statement by the Chairpersons of the six science programmes of  UNESCO: the International Basic Sciences Programme (IBSP), the International Geoscience Programme, the  International Hydrological Programme (IHP), the UNESCO Intergovernmental Oceanographic Commission (IOC), the  Man and the Biosphere (MAB) Programme, and the Management of Social Transformations (MOST) Programme. This  time the statement was presented by Mr Harjeet Singh, Under-Secretary, Ministry of Women, Family and Community  Development of Malaysia, and Rapporteur of the Intergovernmental Council of the MOST Programme. The statement,  which is included in annex to the written report of the Commission, underlines the desire of these programmes to  contribute to the firm commitment of Member States in support of the strengthening of the scientific programmes of  UNESCO.
8.3 Ladies and gentlemen, I will now relate the debate on item 3.1 concerning the Draft Medium-Term Strategy for
2008-2013, which was the first item examined by our Commission. Forty-two delegations and two observers took the
413  floor on this item. There was strong support for the new Medium-Term Strategy for 2008-2013, and thus for the collective  work of the Secretariat and of the Executive Board. Many delegations appreciated the intersectoral and interdisciplinary  approach which prevailed in the preparation of draft document 34 C/4 and for the drafting of the strategic objectives. The  Draft Medium-Term Strategy is strictly results-based, with clear references to the contribution of UNESCO to the  achievement of internationally agreed development goals, and the Secretariat was commended on the progress made in  this respect. However, some delegates considered that there was still room for improvement, by reducing for example  the number of priorities and in sharpening the focus of the work of the Organization. Several delegates raised the  question of evaluation, stressing the need for the Medium-Term Strategy to contain information on what had not worked  in the previous period, and welcomed the C/4 document becoming a truly rolling strategy, which could be reviewed and,  as necessary, revised by the General Conference so as to reflect the possible changes concerning UNESCO’s fields of  competence.
8.4 There was unanimous support for the emphasis placed on Africa and gender equality as global priorities. Some  delegates nevertheless expressed the wish that these priorities should not result in a loss for other specific groups,  namely the least developed countries, the small island developing States (SIDS), and youth. The general orientation of  Major Programme III was well received. Delegates were almost unanimous in underscoring the importance of ensuring a  strong and effective link between research and policy. There were also many references to the need to maintain the  important work of the Organization regarding ethics and science in its several various dimensions, as well as addressing  emerging ethical needs. The debate on this item is extensively covered in the narrative part of our written report. I  therefore invite you to refer to that report for more details.
8.5 Ladies and gentlemen, a large part of our time was devoted to Item 4.2 concerning the Draft Programme and  Budget for 2008-2009 – Major Programme III. The Commission decided to organize its debate on this item into three  successive sub-discussions according to the three biennial sectoral priorities. In this way members of the Commission  were able to consider and carry out in-depth and focused thematic discussions on the programmes and activities of the  Organization in the field of social sciences. I should mention that a few Member States expressed the view that the  availability of information on programme performance and major results achieved by the Sector would have facilitated the  deliberation of Member States on activities envisaged for the next biennium.
8.6 The first sub-discussion was on biennial sectoral priority 1: Promoting principles, practices and ethical norms  relevant for scientific, technological and social development. The 42 Member States that spoke on this item stressed the  importance of the programme and the work of UNESCO with regard to the ethics of science and technology and  expressed their support for this priority. The leadership of the Organization at international level had been confirmed in  this field, thanks also to the activities of the International Bioethics Committee (IBC) and the Intergovernmental Bioethics  Committee (IGBC) as well as the World Commission on the Ethics of Scientific Knowledge and Technology (COMEST),  and of course through the declarations adopted in the field of bioethics. While recognizing the quality and value of the  work accomplished by those statutory bodies, several delegates stressed the importance of strengthening dialogue,  coordination and interaction between these bodies, both between IBC and IGBC, and between COMEST, IBC and IGBC.  In this respect, the representative of the Director-General reiterated that increased synergy and concrete modalities of  interaction between these three bodies had already been envisaged for the next biennium. Several delegates underlined  the importance of UNESCO’s action aimed at assisting Member States in the implementation of the three existing  declarations, and expressed their support for the different capacity-building and awareness-raising activities such as the  Global Ethics Observatory (GEOBs), the Ethics Education programme, the Assisting Bioethics Committees (ABC)  project, and the setting up of regional bioethics information and documentation research centres. Certain delegates  asked how respect for cultural diversity, including indigenous knowledge, traditions and local ethical norms, could be  interlinked with the promotion of the development of universal ethical principles in the field of bioethics. Likewise, some  speakers stated that they were somewhat perplexed as to the actual possibility of implementing and respecting ethical  principles established by the international community at the national scientific research level and at the level of the  private sector. Capacity-building was therefore also necessary at the highest decision-making level, in order to heighten  ethical awareness within the national research systems. UNESCO, as a catalyst in spurring debates, had a unique role to  play in this regard. Concerning standard-setting action, certain delegates called for caution with regard to initiatives  leading to the elaboration of new instruments in that field, whereas others insisted that UNESCO should go forward in its  standard-setting role by encouraging the elaboration of new instruments. The need to invest further efforts and work in  the elaboration of regional instruments in the field of ethics was also mentioned; and while recognizing that such  initiatives should be taken at the appropriate regional decision-making level, the Commission stressed that UNESCO  should provide its technical support.
8.7 Finally, several delegates underlined the importance of strengthening cooperation between Major Programmes II  and III in order to promote ethical awareness in the natural sciences; and furthermore, some suggested that the ethics of  science and technology become an overarching priority both for the social and human sciences as well as for the natural  sciences, or even an integral part of the five major programmes of UNESCO. Other speakers stressed the  pluridisciplinary character of ethics of science and technology, and the close link between that programme and those of  philosophy, human rights and inter-cultural dialogue.
8.8 Ladies and gentlemen, let me move to the sub-discussion on the second biennial sectoral priority aimed at  strengthening national and regional research systems in order to provide policy-oriented research on social and ethical  issues in such diverse fields as poverty eradication, migration, urban development, youth and women, as well as sport  and physical education. The majority of the 57 Member States that took the floor expressed their strong support for the  Management of Social Transformations (MOST) Programme, and for the focus on enhancing research-policy linkages  that could raise UNESCO’s profile as a laboratory of ideas. Issues relating to social transformations entailed in-depth  analysis and the elaboration of new academic formulae that could orient political decision-making. It was also
414  underscored that the quality and efficiency of such an interface needed to be seriously examined in its activity planning  and implementation process. The MOST Programme was encouraged to pursue its work by gaining the additional  involvement of non-governmental organizations, civil society movements and national research systems. MOST national  liaison committees, the sub-committees for social sciences of the National Commissions for UNESCO, UNESCO Chairs  and national and international research institutes should also cooperate more closely with the MOST Programme. In this  connection, while not retaining the amendments proposed in 34 C/DR.7, the Commission shared the concerns contained  therein, and acknowledged the importance of promoting institutional capacity-building and dialogue with national  research centres and networks, including national liaison committees and MOST-related committees. The MOST forums  of ministers of social development were mentioned several times as a major initiative contributing to creating policy  dialogue spaces at the regional and subregional levels. The International Forum on the Social Science-Policy Nexus  (referred to as the Buenos Aires Process) allowed States to reflect on new tools to bring together stakeholders for fruitful  dialogue and to build capacity for policy formulation. Within the overall framework of capacity-building needs, Member  States asked for the development of appropriate scientific policies, the strengthening of national research systems, and  adequate diffusion of research results with a view to helping Member States to develop evidence-based social policies.  Regional research-policy linkages were actively called for by many Member States. A call for making closer links  between the MOST Programme and other programmes within the Social and Human Sciences Sector such as human  rights, democracy, culture of peace, and the dialogue among civilizations and cultures, was voiced by several Member  States. That should also include the Education Sector, UNESCO’s Priority Africa programme, the UNESCO Institute for  Statistics, and other regional social science organizations.
8.9 While supporting the MOST Programme, some delegates expressed concern over the ambitious list of planned  activities and suggested more focus and concentration for the sake of greater programme coherence and credibility.  MOST should benefit from a substantive results-based programme, accompanied by a concrete and phased plan of  action with realistic objectives, higher quality research and a relevant clearing house. In the same vein, they suggested a  mid-term review and clearer reporting of past results, in particular an updating of the evaluation report of the MOST  Programme for 2002-2003.
8.10 Finally, I recall that the Commission discussed intensely the need to provide the MOST Programme with  adequate financial support, and recommended that the Director-General make every effort in this respect. Particular  reference was made to the issue of migration as a multifaceted and complex phenomenon. UNESCO should contribute  to the analysis of different migrant cultures and identities, and the way in which migration contributed to promoting  cultural diversity. A number of Member States endorsed UNESCO’s work in the domain of anti-doping, and expressed  considerable satisfaction with the progress made in the implementation of the International Convention against Doping in  Sport. As for sport and physical education, its contribution to promoting intercommunity and intercultural dialogue as well  as to peace-building was underlined by several Member States. Several Member States nevertheless raised questions  about the optimal placement of that programme, and of physical education and sport in general, within the organizational  structure of UNESCO.
8.11 Dear colleagues, under item 4.2, the Commission finally debated on the third biennial priority sectoral priority on  the dialogue among civilizations and cultures, and a culture of peace through philosophy, human rights and the fight  against discrimination, to which the Commission wished to add “good governance”. All of the Sector’s actions within this  third priority are in fact based on integrated strategies adopted by the governing bodies of UNESCO.
8.12 Thirty-four Member States and two observers took the floor during the debate. The majority expressed their  support for the objectives defined within the scope of this third biennial sectoral priority. They underlined the close links  that exist between philosophy, human rights and the fight against discrimination, as well as their importance for the  promotion of mutual understanding, tolerance and the culture of peace. Philosophy and human sciences could make  significant contributions to dialogue among civilizations and cultures. Some delegates stressed that the Organization  should work in closer cooperation with the United Nations Secretary-General initiative on the “Alliance of Civilizations” in  order to increase UNESCO’s visibility within the United Nations system. Many delegations appreciated the close  cooperation between National Commissions and the Secretariat, and welcomed UNESCO’s engagement in World  Philosophy Day. In the same manner, the ongoing initiatives for philosophical dialogue among regions were welcomed. It  was suggested that during the next biennium, attention should also be paid to dialogue within one and the same region.  At the international level, UNESCO’s initiative to create a network of women philosophers was well received. Teaching of  philosophy was a central item in the discussion. The publication Philosophy: A School of Freedom was cited as an  important working tool both to enhance the visibility of this discipline. It was also stressed that teaching western, oriental  and other currents of philosophy was very important, as was the production of good learning material. The  encouragement of interregional dialogue among historians was emphasized as a means to fight against falsifications,  stereotypes and incomplete visions, and thus facilitate understanding among peoples and consolidate the basis for a  culture of peace. While some delegates stated that research on emerging social needs should be encouraged, and that  UNESCO should play a leading role in that political arena, others considered that other organizations had the mandate to  do so. Many Member States gave their support to UNESCO’s work on human rights, but regretted the decrease of  importance given to UNESCO’s action in the field of human rights. Several delegates supported the programme on the  fight against racism, discrimination, xenophobia and related intolerance. It was stated and felt that that programme  should not only concentrate on racism, but also on other forms of discrimination and stigmatization, such as HIV-related  discrimination. Some delegates highly appreciated the International Coalition of Cities against Racism project as an  interesting platform of exchange for policy formulation involving diverse actors, including those working at the grass-roots  level. They called for development of that project guaranteeing the involvement of their respective National  Commissions.
8.13 Ladies and gentlemen, at the end of an extensive and rich debate on document 34 C/5, the SHS Commission  examined, of course, the recommendations of the Executive Board concerning the Programme and Budget for 2008-
2009 as well as the draft resolutions submitted by Member States. You will find the results of these deliberations  reflected in the draft resolution included in the written report of the Commission. In this connection, as you are aware,
34 C/DR.19 was examined in a joint meeting with the SC Commission, and some delegates insisted that the underlying  concerns be taken into consideration when preparing document 35 C/5: on the one hand, the overarching role of ethics  of science and technology with regard to both Programmes II and III, and on the other hand, the appropriate location of  programmes relating to sport within the major programmes of UNESCO, as well as the relevance of activities related to  traditional sports and games in UNESCO.
8.14 Ladies and gentlemen, the Natural and Social and Human Sciences Commissions considered, in a joint  meeting, item 3.3 concerning the overall review of Major Programmes II and III. Forty-one Member States and three  observers took the floor, and indicated their appreciation for the work accomplished by the Overall Review Committee.  They confirmed in general the importance of the Committee’s recommendations, and in particular those regarding:  science policy advice for capacity-building, especially for least developed countries; education and teacher training at all  levels, from pre-school through to university level; and increased interdisciplinary and intersectoral work in UNESCO’s  sciences programmes. While many delegates questioned the extent to which implementation could be achieved with the  limited resources available, many countries underlined the importance of monitoring and assessing programmes to  enable the selection of new and innovative programmes. A few Member States considered that the implementation plan  was too tentative, and that the recommendations of the Committee were not adequately reflected in the current versions  of documents 34 C/4 and 34 C/5. In this respect, the Deputy Director-General indicated that UNESCO needed to be  pragmatic about what the Organization could achieve, given the limited funding available, and that the reorientation of  the science programmes would take place over the entire period of the next Medium-Term Strategy. However, significant  changes, such as the launch of the intersectoral platforms, would already take place in the 2008-2009 biennium. Some  delegations also indicated their support for an expanded version of document 34 C/INF.13 in order to provide guidance  for UNESCO to better align its science activities within the United Nations system.
8.15 With regard to the Overall Review Committee’s recommendation 9 on the establishment of an external science  advisory committee, different views were expressed. While some Member States stressed the importance of such a  committee, and affirmed that the committee could provide its expertise to reinforce UNESCO’s science programmes,  others questioned the relevance and timeliness of the recommendations, as such a committee would impinge on the  prerogatives of Member States, and would add a costly and unnecessary layer of administration to the Organization. The  Commission agreed that in the process of carrying out the implementation plan, UNESCO should indeed continue to rely  on external advice as needed, and broad consultations should be held with the scientific community, including the  external members of the former Overall Review Committee. In this respect, one delegate emphasized that those  consultations should be carried out without using the regular budget, for example via e-mail. I would like to point out that  at the end of our deliberations on this item, Norway emphasized that if the General Conference did not agree on the  needs for a strategic reorientation of UNESCO’s science activities, the future of UNESCO in the field of science could be  compromised.
8.16 Distinguished delegates, the SHS Commission also examined three specific items relating to Major Programme  III. Let me start with item 5.5. Eleven speakers, including one observer, took the floor on this item to support the initiative  undertaken by Greece that aims at establishing an observatory on women, sport and physical education under the  auspices of UNESCO. The initiative fully corresponded to the approach taken in the social and human sciences of  considering sport, not only in its educational dimension, but also as a factor contributing to the development of society.  The establishment of the observatory could increase the visibility and strengthen the coordination of UNESCO’s action in  favor of equity for women in the field of sport and physical education; several members of the Commission expressed  their wish to participate in the activities to be developed within the framework of this initiative. At the end of our  deliberations on this item, the distinguished delegate of Greece warmly thanked the members of the Commission for their  support.
8.17 I now come to our discussion on item 5.12 regarding the establishment of an international institute for human  rights education in the city of Buenos Aires under the auspices of UNESCO. The item was introduced by the  distinguished delegate of Argentina, who recalled the history of Argentina during its military dictatorship and its long-term  struggle for the defence of human rights. Thirty-two delegates took the floor, and strongly supported the proposal, which  could be closely linked to the celebration of the 60th anniversary of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. The  proposed institute could contribute to strengthening cooperation among diverse actors working in the field of human  rights education, and thus reinforce the culture of human rights. Some considered that the focus of this initiative should  not be limited to Latin America and the Caribbean, but should involve other regions in partnership with other institutions.  The draft resolution included in the written report for your consideration reflects the wish of the Commission that sufficient  time be given to the Secretariat in order to establish an appropriate feasibility study before its submission to the  Executive Board.
8.18 Ladies and gentlemen, the Commission devoted an important part of its work to the examination of item 5.16 on  the celebration of the 60th anniversary of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. It goes without saying that the  Commission unanimously recognized the importance of this celebration, and the need for UNESCO to contribute within  the framework of its constitutional mandate. Twenty-nine Member States took the floor in the discussion on this item. It  was underlined that UNESCO should focus on the rights that fell specifically within the Organization’s competence. It  was indicated that the anniversary should serve to assess the progress achieved in the implementation of these rights,  and the obstacles to be overcome. In particular it could be an occasion to make an assessment of the participation of all  actors of society in achieving the implementation of the rights for and by everyone. Some delegates welcomed the
416  prominent role given to human rights education and youth. The need for a stronger emphasis on freedom of the press  and the protection of journalists was also highlighted.
8.19 UNESCO’s draft plan of action included activities already foreseen in document 34 C/5 which could be placed  under the banner of the celebration, as well as a limited number of specific activities that would be implemented, subject  to voluntary contributions being collected. Many speakers expressed their support for the draft plan of action, but  regretted the short amount of time accorded, not only for its preparation, but also for the Member States to study it fully.  Some considered that the content of the plan was not ambitious enough in comparison with the emblematic scope of the  Declaration itself, while others noted the need for a more focused plan and further consultations with Member States.  Numerous delegates called for a strengthened role of UNESCO National Commissions and field offices in the  implementation of the plan. That would reinforce UNESCO’s visibility at the national level. The Organization was invited  to cooperate closely with Member States for the planning and implementation of regional activities. An appeal was also  made to coordinate activities with other members of the United Nations family and to create synergies with regional  organizations dealing with human rights. A proposal was made to involve the Executive Board’s Committee on  Conventions and Recommendations in the commemorative activities.
8.20 Ladies and gentlemen, it was thanks to the willingness and spirit of consensus among Member States, and on  the basis of a compromise text prepared by an informal working group, that the Commission was able to approve the  draft resolution as it was included in the written report. This draft resolution entrusts the Director-General with the  mandate to further refine UNESCO’s plan of action in consultation with Member States and to take the appropriate steps  to implement it immediately, and at the same time requests the Executive Board to regularly review the progress made  on the implementation of UNESCO’s plan of action. At the end of the debate on this item, Mr Sané informed the  Commission of the support of the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights for UNESCO’s  action related to the celebration of the 60th anniversary of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights.
8.21 Ladies and gentlemen, the last item on our agenda, item 3.2 “Preparation of the Draft Programme and Budget  for 2010-2011”, is also covered by the narrative part of the written report. Thirteen speakers, including an observer, took  part in our debate. Several delegates stressed the need for continuity between the Medium-Term Strategy and the 2010-
2011 Programme and Budget, which should be prepared with careful consideration, and the overarching objectives and  strategic programme objectives of the Organization. They emphasized the need for UNESCO to adopt a problem-based  approach, and to strengthen, in that regard, interdisciplinary work and initiatives, particularly through the intersectoral  platforms. Several delegates also stressed the need for continued application of a results-based programming approach,  and for further improvement in the evaluation of and the reporting on the results attained, particularly with regard to both  quantitative and qualitative results. Others suggested that sunset clauses should be formulated in document 35 C/5 to  allow the phasing-out of programmes or projects, and that the linkages between regular programme and extrabudgetary  resources should be better articulated. Delegates generally expressed support for a continuation of the two priorities,  namely Africa and gender equality. Several speakers stressed the need for active involvement in the process of United  Nations reform (United Nations system-wide coherence), in particular to avoid overlaps between agencies. In that regard,  the role of National Commissions was emphasized. A few delegates recommended a decrease in the ratio of staff to  activities and a relative increase in the resources devoted to social and human sciences in general.
8.22 Ladies and gentlemen, I come to the conclusion of my oral report. I hope that I have been able to capture the  depth and the richness of our debates and highlight the broad directions agreed upon by this Commission. It is without  doubt thanks to the interactive spirit of dialogue, mutual respect and understanding that the Commission was able to  successfully accomplish its work. The task before me today has not been an easy one – relating in some 30 minutes  more than 40 hours of intense and rich discussions. I therefore beg your indulgence if there have been any omissions in  my report. I thank you very much for your kind attention.  (Applause)
9. The President:   Thank you very much, Mr Július Oszlányi, for the report. I think that it was not that difficult for you to prove that  you can sum up in 30 minutes discussions lasting 40 hours, so you should not be dissatisfied. We are not dissatisfied. I  would like to ask whether there are any comments from colleagues. The representative of the Islamic Republic of Iran,  please.
10. Mr Tavakol Kosari (Islamic Republic of Iran):   Thank you, Mr President, the Islamic Republic of Iran would like to congratulate the Chairperson of the  Commission, the Assistant Director-General for Social and Human Sciences, and the Secretariat colleagues for the  preparation of the comprehensive and to-the-point version of the final report of the Commission. I would like to voice  satisfaction on behalf, surely, of other delegations, and express sincere thanks for the energy, patience and good  management of the discussions and the contributions put forward in the course of this session. Thank you very much.
11.1 The President:   Thank you very much, dear colleague. Other colleagues? I detect a general tendency to be satisfied with the  reports, which gives me much pleasure. I will not push people to intervene. They have to judge for themselves if they  need to take the floor. If they feel that they do not need to, it means that the report is by and large satisfactory.
11.2 As I see no more colleagues wishing to intervene, I would like to propose to the General Conference that it  approve the report of the Social and Human Sciences Commission, and adopt, in principle, the draft resolutions  contained in the document 34 C/81. Are there any objections? There do not seem to be. In that case, I declare the report  approved.