1. The President:   Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Please come into the hall so we can begin our eighth plenary meeting.  We should all continue to recognize that the speakers for this afternoon have been already told about the time limits for  their interventions, which still remains at six minutes per speaker, and I urge honourable colleagues to respect this  necessary time limit in order for us to complete our work on time. Again, do not worry about the music; in fact it should  give you inspiration, so I do not think it should be a hindrance to what you are planning to do. So now we can begin, and  I would like to call the first speaker for this afternoon, His Excellency Mr Nikoloz Rurua, Minister of Culture, Heritage and  Sports of Georgia. I give him the floor.
2.1 Mr Rurua (Georgia):  Mr President of the General Conference, Mr Director-General, distinguished delegates of UNESCO, first of all let  me begin my address by congratulating the new president of the General Conference, Mr Hepburn, on his election and  wish him success in his special task. Georgia expresses support for the reforms UNESCO has already carried out under  the leadership of Director-General Koïchiro Matsuura to serve the global community with maximum competence,  transparency and effectiveness. On behalf of my country, I would like to express my congratulations to Ms Irina Bokova  on her nomination to the position of Director-General. I am confident that under her wise direction the Organization will  become even more active in fostering international cooperation and in enhancing UNESCO’s global relevance in the face  of contemporary global challenges.
2.2 The current financial and economic crisis poses new challenges for UNESCO, but at the same time gives us the  opportunity to more precisely prioritize the Organization's programmes and activities in order to effectively address the  issues related to poverty reduction, sustainable development and dialogue between civilizations. We support the  priorities of the 2010-2011 culture programme, namely safeguarding the tangible and intangible cultural heritage and  promoting the diversity of cultural expressions and a dialogue of cultures. In this regard let me say that last year Georgia  ratified two UNESCO conventions, namely the Convention on the Protection and Promotion of the Diversity of Cultural  Expressions, and the Convention for the Safeguarding of the Intangible Cultural Heritage. These international normative  instruments provide solid bases for the promotion of cultural diversity and the safeguarding of the intangible cultural  heritage worldwide, issues to which my country has always been particularly committed. Since 1992, Georgia has been a  State Party to UNESCO’s World Heritage Convention. The Government of Georgia fully acknowledges its obligations  under the Convention and consolidates efforts at the national level to give implementation the highest priority at the  policy and administration levels.
2.3 We envisage attaining quality education for all (EFA) as a central factor for promoting sustainable development,  democracy and dialogue among nations, and express our commitment to the UNESCO education programme.
2.4 Such significant dates as the 20th anniversary of democratic change in Central and Eastern Europe and the
60th anniversary of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, celebrated last year, remind us once again of the need to  foster multilateral efforts to ensure better protection of press freedoms and freedom of speech. My country, on its path to  sustainable democratic transformation, places the greatest importance on these very issues and expresses its support  for the priorities of the communication and information programme activities. At the same time, we deem it essential to  enhance the Organization's monitoring role in human rights, press freedoms and freedom of speech. Unfortunately, even  today, 20 years after the beginning of democratic change in Europe, there are still places on the European continent  where human rights activists and journalists are murdered and kidnapped, where fear and intimidation prevail over  fundamental human rights and freedoms, and where state authorities fail to duly investigate and prosecute the  perpetrators. I believe that there is a need to enhance UNESCO’s relevance in conflict and post-conflict situations in  order to better ensure the protection of human rights, especially people’s right to education in their mother tongues and  the preservation of their cultural heritage. As a result of the August 2008 Russian invasion and subsequent occupation of  Georgian territories, which continues even today, cultural heritage in these areas are not under the effective control of  the Georgian authorities and have been subjected to systematic destruction. A number of monuments in and around  Tskhinvali, the regional capital of South Ossetia, have been heavily damaged during the Russian-Georgian war. A  precise survey of the damage has not been carried out to date, as neither Georgian nor international experts have the  opportunity to access the area and assess the situation on the ground. We are consistently receiving alarming  information on the facts of an ongoing policy of pillage, destruction and disrespect by the occupying forces towards  Georgian religious and cultural heritage. The facts about the damage to the cultural heritage, in many cases intentional,  have been observed for years in Tskhinvali/South Ossetia and Abkhazia. We have on numerous occasions called upon  UNESCO to provide expertise and assistance to conduct an inventory and assessment of the unique cultural heritage  objects. Unfortunately, no such UNESCO mission has been conducted in my country since 1997, and today, after the  Russian occupation, the issue of safeguarding cultural sites has become even more critical. As a State Party to the 1954  Hague Convention, we once again renew our appeal to UNESCO to be more active in this regard and to plan an expert  mission to Georgia’s occupied territories. Otherwise, we will further expose those sites and monuments to the risk of  being deliberately obliterated to justify forced demographic changes.
2.5 Every two years we gather here at the Headquarters of the Organization – which was created to build the  defences of peace in the minds of human beings against the concept of war and confrontation – to discuss how to make  this interdependent world better and how to defend the principles enshrined in UNESCO’s Constitution. Two years ago,  the head of the Georgian delegation spoke from this very platform about the promotion of the principles and values of  peace and tolerance among young people in the Tskhinvali region who had had the opportunity to join the UNESCO  Associated Schools Project Network (ASPnet). Today I should inform you the two schools which had the privilege to be  engaged in the network do not exist any more. Last August they were bombed and burned down during air raids and  ground attacks. Today, all the pupils and teachers from those schools, along with the other 30,000 residents of the region,  are internally displaced persons. I hope that we, as a community of responsible nations, will not tolerate such facts and  will work together to promote peace, tolerance, democracy and respect for human rights. Thank you very much.
3. Le Président :   I thank you very much, Sir, for your remarks. Et maintenant, je donne la parole à Son Excellence M. Olsen Jean  Julien, Ministre de la culture et de la communication d’Haïti. Vous avez la parole, Monsieur.
4.1 M. Julien (Haïti) :   Monsieur le Président, Excellences, Mesdames et Messieurs, je voudrais tout d'abord féliciter M. Koïchiro  Matsuura pour le travail qu’il a réalisé pendant ces dix ans au service de l'UNESCO en qualité de Directeur général. Je  salue également Mme l'Ambassadrice Irina Bokova pour sa désignation au poste de Directeur général de l'Organisation.
4.2 Mesdames et Messieurs, aujourd'hui plus que jamais, l'éducation a besoin de recouvrer son sens étymologique :  ex ducere, conduire vers l'extérieur, conduire vers l'autre. C'est bien là la signification profonde sur laquelle sont fondées  les sciences de l'éducation. L'éducation, dans ce sens étymologique, est à la base d'une humanité fondée sur  l'interaction avec l'autre. « Au commencement était la relation », écrivait Levinas.
4.3 Mesdames et Messieurs, à un moment où l'humanité expérimente de puissantes technologies de l'information et  de la communication, un pan entier du genre humain n'a pas accès à l'écriture. Un obstacle majeur qui interdit l'accès  aux autres. Il y a en effet environ 776 millions d'analphabètes adultes dans le monde, auxquels s'ajoutent des centaines  de millions d'enfants non scolarisés. Au moins un être humain sur cinq n'a pas accès à l'espace éducatif. En Haïti, ce  rapport est de trois sur cinq. Dans son avant-propos au septième Rapport mondial de suivi sur l'Éducation pour tous, le  Directeur général de l'UNESCO, M. Matsuura, a repris le constat selon lequel « des disparités profondes et persistantes  fondées sur la richesse, le sexe, le lieu de résidence, l'appartenance ethnique et autres marqueurs du désavantage  constituent un obstacle majeur au progrès dans le domaine éducatif ». Avec l'appui de l'UNESCO, Haïti a fait des  progrès notables dans la réalisation des objectifs de l'EPT. Déjà, en 1998, le pays a produit un Plan national pour  l'éducation et la formation et a défini les grands axes des réformes institutionnelles à opérer. Mais l'exacerbation des  tensions sociales et politiques d'une part, et d'autre part les catastrophes naturelles survenues entre 2003 et 2006, ont  handicapé les efforts de mise en œuvre dudit plan. Une stratégie nationale d'Éducation pour tous a été développée en  mai 2007 à l'initiative du Ministère de l'éducation nationale et de la formation professionnelle. En avril 2008, Haïti a été  admise à bénéficier de l'Initiative de mise en œuvre accélérée de l’EPT. En septembre 2007, le Gouvernement haïtien a  lancé une campagne visant à alphabétiser trois millions de personnes entre 2008 et 2011.
4.4 Cependant, un obstacle a persisté, un obstacle majeur, il s'agit du manque d'articulation entre le programme  d'Éducation pour tous et la politique du secteur culturel. Comment, en effet, conduire à l'extérieur ou conduire à l'autre,  sans prendre en considération la culture. L'éducation reste très superficielle si elle ne prend en compte les valeurs  associées au patrimoine culturel. Conscient de cette réalité, le Ministère de la culture et de la communication a lancé un  programme d'éducation culturelle et artistique. Nous commençons à construire des espaces de culture, de lecture et  d'animation (ECLA) dans les écoles publiques du pays. Ce sont des bibliothèques et des espaces de scène qui ouvrent  l'école sur la communauté d'une part, et qui conduisent la communauté vers l'école d'autre part. Des jeunes non  scolarisés ou ayant abandonné les salles de classe ont recommencé à fréquenter les espaces scolaires à travers l'art et  la culture. En Haïti, l'implantation d'ECLA dans les écoles publiques est en train de faire recouvrer à l'éducation son sens  profond, en l'occurrence sortir de soi, créant ainsi une humanité nouvelle à travers l'interaction avec l'autre. Au Ministère  de la culture, nous nous efforçons de rechercher la coopération d'autres pays pour enrichir et généraliser ce programme,  que nous devons implanter dans 250 écoles à travers le pays. Par le biais de ce programme, nous avons l'honneur de  proposer aux États membres de mettre en rapport les programmes d'Éducation pour tous et l'éducation culturelle et  artistique dans leur pays. Nous avons la conviction que plus l'articulation entre les Ministères de la culture et de  l'éducation est forte, plus les résultats seront bons.
4.5 Plus largement, le gouvernement s'est fixé comme objectif de faire de la culture et de la communication des  vecteurs fondamentaux du développement économique et social. Mesdames et Messieurs, nous nous réjouissons  d'informer les États membres de l'Organisation que grâce à un plaidoyer en ce sens du Ministère de la culture, Haïti a  ratifié la Convention pour la sauvegarde du patrimoine culturel immatériel et la Convention sur la protection du  patrimoine culturel subaquatique. Par ailleurs, le 11 septembre dernier, le Conseil exécutif a pris, au cours de sa
182e session, l'importante décision de renforcer la coopération entre l'UNESCO et Haïti.
4.6 Mesdames et Messieurs, au moment où j’achevais la préparation de cette allocution, j'ai été mis au courant  d'une nouvelle expédition archéologique illégale en cours en Haïti. Cette fouille illégale est la dernière en date d'une  longue série portant sur les grottes, les gouffres, les édifices et sites historiques, les plages et le front de mer du pays. Je  viens de demander à la police d'arrêter l'opération, mais je saisis l'occasion qui m’est donnée pour lancer ici, devant la  Conférence générale, un cri d'alarme, un cri de douleur d'Haïti, afin que soit mise en place une mission urgente visant à  la documentation, au classement, à la protection et à la gestion du patrimoine archéologique du pays, en danger face à  la piraterie moderne. Merci.
(5) The President (translation from the Spanish):   Je vous remercie, Monsieur le Ministre, pour votre allocution. The next speaker on the list is Her Excellency,  Ms Mónica Jiménez, Minister of Education of Chile. Madam, you have the floor.
(6.1) Ms Jiménez (Chile) (translation from the Spanish):   Mr Director-General, Mr President of the General Conference, ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to represent  the Government of President Michelle Bachelet at this General Conference. Our country recognizes and supports the  tremendous work achieved by UNESCO in building peace and a society committed to sustainable development and human  rights.
(6.2) Mr President, UNESCO was established 64 years ago in the devastating wake of World War II in order to combat  violence and to promote peace, human rights, education, science and culture. Today, in the midst of the most violent financial  and economic crisis in recent times, UNESCO faces the great challenge of uniting wills to build a more equitable society, to  promote respect for human rights and to protect the environment through its intersectoral and multidisciplinary approach. This  is the perspective from which we must analyse the Programme and Budget for the next biennium. To have a fairer society, we  must renew our commitment to Africa, continue to advance the Gender Equality Action Plan, foster opportunities for young  people and lay the ethical groundwork for sustainable development. The complex, globalized world in which we live requires  us to work together. To do so, we must have multilateral organizations that can reach their objectives in an effective and  appropriate way. Chile firmly believes in the urgent need to further the process of reform of the United Nations system and we  appreciate the efforts that UNESCO has been making to contribute to this process by strengthening its action in the field,  where it is most needed and relevant.
(6.3) Mr President, we are convinced that lifelong, inclusive and quality education for all is the fundamental pillar of a more  just society and stable and lasting peace. With legitimate pride, Chile can boast of having achieved the great Millennium Goal.  All Chilean children are enrolled at school, with access to free primary and secondary schooling, including two years of nursery  school and 12 years of compulsory education. Women are fully integrated and their performance is usually better than those of  their male counterparts. Given this progress, we plan for higher education. Today, seven out of ten young people in higher  education are the first generation of their families to reach such a level of education. Yet, despite all we have achieved, we are  not satisfied with the quality of our education. There are still significant differences in the academic results of pupils from  different socio-economic strata. We know, Mr President, that to attain better academic achievement, inequalities must be  tackled from early childhood. To this end, we have established the Chile Crece Contigo (Chile Grows with You) programme, a  comprehensive protection system beginning in infancy that meets the needs of every stage of early childhood, from gestation  to the age of four years. We have established regulations and standards to ensure quality. We have also created a system  whereby we earmark additional public funds for establishments that educate schoolchildren in vulnerable situations. Moreover,  we are concerned about developing excellence and leadership in teachers. For two decades, Chile has placed education at  the centre of its development strategy and has allocated more and more resources to improve the quality of education. This  year, in the midst of the crisis, we have once again increased the public budget for education, which has reached 4.6 % of  GDP.
(6.4) Mr President, we believe in the benefits of cooperation and the strengthening of dialogue among countries with  similar levels of development, which is why we hope that the South-South Cooperation Programme/Fund for Education will  bear fruit. For the same reason, we are participating in the Regional Education Project for Latin America and the Caribbean  (PRELAC). Our region must take the leap from equal access to education to excellent quality of learning.
(6.5) We would like to reiterate our support for UNESCO capacity-building in the sciences. We are pleased that UNESCO,  in its particular capacity, is involved in efforts being made by the international community to meet the formidable challenges  posed by climate change. In particular, we would like to highlight the work of the UNESCO Intergovernmental Oceanographic  Commission in ocean resource management, the safeguarding of coastal areas, early warning of natural disasters and  mitigation of their effects.
(6.6) Our country values UNESCO’s action with regard to cultural development policies, the safeguarding of heritage and  the diversity of cultural identities.
(6.7) Mr President, we would like to express our gratitude to the Director-General for his invaluable support during very  important moments for our country. During his visit to Valparaíso, on the eve of its inclusion in the World Heritage List, and  during his recent visit to Easter Island, we were able to appreciate his special sensibility. Thank you very much, Mr President.
7. The President:   Muchas gracias, señora, por su declaración. The next speaker on my list is His Excellency Mr Theodor  Paleolugu, Minister of Culture, Religious Affairs and National Heritage of Romania. I give you the floor, Sir.
8.1 M. Paleolugu (Roumanie) :   Monsieur le Président, Excellences, Mesdames et Messieurs, ce matin, nous avons appris une bonne nouvelle,  à savoir que le Président des États-Unis, M. Barack Obama, avait obtenu le prix Nobel de la paix. Il se trouve que moi- même, j'ai reçu hier, ou plutôt, nous Roumains et Allemands également, avons reçu une bonne nouvelle : une  compatriote était lauréate du prix Nobel de littérature. Je dis bien, nous, Allemands et Roumains, puisque c'est une  Allemande de Roumanie qui a reçu ce prix Nobel, une représentante de la minorité allemande de Roumanie. En fait,  cela sert tout à fait mon propos, qui est d’insister sur l'importance des minorités, la grande fertilité des minorités dans le  monde entier, et bien évidemment dans notre coin d'Europe, dans notre pays, celui-ci étant, je risque cette définition, un  pays de diversité, de différences, comme c’est le cas d'ailleurs de la région d'Europe centrale et orientale.
8.2 La lauréate est donc une Allemande de Roumanie, et cela illustre mon propos sur l'importance des transferts  culturels dans le monde d'aujourd'hui, un monde globalisé où le transfert culturel devient en fait l'enjeu primordial, dirais- je, ou l'un des enjeux primordiaux de la diplomatie. Et l'UNESCO, en tant qu'institution diplomatique, est évidemment  l'instrument par excellence des transferts culturels nécessaires dans le monde globalisé dans lequel nous vivons.
8.3 Dans le même registre, face à la globalisation, je pense que nous avons besoin d’une réflexion sur la relation  entre enracinement et déracinement. Nous sommes tous, d'une manière ou d'une autre, déracinés, en ce sens que nous  étudions dans divers pays, nous voyageons, nous sommes exposés aux flux des idées sur le plan international. Mais,  parallèlement, la globalisation, la circulation des idées et notre destin personnel de migrant font que nous avons aussi  besoin d'un enracinement. Et, de ce point de vue, je tiens à dire à quel point la politique du patrimoine est importante.  D'ailleurs, dans l'intitulé de mon ministère, il y a aussi le mot « patrimoine ». Cela reflète bien l’idée que dans un monde  ouvert, globalisé, nous avons justement besoin d'investir, je dis bien d’investir, dans ce qui fait notre identité, et de  consolider un patrimoine qui, évidemment peut être en concurrence avec les besoins de développement. Souvent, dans  les pays qui ont une forte croissance, comme ce fut le cas en Europe de l'Est ces dernières années, il y a évidemment  une tension entre le développement immobilier par exemple, et la nécessaire défense de nos villes, de leur dimension
176  historique et de leur identité propre. La politique du patrimoine devient donc, autant que le transfert culturel, une urgence,  un impératif de notre époque.
8.4 En dernier lieu, last but not least, je soulignerai l'importance des universités dans ce monde ouvert,  interconnecté. Nous avons, dans cette optique, accueilli au mois de mai la conférence sur l'enseignement universitaire.  Effectivement, dans le monde qui est le nôtre, le réseau universitaire international devient un enjeu très important.
8.5 Pour résumer en conclusion mon propos,  (L’orateur poursuit en anglais)
8.6 I will just say also, for the English speakers, that in a globalized world we have, as far as we can see, three  major priorities: what I call “cultural transfers”, meaning the mediation between cultures and indigenous peoples, and  UNESCO’s instrument for that; investment in heritage and the need to preserve roots; and open academic networks as a  means of managing this open intellectual work. Thank you very much for your attention.
9. The President:  Merci beaucoup, Monsieur le Ministre, pour votre présentation. And now, ladies and gentlemen, I am pleased to  invite His Excellency Mr Carl Bethel, Minister of Education of the Commonwealth of the Bahamas, to take the floor. You  have the floor, Sir.
10.1 Mr Bethel (Bahamas):   Mr President of the General Conference, Mr Chair of the Executive Board, Mr Director-General, Excellencies,  ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon. It is a profound honour to be here with you today and to reaffirm the commitment  of the Government and the people of the Commonwealth of the Bahamas to the high and enduring principles of  UNESCO. At the outset, I wish to salute our departing Director-General, Mr Koïchiro Matsuura, for his distinguished  service, which has now better positioned UNESCO to translate its founding ideals into viable policies, programmes and  activities aimed at improving the lives of many of our brothers and sisters throughout this world. I also take this  opportunity to congratulate Madam Irina Bokova on her imminent historic inauguration as the Director-General of this  indispensable Organization, and I pledge the continued support of my country for efforts to advance its work. Ladies and  gentlemen, you will no doubt appreciate how exceptionally delighted I am to be able to join you in welcoming our new  President to this 35th session of the General Conference of UNESCO, Mr Davidson Hepburn, an illustrious son of the  Bahamas and an esteemed citizen of the world of whom we are all deeply proud. Speaking on behalf of my Government  and the people of the Commonwealth of the Bahamas, I extend sincere thanks to each and every one of you for electing  him to this most important office, which is a landmark event in the history of our country, the Bahamas, for small island  developing States and for the Caribbean region; and it bodes well for UNESCO.
10.2 Mr President, for many years the Government of the Bahamas has been keenly aware that progress, prosperity  and peace in our society depend largely on consistent and robust investment in individual intelligence, and in educating  and fostering the collective talents of our people. At the core of our actions is the provision of free access to quality  education for all. This arises from our belief that quality education is the pathway to the fullest development of human  potential, and that an informed and engaged citizenry is essential for the preservation and expansion of democratic  ideals in a society equipped to make a worthwhile and lasting contribution to our common human patrimony. I am  therefore happy to report that our investment in quality education for all within our shores is reaping positive returns. Our  gross enrolment ratio approaches 100% at the primary school level and 94% overall, and a good proportion of our  students are benefiting significantly from the education provided. We realize, however, that there is much more work to  be done and that far too many of our young people remain on the margins of the educational process. Mr President, as a  means of ensuring better outcomes in the field of education, we are embarking upon a reform initiative based on a ten- year plan for education that is presently the subject of wide public consultations. This plan will establish priority areas  including curriculum revision, ongoing teacher training, administrative reform, the expansion of early childhood education  and the further development of technical and vocational education, which will facilitate the transition of our students from  school to the workplace or to higher education and training. Central to the process of any reform is the greater and highly  desired participation of parents and the wider community in the education process. Teachers, while playing a crucial role  in moulding the lives of children cannot be an equal substitute for parents. In the same way, neither can the classroom in  any way replace the home. While our ten-year plan goes through its evolutionary phases, we have instituted policies to  more effectively meet the growing demand for tertiary-level education in the Bahamas. The Government of the Bahamas  has substantially increased the number of scholarships and grants for higher education abroad and at the College of the  Bahamas, which is progressively moving towards being a University of the Bahamas.
10.3 Mr President, this presentation has focused on education. It is only because of the exigencies of time that I must  not give as much attention to culture as I would wish, but we are deeply sensitive to the importance of culture and its  relevance to education as well as information and communication technology. Let me take this opportunity, Mr President,  also to commend the Director-General of the Caribbean regional cluster office, Mr Kwame Boafo, and his hard-working  staff, who have helped us develop strategies to reduce violence among youth, to end discrimination against persons  living with HIV and AIDS, to assist in strengthening our National Commissions, and to promote youth entrepreneurship.  Mr President, in closing allow me to recall our solemn obligation to use every means at our disposal to create a world  where we all have the opportunity to experience life to the fullest and happiness to the utmost. Thank you for your kind  attention.
11. The President:   Thank you very much, Minister Bethel, for your statement and for the kind words you directed towards me. The  next speaker on our list is His Excellency Mr James Marape, Minister of Education of Papua New Guinea. You have the  floor, Sir.
12.1 Mr Marape (Papua New Guinea):  Mr President, Mr Director-General, Your Excellencies, distinguished delegates, ladies and gentlemen, in the  name of Lord Jesus Christ, I bring warm greetings from the Government and people of Papua New Guinea. Mr President,  we join other countries in congratulating you on your election as President of the 35th session of the General Conference  of UNESCO. We express our gratitude to Mr Koïchiro  Matsuura for his distinguished leadership as Director-General for  the last ten years. We also join other distinguished delegates in congratulating the Director-General elect on her  nomination and we look forward to working closely with her in promoting and pursuing UNESCO's mandate.
12.2 Mr President, Papua New Guinea and her six million people speak one third of the world's languages, 850 in all,  which augments unity in a diversity of cultures.
12.3 Papua New Guinea has 7% of the world's biodiversity, with its second largest virgin rainforest and coral reefs  and atolls mostly untouched by the pressures of modern development. These virgin ecosystems remain habitats to  endemic species of flora and fauna. Mr President, we commend UNSECO’s World Heritage Committee for approving the  inscription of the Kuk heritage site where, according to Wikipedia, “agriculture was independently developed in the New  Guinea highlands around 7000 B.C., making it one of the areas of original plant domestication in the world”. These facts,  Mr President, affirm Papua New Guinea’s potential to contribute to UNESCO's mandate in education, science and  culture. UNESCO has been an integral partner in Papua New Guinea’s quest for development since 1976. The  Government of Papua New Guinea values the work of UNESCO. It has therefore granted full autonomy status to its  National Commission, with increased funding, human resources and other support. Whilst Papua New Guinea recently  celebrated 34 years of consistent democracy and nationhood, we are also mindful of the many development issues that  we have still to address. We acknowledge the timely visit to Papua New Guinea in 2008 by the outgoing Director-General  which consolidated development activities we were pursuing with UNESCO, such as the Literacy Initiative for  Empowerment (LIFE). We value UNESCO’s effort in ensuring that our country’s literacy programme is expanded. The  communication programmes that we have embarked upon in partnership with UNESCO must continue because they  bring the latest world standards and innovations to people, schools and communities cut off from others by harsh  topography and vast expanses of ocean between islands and atolls.
12.4 In education, Mr President we continue to promote the Dakar Framework goals. The Papua New Guinea  Government has given high priority to the education sector in order to accelerate progress towards education for all (EFA)  by 2015. The implementation of a universal basic education plan, Mr President, will have implications for secondary, and  technical and vocational education. Papua New Guinea will need help to expand, improve and strengthen technical and  vocational education to cater for the needs of the anticipated large number of school leavers. It is in this respect, and in  pursuit of our aim of promoting education for sustainable development that we request UNESCO's support.
12.5 Mr President, we value the 2003 Convention for the Safeguarding of the Intangible Cultural Heritage and we call  for UNESCO’s continued intervention because Papua New Guinea has one third of the world’s known languages and  cultures. Our rich, diverse, cultural heritage is the source of our strength and nationhood, and a laboratory of knowledge  for the world, and we call on UNESCO to help us preserve these valuables.
12.6 Mr President, the Government and people of Papua New Guinea sympathize with the countries devastated by  natural disasters, in particular the latest victims of the tsunamis in Samoa and Tonga and the earthquakes in Indonesia.  Papua New Guinea continues to have its share of natural disasters. For instance, some small Papua New Guinea  islands like the Carteret Islands are already experiencing the effects of climate change and are losing arable lands.  Mr President, we thank UNESCO for the financial assistance given to Papua New Guinea to rebuild and resettle victims.  We applaud UNESCO’s quick action to establish programmes relating to warning systems and disaster preparedness,  and request that these be further strengthened. However, Mr President, recovery programmes in the aftermath of  disasters will not justify our lack of commitment to key global issues like climate change. It is morally wrong for the  development ambitions of the few to sabotage the heritage of the majority, especially the small island States.  Mr President, my Prime Minister, the Right Honourable Grand Chief Sir Micheal T Somare, is a global champion and  lead voice on world climate change issues and, on behalf of many small island developing States, I take this forum to call  attention to UNESCO’s role in ensuring that environmental issues are given relevant emphasis in the light of the  forthcoming Copenhagen Conference. This 35th session of the General Conference must be resolute, in the clearest  terms, about our “One UNESCO” family’s commitment to addressing the challenges of climate change.
12.7 Mr President, the fundamental human right is for all of us to coexist in peace and harmony, with each other and  with nature. Establishing that balance and harmony is our moral obligation. Therefore, we recognize and support  UNESCO’s advocacy for the advancement of a culture of peace and tolerance and sustainable development for all. We  reaffirm and renew our pledge to support and actively participate in promoting the UNESCO programmes and activities  proposed for the next biennium. Thank you all for your attention and may God Almighty bless us all.
13. The President:   Thank you very much, Minister, for your statement. And now I am pleased to give the floor to His Excellency  Mr Andrey Foursenko, Minister of Education and Sciences of the Russian Federation.
(14.1) Mr Foursenko (Russian Federation) (translation from the Russian):   Esteemed President of the General Conference, Excellencies, ladies and gentlemen. In speaking about UNESCO’s  key tasks, I will begin with the priority line of emphasis in the Organization’s work: education. Russia considers UNESCO’s role  in coordinating international efforts in relation to the Education for All (EFA) programme to be historic. This programme has
179  united the world in accomplishing most important tasks. In this connection, I call upon the Member States and international  organizations to make their contribution to preparation of the World Conference on Early Childhood Care and Education, which  will be held in Moscow in September 2010. We can and must, after evaluating at the Conference the progress made towards  the achievement of the first EFA goal, develop a strategy for our actions linked with the theme of the Conference, and we hope  for your active participation.
(14.2) Dear colleagues, among the tools of educational policy which we are studying, a special place in the development  and introduction of progressive educational practices worldwide belongs to the UNESCO Chairs. The International Conference  of UNESCO Chairs in Education on Sustainable Development, which was held at the end of September this year in Russia,  adopted the Khanty-Mansyisky Declaration containing an appeal for the networking of UNESCO Chairs on all key lines of  emphasis of the Organization’s action. In this connection, Russia proposes, in the context of implementing the road map of the  Lisbon Conference, to hold an international congress of UNESCO Chairs next year in the field of arts education as a vital area  for the raising of decent children with an all-round education.
(14.3) Dear colleagues, alongside education, the field of science is one in which the natural advantages of UNESCO are  most actively demonstrated. This concerns first of all those areas of science which have a clear humanitarian component. We  therefore support the multifaceted efforts of UNESCO in relation to the conservation and rational use of freshwater resources. I  should like to invite interested countries to take part in the international forum Clean Water to be held on 24 and 25 November  in Moscow with UNESCO support. I should also like to mention the great importance of the Intergovernmental Oceanographic  Commission which will mark its 50th anniversary next year. This Commission’s role is particularly significant in that it is directly  connected with research and action to combat global climate change. At the same time, the other scientific programmes  remain an inalienable part of the Organization’s mandate, including the International Basic Sciences Programme, whose  potential is far from being completely revealed. We consider that it would have much to gain if its status was raised to that of  being intergovernmental.
(14.4) I should also like to draw attention to and appeal for support for the UNESCO satellite science education project, in  relation to which it is planned to finance the launch and technical support almost entirely from extrabudgetary resources. We  have submitted a corresponding resolution to the General Conference and call on Member States to support it.
(14.5) We rate highly UNESCO’s action in the social and human sciences, a role which is constantly expanding. In this  connection, we are confident that the high-level group on interfaith dialogue which is being established in Russia in partnership  with UNESCO will demonstrate its effectiveness and make a substantive contribution to the International Year for the  Rapprochement of Cultures proposed by UNESCO for 2010.
(14.6) A decision is to be taken at this 35th session concerning the establishment in Moscow of a regional museum centre  under UNESCO auspices and the signature of the corresponding agreement between the Government of the Russian  Federation and UNESCO.
(14.7) In the area of communication and information we consider that it is expedient to expand such key UNESCO projects  as the International Programme for the Development of Communication and the UNESCO Information for All Programme. I  should like to say that Russia, as one of the Programme’s major donors, has already supported more than 80 regional national  projects, in particular in Kazakhstan, Uzbekistan and Kyrgyzstan.
(14.8) Dear colleagues, it is important for UNESCO to step up efforts to fulfil its unique mandate to achieve the intellectual  and moral solidarity of humanity. We regret that politicized questions sowing division between the Member States have been  inserted in the agenda of an Organization which is called upon to build peace in the minds of men. This relates to the attempt  to elaborate at UNESCO a draft of a declaration of principles relating to cultural objects displaced in connection with the  Second World War. Documents of this sort should be adopted solely by consensus and we appeal to all participants in the  General Conference to find by joint efforts a solution which will not create conflicts between States participating in the work.
(14.9) In concluding, I should like to use this opportunity to thank Mr Koïchiro Matsuura for his huge contribution to the  development of UNESCO and his work for peace; and also to voice the hope that the Director-General-elect, with the support  of all Member States, will be able to find a solution to the problems facing UNESCO today, with a view to fulfilling its  constitutional objectives. The Russian Federation stands ready for such cooperation. Thank you for your attention.
15. The President:   I thank you very much, Minister, for your statement. I now call on His Excellency Mr Michel  Menga  M’Essone,  Minister of Education and Civic Education of Gabon. Vous avez la parole, Monsieur.
16.1 M. Menga M’Essone (Gabon) :   Monsieur le Président de la Conférence générale, Monsieur le Président du Conseil exécutif, Mesdames et  Messieurs les chefs de délégation, Honorables délégués, Mesdames et Messieurs, c'est un honneur pour moi, Monsieur  le Président de la Conférence générale, de prendre la parole à l'occasion de la 35e session de la Conférence générale  de l'UNESCO. Permettez-moi tout d'abord de vous adresser mes vives félicitations pour votre brillante élection à ce  poste. Je voudrais également saisir cette occasion pour féliciter Mme Irina Bokova pour sa désignation au poste de  Directeur général de notre prestigieuse institution. Monsieur le Président du Conseil exécutif, au nom de la République  gabonaise, je vous adresse mes sincères félicitations, ainsi que celles de toute la délégation qui m'accompagne, pour le  travail abattu au cours de ces dernières années. À M. Koïchiro Matsuura, Directeur général sortant, je voudrais exprimer  la profonde gratitude du Gabon pour son dynamisme dans la réalisation des programmes de l'UNESCO, en particulier  Priorité Afrique, et ses combats en faveur de la Convention sur la protection et la promotion de la diversité culturelle et la  Convention pour la sauvegarde du patrimoine culturel immatériel, notamment dans le cadre de la quatrième session du  Comité de sauvegarde du patrimoine culturel immatériel, dont vous avez clôturé dernièrement les travaux de la  quatrième session à Abou Dhabi, aux Émirats Arabes Unis.
16.2 Monsieur le Président, Distingués délégués, le Gabon adhère au Projet de programme et de budget pour  l’exercice 2010-2011 et encourage l'UNESCO à mettre en œuvre la Stratégie à moyen terme 2008-2013, s’agissant  notamment de la priorité accordée à l'Afrique et à la réalisation des Objectifs du Millénaire pour le développement. En  effet, une éducation de qualité, l'égalité entre les sexes, la diversité culturelle, le dialogue entre les peuples et les
180  religions, la mobilisation des savoirs et des sciences en vue du développement durable constituent autant d'urgences  pour nos pays et notre continent. En matière d'éducation, le Gabon, qui s'efforce d'atteindre les objectifs de l’EPT d'ici
2015, a entrepris d’améliorer les conditions d'accès à une éducation de qualité grâce à l'augmentation de l'offre de  structures d'accueil aux niveaux primaire, secondaire, supérieur, technique et professionnel, un accès équitable pour la  petite enfance, surtout en zone rurale, la multiplication des centres d'alphabétisation avec l’implication des ONG, et la  professionnalisation des enseignements au moyen du système LMD. L'appui de l'UNESCO est vivement sollicité pour  soutenir le Gabon dans le renforcement des capacités.
16.3 Distingués délégués, le Gabon soutient l'UNESCO dans la mise en œuvre d'une éducation au développement  durable et sollicite son appui pour des actions d'information et de sensibilisation qui demeurent la meilleure arme pour  favoriser l’harmonie entre le citoyen et l'environnement. Le Gabon a donc mis en place dans le domaine des sciences  sociales et humaines, avec l'appui de l'Union européenne, le Comité national d'éthique. Il se félicite de l'accord signé  récemment avec l'UNESCO dans le cadre de l'assistance aux comités de bioéthique et du renforcement de ces derniers.
16.4 Monsieur le Président, à la suite de l'expiration du mandat de notre pays au Conseil international de  coordination du programme MAB, lors de la 21e session du Conseil tenue à Jeju (République de Corée), et à la veille du  Sommet de Copenhague de décembre 2009, nous remercions les pays membres qui nous ont accordé leur confiance.  En notre nouvelle capacité d'observateur, nous ne ménagerons aucun effort pour la réussite du Plan d'action de Madrid  pour les réserves de biosphère 2008-2013 et pour la mise en place d'un sous-groupe afriMAB bénéficiant déjà de  l'assistance du Secrétariat UNESCO-MAB au sein du groupe africain de l'UNESCO, contribuant ainsi à la lutte contre le  réchauffement climatique. Nous exhortons la Conférence générale à ajuster les ressources budgétaires allouées à ces  programmes de l'UNESCO, compte tenu des défis qu’ils devront relever au cours de l’exercice 2010-2011. Car le Gabon  fait partie du nombre encore restreint de pays où les parcs nationaux (au nombre de 13), occupent plus de 10 % du  territoire national, couvert aux trois quarts par la forêt équatoriale. C’est là sa contribution au massif forestier du bassin  du Congo qui, avec les massifs forestiers d'Amazonie et d'Asie du Sud-Est, constituent le poumon de l'humanité. Le  Gabon apprécie hautement la signature à Jeju, le 28 mai 2009, d'un accord créant le Réseau de coopération Sud-Sud  pour le développement durable dans les trois grandes régions tropicales humides du monde. De même, nous exprimons  notre gratitude pour l'attribution d’une bourse MAB pour les jeunes scientifiques à l’un de nos compatriotes.
16.5 Mesdames et Messieurs, pour promouvoir les droits de l'homme, notre commission nationale fonctionne depuis
2008 conformément aux principes de Paris, qui recommandent la participation de la société civile. S’agissant de la lutte  contre la pauvreté, la discrimination et l'exclusion, le Gabon a élaboré la stratégie de croissance et de réduction de la  pauvreté, la stratégie nationale de développement de la statistique, mis en place un comité de pilotage sur la  diversification de son économie et développé un programme d'insertion des filles-mères en situation de précarité.
16.6 Tenant compte du rôle majeur de la culture, le Gabon accorde une attention particulière à la valorisation et à la  conservation du patrimoine à travers la promotion du site de Lopé-Okanda, inscrit sur la Liste du patrimoine mondial de  l'UNESCO, et la construction d'un vaste complexe culturel regroupant une maison de la culture, un musée et une  bibliothèque nationaux.
16.7 Dans les domaines de la communication et de l'information, en dépit des progrès réalisés, de nombreuses  inégalités persistent. À ce propos, le Gabon, qui soutient les efforts consentis par l'Organisation pour favoriser l'accès  universel à l'information et au savoir, vient de mettre en place un portail de développement en ligne destiné à partager  les informations sur la situation économique du pays.
16.8 En cette période de crise financière, le Gabon, qui se réjouit de ce que le présent Projet de programme et de  budget ait un plafond à 653 millions de dollars, soit une augmentation de 22 millions, soutient ce projet afin d’encourager  l'UNESCO à renforcer son rôle de coordonnateur et à nouer des partenariats pour le maintien de la stabilité et de la paix  en faveur des générations futures. Je vous remercie.
17. The President :   Merci beaucoup, Monsieur le Ministre, pour votre déclaration. The next speaker on my list is His Excellency  Mr Andrew Fahie, Minister of Education and Culture of the British Virgin Islands. You have the floor, Sir.
18.1 Mr Fahie (British Virgin Islands):   Mr President, Mr Chair of the Executive Board, Mr Director-General, Excellencies, distinguished delegates,  ladies and gentlemen, I greet everyone with the peace of the great God of the universe. I bring you greetings from the  Government and people of the British Virgin Islands. I count it an honour to join you at UNESCO Headquarters and to  have the opportunity to reaffirm the British Virgin Islands’ commitment to the ideals of this vital and relevant Organization.  Mr President, permit me to congratulate you on your election to preside over the 35th session of the General Conference,  a responsibility, I am confident, that you will assume with honour and dignity. For over six decades, UNESCO has  promoted the highest standards in education, science, culture, communication and information. UNESCO has equally  fulfilled its mission of forging meaningful collaboration in these fields among its Member States and other stakeholders.  This mandate is clearly stipulated in the mission statement of the Medium-Term Strategy for 2008-2013, a document  which unmistakeably defines the strategic orientation of UNESCO. At this juncture, I humbly pay tribute to all those  visionaries who made UNESCO a reality and to those who remain true to its mission, spirit and ideals. It is in this spirit  that I commend the Director-General for his exemplary leadership as one who has transformed the ideas of UNESCO  into the living policies and programmes that are integral to today’s developing societies. On behalf of the Government of  the British Virgin Islands I would like to congratulate Ms Irina Bokova on her nomination as Director-General of UNESCO.  It would be remiss of me if I did not publicly thank the Bulgarian Government for their financial contributions to help  strengthen National Commissions in the Caribbean and its subregions, making it possible for the British Virgin Islands to  benefit from a visit by Secretaries-General from Jamaica and Saint Kitts and Nevis earlier this year. We all agree that
181  given the current global situation, we are compelled to increase our efforts to promote peace among all humankind in  order to establish an environment which fosters the development of its people and the society.
18.2 Mr President, the British Virgin Islands is an Associate Member State consisting of 60 islands, islets and cays.  The Government is dedicated to building a territory where all of its citizens are provided with opportunities to reach their  full potential. Access to quality education is a high priority area and the impetus with which we will promote equality and  opportunity for our people so that they can actively participate in, and contribute to, the development of our territory. That  is why we are continuously working towards quality education for all (EFA) by 2015, supported by the motto "moving  from good to great", which is central to achieving our goals and objectives. An area of concern is the offering of  knowledge and skills to those students passing through the education system but not performing adequately. In order to  help them develop the skills needed to enter the workforce, we have started to develop a technical-vocational  programme. However, we have experienced many challenges with this programme. We understand that our Government  needs a technical and vocational education policy for the territory, as well as to develop plans and programmes to  address this situation. We acknowledge that it is the knowledgeable and skilled citizens who will best make their way in  our rapidly developing, globalized world. Our provisions in technical and vocational education must not only meet the  needs of those students who require skills to ensure that they can be productive but must also target some of our best  students who tend to be attracted only to careers in medicine, law, accountancy, and so on. We understand that we need  to strike a balance in developing both skilled workers and citizens are able to acquire vocational skills to become  employable in a productive, competency-based work environment. We have noted with interest the model provided  through the esteemed UNESCO International Centre for Technical and Vocational Education and Training (UNEVOC),  which fulfils the United Nations mandate to promote peace, justice, equity, poverty alleviation and greater social cohesion.  We will be calling on UNESCO to assist the British Virgin Islands in training and in developing internationally recognized  educational policies and protocols so that we too remain relevant in the twenty-first century.
18.3 Culture is an important component of UNESCO’s work and we would like to see a strong emphasis placed on  areas such as promoting cultural exchanges, linking culture and education, and providing an integrated approach to the  preservation of cultural and natural heritage. Through a UNESCO-approved participation project, we are working towards  putting a cultural policy in place which will produce a framework for the territory for further cultural development. Given  our geographic location in a hurricane belt, we cannot escape the threats of natural hazards as well as the harmful  impacts of global warming and climate change, which we know may result in flooding and rising sea levels. However,  such projects as Youth Poverty Alleviation through Tourism and Heritage (“Youth PATH”), Small Islands Voice and  Sandwatch provide the catalyst for us to encourage our young people to take responsibility for the environment.  Mr President, the British Virgin Islands have benefited from our membership of, and association with, this august  Organization. We therefore pledge our commitment to ensure that every BVI resident remains a strong advocate for  UNESCO and its ideals. Mr President, I have no doubt that with the unwavering support of Member States, UNESCO will  continue to rise above the global challenges and will seize every opportunity to successfully fulfil its mandate for the  benefit of all humankind. I thank you.
19. The President:  Thank you very much, Minister, for your statement. I am now going to give the floor to His Excellency  Mr Alberto Romulo, Minister of Foreign Affairs of the Philippines.
(20.1) Mr Romulo (Philippines) (translation from the Spanish):   Mr President, Excellencies, we meet at a most historic moment for UNESCO. We are to elect the first woman, Her  Excellency Ms Irina Bokova, of Bulgaria, to the post of Director-General. And we have elected a President from a small island  developing State, His Excellency Mr Davidson Hepburn of the Bahamas. Allow me to express to you, Mr President, on behalf  of the Philippines, our sincerest congratulations. We have full confidence that under your able leadership, the General  Conference will achieve outstanding results.
(20.2) As we mark these momentous events, we cannot forget that we continue to face the effects of a global recession. In  this sombre economic environment, UNESCO must now, more than ever before in its 60 years of existence, fulfil its mandate  of building peace and security through education, science and culture within an effective system that embraces all nations.  This calls for strong partnership responsive to Member States’ urgent needs, which UNESCO can address within its special  areas of expertise. In this regard, we are pleased to announce that we signed today the first Philippines-UNESCO Country  Programming Document, which will serve as the overall framework for defining programmes to be supported by UNESCO.
182  (The speaker continues in English)
20.3 Mr President, at the centre of this is education. Together with UNESCO we have also finalized our education  support system. Achieving quality education for all by 2015 continues to be our goal. Integral to our response is our  proposal for the establishment of the Lifelong Learning Centre for Sustainable Development in South-East Asia the first  category 2 centre on education in South-East Asia; endorsed unanimously by the Executive Board. We now request the  General Conference to support this. Given our zero real growth budget, extrabudgetary funding for programmes in  education is absolutely critical.
20.4 Mr President, on 26 September Typhoon Ketsana battered Metro Manila with a month’s worth of rainfall in just a  few hours. With unprecedented flooding, communities were swamped, schools and public infrastructure destroyed,  homes swept away, and lives lost and ruined. Our Government is now focused on fully aiding the victims, and we thank  the international community for their invaluable support and assistance. Typhoon Ketsana and recent weather disasters  in Asia – in Indonesia, India, Viet Nam – and elsewhere underscore the urgent need for concerted global action on  climate change. United Nations Secretary-General, Ban Ki-moon, has called climate change “the most important issue of  our time”. We believe that UNESCO, with its programmes on disaster preparedness, mitigation and adaptation, capacity- building and sustainable development, is uniquely positioned to lead the way in our global effort to manage it. UNESCO  must rise to the challenge and show leadership in this regard. For the Copenhagen Conference to succeed, we need firm  commitments to reduce emissions from the concerned developed countries.
20.5 Mr President, next year, we celebrate the International Year for the Rapprochement of Cultures, which aims to  promote interfaith dialogue, with UNESCO as lead agency. The Philippines, which has actively called for greater  interreligious and intercultural dialogue, understanding and cooperation for peace, fully supports the initiative. For this  reason, the Philippines will host the first special Non-Aligned Movement Ministerial Meeting on Interfaith Dialogue and  Cooperation for Peace and Development in Manila from 1 to 3 December 2009. We are pleased to invite our President,  the Director-General, and all UNESCO Members to this meeting.
20.6 Mr President, UNESCO’s ability to attain its goals is determined by its financial and human resources. We  support the C/5 document and join the call for united efforts. Let me close by expressing our profound thanks and  congratulations to His Excellency Koïchiro Matsuura who, over the past ten years, has transformed UNESCO into the  credible and effective multilateral institution that it is today. It is now up to us to bring UNESCO into the future, to ensure  that it fulfils its constitutional mandate of building world peace. Led by the new Director-General, Her Excellency Irina  Bokova, the Philippines’ commitment as a nation remains stronger than ever in moving UNESCO forward to achieve its  noble vision. Thank you. Muchas gracias.  Ms Carballo Castegnaro (Costa Rica) takes the Chair.
21. The President:   Thank you, Your Excellency. Our next speaker is His Excellency Mr Messanvi Gbeassor, Minister of Higher  Education and Research of Togo.
22.1 M. Gbeassor (Togo) :   Monsieur le Président de la Conférence générale, Monsieur le Président du Conseil exécutif, Monsieur le  Directeur général de l’UNESCO, Excellences, Mesdames et Messieurs les chefs de délégation, Honorables délégués,  Mesdames et Messieurs, je voudrais tout d’abord m’acquitter d’un agréable devoir, celui de vous présenter, Monsieur le  Président, mes chaleureuses félicitations pour votre brillante élection à la présidence de notre présente session. Je  voudrais également remercier votre prédécesseur, M. Georges Anastassopoulos, pour sa précieuse contribution à la  consolidation des nobles idéaux de notre Organisation. Que M. Olabiyi Babalola Joseph Yaï, Président du Conseil  exécutif, et tous les membres du Conseil, trouvent ici toutes nos félicitations pour la qualité du travail accompli tout au  long de l’exercice biennal qui s’achève. Tous les hommages du Gouvernement togolais vont sans nul doute au Directeur  général sortant de l’UNESCO, M. Koïchiro Matsuura, pour les nombreuses initiatives qu’il a prises durant ses deux  mandats en vue de renforcer la crédibilité et l’efficacité de notre Organisation. L’histoire retiendra, nous en sommes  persuadés, les innovations qu’il a su promouvoir au sein de notre institution avec courage et clairvoyance en vue d’une  gestion plus rigoureuse de ses ressources, tout en sauvegardant la noble mission que s’est assignée l’UNESCO dès sa  création, à savoir, maintenir la paix dans l’esprit des hommes grâce à l’éducation, la science, la culture et la  communication.
22.2 Monsieur le Président, les mutations que subissent à présent nos sociétés respectives exigent de nous tous une  plus grande capacité d’analyse, d’imagination et de volonté, afin de tirer de cette évolution le meilleur parti pour  l’équilibre du monde. Le Gouvernement togolais, fermement engagé dans l’effort de développement du pays et dans la  stabilité des institutions de la République, est convaincu que la paix, qui est indispensable à tout progrès, doit être  réalisée partout et surtout sur notre continent confronté à des conflits inter- et intra-étatiques, afin de permettre aux  Africains de consacrer leur énergie et leur intelligence à la recherche de solutions aux défis auxquels ils sont confrontés.  Le Gouvernement togolais, en décidant d’abolir la peine de mort dans ses normes juridiques internes au cours de  l’année 2009, et en ayant créé la Commission « Vérité, Justice et Réconciliation », voudrait confirmer son attachement à  la paix et à la réconciliation nationale sans laquelle aucun développement n’est possible.
22.3 Monsieur le Président, dans un monde où les connaissances s’accroissent de façon exponentielle et  conditionnent aussi bien notre quotidien que notre devenir, le Gouvernement togolais fait de la formation des hommes  une de ses principales priorités dans le respect de l’équité et la recherche constante de la qualité et de la pertinence.  C’est ce qui explique, malgré les ressources limitées disponibles, sa décision de rendre l’enseignement primaire  obligatoire et gratuit pour tous, tout en ne perdant pas de vue que le développement de l’éducation doit faire l’objet d’une
183  approche holistique prenant en compte tous les niveaux du système éducatif, notamment l’enseignement technique et  professionnel et l’enseignement supérieur. Nous félicitons le Directeur général pour la réussite de la Conférence  mondiale sur l’enseignement supérieur organisée à Paris en juillet dernier et souhaitons de tout cœur que tout soit mis  en œuvre pour traduire ses principales recommandations en actions concrètes sur le terrain.
22.4 Monsieur le Président, le Projet de programme et de budget 35 C/5 pour 2010-2011 soumis à notre appréciation  est présenté au milieu d’une des plus graves crises financières et socioéconomiques de notre temps qui, si l’on y ajoute  les effets liés au changement climatique ainsi que les crises alimentaires et énergétiques, suscite des attentes et des  demandes considérables, voire des difficultés accrues pour tous les pays, et singulièrement ceux en développement.  L’Initiative pour l’alphabétisation : savoir pour pouvoir (LIFE), la politique de perfectionnement des enseignants en  Afrique subsaharienne par le biais de l’Initiative TTISSA ainsi que la réforme des systèmes d’enseignement et de  formation techniques et professionnels en vue de l’accès au monde du travail, qui constituent les fondements de l’EPT,  doivent être poursuivies et consolidées durant cet exercice biennal.
22.5 Mesdames et Messieurs, les problèmes engendrés par les graves inondations que mon pays a connues ces  deux dernières années, auxquels l’UNESCO n’a pas été insensible, nous amènent à insister sur la promotion de la  gestion des risques et catastrophes naturels. Mon pays encourage le Directeur général à maintenir l’appui de  l’Organisation à la poursuite des études approfondies du plateau continental, des États africains, dans le cadre de la  Convention des Nations Unies sur le droit de la mer. La nécessité de promouvoir la participation accrue des femmes à la  science et à la recherche doit être maintenue dans nos priorités. C’est ici l’occasion de remercier le Directeur général de  l’appui que l’Organisation apporte aux États membres dans le domaine des politiques scientifiques.
22.6 La priorité sectorielle biennale dans le domaine de la culture, concernant notamment la protection, la  sauvegarde et la gestion du patrimoine matériel et immatériel, a retenu notre attention. Le Gouvernement togolais  compte sur le soutien de l’UNESCO pour l’accompagner dans la réalisation d’un inventaire général de son patrimoine  culturel immatériel et matériel. La promotion du tourisme culturel, avec la matérialisation des sites des vestiges de  l’esclavage au Togo, est une autre préoccupation à laquelle mon pays attache une attention particulière.
22.7 Dans le domaine de la communication et de l’information, promouvoir la liberté d’expression et d’information et  renforcer les capacités des médias libres, indépendants et pluralistes et la communication au service du développement  durable est l’une de nos priorités.
22.8 Monsieur le Président, l’Afrique et l’égalité entre les sexes, prises en compte au niveau de tous les champs  majeurs de ce programme, restent deux priorités primordiales, et mon pays ne peut donc qu’apporter son soutien au  Projet de programme et de budget 2010-2011 de l’UNESCO. Je vous remercie.
23. The President:   Thank you, Your Excellency. Our next speaker is His Excellency Mr Luis Alberto Riart, Minster of Education of  Paraguay.
(24.1) Mr Riart (Paraguay) (translation from the Spanish):   Mr President of the 35th session of the General Conference, Mr Chair of the Executive Board, Mr Director-General,  distinguished Ministers and Heads of Delegation. Mr President, first, allow me to congratulate you on your election and to wish  you success in guiding the work of the 35th session of the General Conference. I would also like to express, on behalf of the  Government of Paraguay, our gratitude and appreciation to the Director-General, Mr Koïchiro Matsuura, for his tireless efforts  at the head of UNESCO and for his significant contribution over the past 10 years. His visit to Paraguay in March 2007 will  always be remembered. We also wish to commend the efforts of the Deputy Director-General, Mr Marcio Barbosa.
(24.2) We are witnessing a new era. For the first time in the history of the Organization, a woman will head the Directorate,  and this is certainly an event of the utmost significance. Ambassador Irina Bokova, the Republic of Paraguay would like to  congratulate you on your historic election and is firmly convinced that your able leadership will give fresh impetus to UNESCO.
(24.3) Mr President, I think we all agree that UNESCO represents not only education, science and culture, but also the  memory of the world. Without memory, we cannot build the future. The people of Paraguay in general, and in particular the  victims and relatives of victims and of those who disappeared during the dictatorship of Alfredo Stroessner, have welcomed  the inclusion of the “Archives of Terror” in the UNESCO Memory of the World Programme.
(24.4) Mr President, as the bicentenary of independence approaches, the people of Paraguay are undergoing a highly  beneficial social and cultural process of rediscovery of their history, values and identity. Today, we recognize ourselves as a  bilingual, sovereign and independent people, as a multi-ethnic and multicultural nation in the heart of South America, in which
20 indigenous peoples live side by side, together with several dozens of immigrant communities from around the world and  their descendants, who founded the nation on the banks of the Paraguay river. In this context, we may state that our intangible  cultural heritage is our greatest asset. As a State Party to the 2003 Convention and as members of the Committee, we  commend the success of the 4th session of the Intergovernmental Committee for the Safeguarding of the Intangible Cultural  Heritage held in Abu Dhabi and we wish to congratulate Kenya for opening the doors of Africa to the Committee. As a Member  State of UNESCO, we would like to share some of our views on the current challenges faced by the Organization.
(24.5) First, we endorse the view of those countries that consider that the role of UNESCO should be strengthened as an  international, multi-sectoral and multicultural actor in policies and activities related to education, culture and science. Second,  we concur with the objectives and goals proposed by UNESCO for the years to come. Allow me to explain why. Paraguay is  committed to the development of a proposal for social education focused on a systemic and emancipatory approach to  education, culture and science, which are not perceived as independent units, but as the natural habitat that shapes human  beings as individuals, citizens and subjects of history.
(24.6) The model of the new public school for all is one of the paths chosen by Paraguay for the implementation of this  project. It seeks to ensure that the school environment ceases to be artificial and aimed at rote learning and training, and  instead becomes a community forum for education, in which culture is experienced from a proactive and existential  perspective and in which science is used to address specific issues and to generate social knowledge. We are endeavouring  to ensure that the new Paraguayan school system is a quality-of-life workshop, based on learning to learn, shared learning,  learning to do and learning to be, from diversity to multiculturalism and inclusion as essential components of the new  educational approach that will enable the educational community to generate meaningful learning experiences.
(24.7) All of this is not, however, merely aimed at meeting market demands or at strengthening the economic development  model that led to the crisis currently affecting our countries. We do not wish to fall into the trap of placing standards above  people. On the contrary, we reaffirm that people are the priority, that education should be considered a public good and a  fundamental human right. We would like to work together with UNESCO in developing successful teacher training policies and  in reconsidering all that relates to digital literacy, the effective provision of free education, raising the profile of secondary  education, and enhanced social critical reflection focused on the search for and implementation of solutions to the real  problems affecting people.
(24.8) UNESCO should make every effort to ensure that its activities remain consistent with a culture of peace and provide  a forum conducive to dialogue. Paraguay is confident that UNESCO is one of the platforms from which we should persistently  call for world peace and prevent countries from returning to a completely irrational and unfounded arms race. I wish to  conclude by reiterating our confidence in UNESCO’s ethical soundness and ability to innovate. Furthermore, on behalf of the  people of Paraguay, I reaffirm our commitment to doing our utmost to achieve the objectives proposed by the General  Conference. Thank you very much.
25. The President:   Muchas gracias Excelencia. Our next speaker is Mr George Chaponda, Minister of Education, Science and  Technology of Malawi.
26.1 Mr Chaponda (Malawi):   Madam President, Mr Chair of the Executive Board, Mr Director-General of UNESCO, distinguished delegates,  first of all allow me to congratulate Mr Davidson Hepburn on his election to preside over this session of the General  Conference. I would also like to heartily congratulate Madam Irina Bokova on her nomination as Director-General.  Madam President, Malawi has been following Director-General Matsuura’s reform programme with a keen interest, and I  am confident as he winds up his term that a strong foundation has been laid.
26.2 Madam President, Malawi appreciates the Draft Medium-Term Strategy for 2008-2013, which is guiding the  biennial Programme and Budget. I am pleased to note that “supporting the achievement of education for all in countries  in need” is one of the two key priorities in the education programme, because Malawi is one such country in need. As  you will probably know, Malawi declared free primary education in 1994. Enrolment in primary schools has increased  from 1.9 million to about 3.2 million, representing a 60% increase which has also resulted in the attainment of gender  parity at junior primary level. Although young peoples’ literacy has risen from 63% to 71%, a shortage of teachers and an  unfavourable pupil-to-classroom ratio still remain a challenge. To achieve quality, the Government is strengthening  teacher training, among other strategies. To increase access to secondary education, particularly for girls, my  Government is constructing boarding facilities in educational institutions to eliminate the need for girls to travel long  distances to access education. However, our primary concern now is to address the issue of quality. We look at quality in  terms of retention, achievement and the teaching and learning process. This is where the Southern and Eastern Africa  Consortium for Monitoring Educational Quality (SACMEQ), supported by the UNESCO International Institute for  Education Planning, is assisting us to monitor, refine and focus on education quality. As the teacher is key for such  quality, and fully aware that Malawi has inadequate qualified teachers for both primary and secondary schools, my  Government’s strategy is to increase the number of qualified teachers in schools by constructing more teacher training  colleges and expanding the existing ones. In the meantime, there are a number of short-term programmes that are being  adopted such as open and distance learning, double-shifting and recruitment of auxiliary teachers. Madam President, all  that we have achieved in increasing access to education will come to nothing if we do not address the devastating  consequences of the HIV/AIDS pandemic. This is why my delegation also supports the third priority of HIV/AIDS in  education sector programmes. I would, however, add that due emphasis should also be placed on programmes that  empower the youth and therefore my delegation endorses the Director-General’s proposal to make technical and  vocational education and training one of the three building blocks for EFA alongside literacy and teachers.
26.3 Madam President, the Government of Malawi acknowledges that in addition to other factors, such as growth in  GDP, the wealth of a country is measured by its levels of science and technology. To cope with the increasing complexity  of science and technology, my Government is making efforts to break down the traditional barriers through new policy  directions, relevant research and rethinking the delivery of science and technology. In this regard, my Government has  launched a science and technology commission and is building the Lilongwe University of Science and Technology.
26.4 Madam President, the Government of Malawi fully recognizes the importance of culture and cultural  programmes in the development of Member States. It is my belief that Africa has a lot to offer to human heritage, peace  and development. I would therefore encourage this august assembly to endorse activities aimed at promoting cultural  diversity through the safeguarding of the heritage and enhancement of cultural expressions. In a special way, let me also  once again thank the Director-General for bestowing the status of Master pieces of the Oral and Intangible Heritage of  Humanity on Malawi’s Gule Wamkulu and the Vimbuza healing dance. Madam President, let me end by quoting His  Excellency President Ngwazi Dr Bingu wa Mutharika, whose chosen clarion call is this: “Let the work of my hands speak  for me”. I therefore say to this august gathering, let us work together to cultivate the mind and let the work of our minds  speak for us. Long live UNESCO. I thank you all for your attention.
27. The President:   Thank you, Your Excellency. Our next speaker is Her Excellency Ms Lebohang Ntsinyi, Minister of Tourism,  Environment and Culture of Lesotho.
28.1 Ms Ntsinyi (Lesotho):  Thank you very much, Madam President, Mr Chair of the Executive Board, Mr Director-General of UNESCO,  distinguished ladies and gentlemen, I wish to congratulate Mr Hepburn on his election as President of the 35th session of  the General Conference. In the past biennium, the Kingdom of Lesotho has ratified the Convention for the Safeguarding  of the Intangible Cultural Heritage and then, almost immediately, set about training officials from several African countries  on how to prepare for the listing of a heritage site. The training took place with the assistance of UNESCO. Plans are  under way to have the country’s first heritage site inscribed on the World Heritage List. However, given the wealth of  history in Lesotho, we are confident to have more sites listed under the Convention in the near future.
28.2 North-South cooperation has seen a link established between the National Commission of the Kingdom of  Losotho and the National Commission of Germany as well as four other National Commissions in Africa. The main  objective of the link is for the well-established National Commissions to assist in building capacity for those that are still
186  lagging behind. Several workshops have already been organized and hosted by the recipient countries. The other  participants in the capacity-building initiatives were drawn from several regional cluster offices as well, hence the North- South-South cooperation.
28.3 The Lesotho National Associated Schools Project and the National Federation of UNESCO Clubs were  launched in the last quarter of 2008 and the first quarter of 2009 respectively. The first ASPnet camp was held in  November 2008 as a Participation Programme project. The next step for the Federation of UNESCO Clubs is to be  registered with the Law Office so that it can thereafter be registered with the World Federation of UNESCO Clubs and  Associations. It has been the country’s honour to have been assisted with the eight of the ten Participation Programme  projects the National Commission had submitted. The eight Participation Programme projects, have allowed the country  to carry out a number of projects, the highlights of which are the development of the Lesotho sign language, and a  South-South initiative where the programme coordinator for science was attached for two weeks to the National  Commission of Namibia.
28.4 Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, it is our sincere hope that the economic meltdown which has affected  the economies of the world will not affect UNESCO, and that the Member States will continue to honour their obligations  to the Organization. In this respect, we envisage that UNESCO will continue to provide its much-needed assistance to  Member States. Despite the economic meltdown, UNESCO should continue to allocate resources to its Medium-Term  Strategy Priorities of Africa and gender equality. Africa faces insurmountable poverty problems and only education can  contribute to resolving those problems. The Kingdom of Lesotho has embarked upon a number of initiatives to accelerate  achievement of the education for all (EFA) goals. These initiatives include the expansion and improvement of  comprehensive early childhood care and education since 2006; transition from free primary education to free and  compulsory primary education; elimination of gender disparities at all levels of education, with the achievement of gender  equality; and incorporation of entrepreneurial skills into the non-formal education.
28.5 Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to address the retirement of the Director-General,  Mr Matsuura. During his term in office, Mr Matsuura has introduced a number of positive reforms within the Organization.  He now leaves it better prepared to fulfil its mandate. We are confident that the Organization will continue to cherish and  live by the ideals of peace for all humanity enshrined in the Constitution. Finally, the Kingdom of Lesotho welcomes the  Director-General designate Madam Irina Bokova as the ideal candidate to lead the Organization. We believe that given  her experience, and with the assistance of the Member States, she will be able to carry out her mandate with distinction  and bring the Organization to an even higher level. I thank you.
29. The President:   Thank you, Your Excellency. Our next speaker is His Excellency Mr Kalidou Diallo, Minister of Education of  Senegal.
30.1 M. Diallo (Sénégal) :   Monsieur le Président de la Conférence générale, Monsieur le Président du Conseil exécutif, Messieurs les  ministres et chefs de délégation, Monsieur le Directeur général, Messieurs les ambassadeurs, Honorables invités,  Messieurs, qu’il me soit d’abord permis de souscrire à l’agréable devoir d’adresser les félicitations les plus chaleureuses  du Sénégal à M. Davidson Hepburn pour sa brillante élection à la Présidence de la Conférence générale. Monsieur le  Président, si nous accordons toujours le plus grand soin à ce rituel, c’est qu’il nous permet de rendre un hommage à  ceux, comme vous, dont la vie et l’œuvre incarnent le mieux les idéaux de notre Organisation. Mes félicitations vont  également aux vice-présidents et rapporteurs élus qui, tous, nous en sommes persuadés, mériteront amplement notre  confiance.
30.2 Mesdames et Messieurs, notre Organisation vit, avec la présente Conférence générale, des moments intenses  d’émotion. Nous faisons en effet nos adieux au Directeur général sortant, M. Koïchiro Matsuura. Je voudrais, à la suite  de mes collègues et au nom de mon pays, lui rendre l’hommage le plus vibrant et lui témoigner notre profonde et totale  satisfaction. Il ne fait aucun doute que l’histoire lui réservera la juste place qui lui revient dans les progrès accomplis par  l’UNESCO. Homme de mesure, de consensus et de rigueur, M. Matsuura a su orienter avec brio notre Organisation vers  la réflexion en profondeur et l’action déterminée. Que son mandat ait été bien accompli, rien ne le prouve mieux que son  legs précieux. Aujourd’hui, en effet, nous disposons, dans tous les secteurs d’activité de l’UNESCO, de solides acquis à  préserver. Quelle meilleure trajectoire que celle qui est jalonnée de réalisations impérissables et balise les voies de  l’avenir les plus indiquées ?
30.3 Mesdames et Messieurs, pendant les années Matsuura, l’UNESCO a réalisé des avancées extrêmement  significatives en matière d’éducation, l’un de ses piliers fondamentaux. Ne serait-ce que pour le présent exercice biennal,  les bilans présentés et les perspectives ouvertes par la 48e session de la Conférence internationale de l'éducation sur le  thème « L'éducation pour l'inclusion, la voie de l'avenir », tenue en novembre 2008 à Genève (Suisse), la Conférence  mondiale sur l'éducation pour le développement durable – S'engager dans la seconde moitié de la Décennie, organisée  en mars-avril 2009 à Bonn (Allemagne) et la Conférence mondiale sur l’enseignement supérieur – La nouvelle  dynamique de l'enseignement supérieur et de la recherche au service du progrès sociétal et du développement, tenue  en juillet 2009 à Paris (France), sont significatifs à cet égard. J’y ajoute la priorité donnée à la formation des enseignants,  particulièrement dans le cadre de l’Initiative pour la formation des enseignants en Afrique subsaharienne, sans oublier  les programmes d’éducation et de protection de la petite enfance. À ce sujet, le Sénégal, après avoir maillé tout le  territoire national de « Cases des tout-petits », s’apprête à accueillir, du 10 au 13 novembre 2009, la quatrième  Conférence internationale africaine sur le développement de la petite enfance, qui sera, j’en suis persuadé, un moment  de plaidoyer et de mobilisation. Il ne fait donc nul doute que la sixième Conférence internationale sur l'éducation des  adultes, CONFINTEA VI – sur le thème « Vivre et apprendre pour un futur viable – L'importance de l'éducation des
187  adultes », qui aura lieu en décembre 2009 à Belém (Brésil) sera, dans le sillage tracé, un moment de mutualisation des  efforts au niveau planétaire, pour parachever notre engagement en faveur de l’éducation.
30.4 Durant la dernière décennie, dans le domaine des sciences exactes et naturelles, les États membres ont pris  conscience, grâce à l’UNESCO, de l’ampleur du défi auquel notre planète est confrontée. Je voudrais également vous  dire que M. le Président de la République, en ce qui concerne la grande muraille verte, a proposé à la tribune des  Nations Unies de confier aux armées la création d’une nouvelle mission de Sauvegarde et de restauration de  l’environnement. Une armée verte universelle, n’est-ce pas là une proposition idoine ?
30.5 Le Secteur des sciences sociales et humaines s’est, quant à lui, distingué par l’impulsion qu’il a donnée à la  recherche concernant l’approche holistique des missions de l’UNESCO. Les instruments que constituent, à cet égard, la  COMEST et le programme MOST ont permis l’élaboration de stratégies et d’initiatives pour une articulation efficiente  entre la recherche et l’éthique.
30.6 Je parlais des idéaux. En effet, dans le respect de son Acte constitutif, l’UNESCO a également entraîné, grâce à  son action, la ratification massive de la Convention pour la sauvegarde du patrimoine culturel immatériel. Le même  processus et le même esprit se retrouvent, concernant la Convention de 2005 sur la protection et la promotion de la  diversité des expressions culturelles.
30.7 Je voudrais terminer cette intervention en rendant un vibrant hommage à M. Matsuura, une fois de plus. Au  terme de ce survol, que je n’ai opéré que pour rappeler que nous sommes soudés, je voudrais exprimer une certitude, à  savoir que l’héritage de M. Matsuura sera préservé et fructifié.
30.8 Enfin, pour paraphraser la réponse au discours de réception de la première académicienne française,  Mme Bokova entrera dans l’histoire comme « la première venue » à la tête de l’Organisation. Je vous remercie de votre  attention.
31. The President:   Thank you Your Excellency. Our next speaker is His Excellency, Mr João Câncio Freitas, Minister of Education  of Timor-Leste.
32.1 Mr Freitas (Timor-Leste):   Madam President, Your Excellency the Chair of the Executive Board, Your Excellency the Director-General,  honourable ministers, distinguished delegates, ladies and gentlemen, as you all know Timor-Leste is a young, fledgling  nation in terms of institution-building and legal frameworks. We have recently celebrated the 10th anniversary of the  United Nations-sponsored referendum of August 1999, which ultimately led to our independence. It is my great pleasure  to be here before such a distinguished assembly and to be able to report that, despite the fact that our national  independence is less than a decade old, we have taken the necessary measures to ensure that Timor-Leste has in place  the foundations of a robust and vibrant democracy, good governance and state institutions in which our people have faith.  We are a young and emerging nation starting our development from scratch both in terms of infrastructure and human  resources.
32.2 Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, since our independence in May 2002, successive governments have  emphasized the pivotal role that education plays in sustainable development. All our education sector initiatives are  centred on the objective of developing and implementing a quality education system in order to provide our people with  the knowledge and skills to be able to participate in the global market. We have embraced the education for all (EFA)  principles and policies and are making progress towards achieving the Millennium Development Goals (MDGs). Literacy,  teacher training and skills development are three fundamental areas of EFA on which we are working intensively. We  have established the legal framework for implementing universal, compulsory and free basic education for 9 years of  schooling as mandated by our National Education Bill, approved in October 2008. We have also embarked upon an  ambitious national literacy campaign with the aim of declaring Timor-Leste free of illiteracy in the next couple of years, at  least before 2015, and boosting our functional literacy and numeracy rates. Professional development and training of  teachers to meet current and future demands is particularly challenging given Timor-Leste’s complex linguistic reality,  with 16 national languages spoken across the country, and Tetum and Portuguese defined as our official languages. We  are committed to creating and maintaining a multilingual administration and learning environment for our children, but we  would benefit from UNESCO’s vast experience of best practices in terms of the promotion of indigenous cultural  expressions and languages, while promoting our two official languages, Tetum and Portuguese. We are also promoting  technical and vocational education and training (TVET) and skills development within a broader framework of lifelong  learning, while putting a strong emphasis on secondary and post-secondary technical education. In the area of higher  education, we have completed the internationally-led external assessment of our national tertiary institutions, and have  subsequently awarded successful institutions with operating licences and institutional accreditation. We are currently  reviewing and developing the national curriculum for all levels of schooling. In order to reduce the disparity in educational  opportunities between urban and remote rural areas, starting next academic year in January 2010, we will be using  technology for educational purposes, particularly radio and television education programmes aimed at providing students  in all districts with access to quality education.
32.3 In the area of culture, we have recently approved a national cultural policy for the preservation of our rich cultural  heritage and national patrimony. Foreign researchers have identified 65 sites of ancient rock paintings which we would  like to protect and preserve, not only for future Timorese generations but as possible World Heritage sites. We have also  received support from the UNESCO Regional Office in Jakarta to promote the establishment of our national museum.
32.4 Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, we are finalizing our education strategic plan, which highlights the  Government’s commitment to achieving the MDGs, education for sustainable development and inclusive education, with
188  a particular emphasis on equity and gender issues. We will, therefore, request the continuous support of UNESCO in  order to achieve our educational, scientific and cultural objectives for our people.
32.5 Finally, we have followed the example of other countries by establishing in April this year the Timor-Leste  National Commission for UNESCO in the hope that the work of this, the youngest of the world National Commissions will  help advance at the national level UNESCO-related initiatives within our communities. As a young small island, and post- conflict nation, Timor-Leste recognizes the importance of education, science, culture and communication and information  in helping to develop not only an economically prosperous and sustainable developed State, but also in helping build a  tolerant, just and informed nation, a nation where everyone has the opportunity to be educated and to be part of a wider,  culturally rich community: the global village. Thank you.
33. The President:   Thank you, Your Excellency. Our next speaker is His Excellency Mr Misir Mardanov, Minister of Education of  Azerbaijan.
(34.1) Mr Mardanov (Azerbaijan) (translation from the Russian):   Esteemed President of the General Conference, esteemed Director-General, ladies and gentlemen. First of all I  should like to use this opportunity to congratulate Ms Irina Bokova, a person of high professional and human qualities, on her  nomination as Director-General and I wish her every success in that responsible post. I should also like to express my  gratitude to Mr Koïchiro Matsuura for his successful management of UNESCO’s action and his great services in strengthening  cooperation between Azerbaijan and UNESCO. While it cooperates with many international organizations, Azerbaijan pays  particular attention to its cooperation with UNESCO. Our country has acceded to most of UNESCO’s standard-setting  instruments and has participated in a number of large-scale projects.
(34.2) Madam President, the rapid economic development of Azerbaijan in recent years has created conditions for reforms  in all areas, including in education systems. Thus, in comparison with last year, the resources allocated for education from the  State budget have increased by 21%. In the past two years more than 500 new schools have been built and supplied with new  equipment. The process of supplying free textbooks to all pupils has been completed. The number of schools with Internet  access has increased 20 times. Under the programmes of Education for All implemented with UNESCO’s support, projects are  being successfully carried out in the area of lifelong education, adult education and advanced training. We are pleased to  relate that one of the United Nations’ five regional conferences on the eradication of illiteracy was held last year in the city of  Baku.
(34.3) A special place is occupied by cooperation with UNESCO in the field of culture. I am proud to say that the art of  Azerbaijani Ashiq and the festival of Novruz were recently added to the UNESCO Intangible Heritage List. In Africa, which is a  priority region for UNESCO, our country is providing financial support for the project of cultural heritage schools in Benin.  Regarding Azerbaijan’s cooperation with UNESCO in the sciences, mention must be made of the State programme for the  development of science for 2009-2015. I wish to express my profound gratitude to UNESCO for its assistance in the  preparation of this programme.
(34.4) Madam President, in speaking about Azerbaijan’s cooperation with UNESCO, I should like particularly to note the  activity of the Heydar Aliyev Foundation and its President, the UNESCO Goodwill Ambassador Ms Mehriban Aliyeva. As a  result of the Foundation’s activities within Azerbaijan and abroad, new schools, children’s homes, sports centres and medical  facilities have been built. The Mugham Centre built in Baku in 2009 has held the first international festival dedicated to the  ancient musical genre, the Mugham, which has been added to the UNESCO Representative List of the Intangible Heritage. I  should also like to mention the Foundation’s participation in the restoration of the cathedral in the French city of Strasbourg  which is a gem of gothic architecture. Then I think of all the many activities undertaken by the Foundation and UNESCO  Headquarters to make known the rich musical culture and historical figures of Azerbaijan.
(34.5) Madam President, I should now like to refer to the most difficult problem we have had to face for a period of 20 years.  As a result of the military aggression of a neighbouring State, one fifth of our country’s national territory was occupied, more  than 20,000 people died, over a million people became refugees and the country suffered material damage amounting to $60  billion. Just think: in Nagorno-Karabakh and neighbouring regions over 900 libraries, 700 educational and medical institutions,
26 museums and nine mosques were destroyed. I am sorry to say that all of this was the result of the aggression by Armenia,  with which we have lived as neighbours for centuries. As a consequence of this policy, 250,000 Azeris who historically lived in  Armenia were driven out of that country, and many cultural monuments, mosques and cemeteries were destroyed. And the  most shocking aspect is that the instigators of all these events endeavour to present themselves from the highest platforms as  the victims. In actual fact, the victims are the people of Azerbaijan, their culture and nature. The victims are the Azeris who  lived for centuries on the territory of what is now Armenia, including myself and my relatives.
(34.6) Madam President, Azerbaijan is attached to the ideals of UNESCO and is confident that this Organization is guided  by a conception of a new humanism and is contributing to the re-establishment of stability and values which are common to all  humanity. Thank you for your attention.
35. The President:   Thank you, Your Excellency. Our next speaker is His Excellency Mr Makar Mwangu Famba, Minister of  Education of the Democratic Republic of Congo.
36.1 M. Mwangu Famba (République démocratique du Congo) :  Madame la Présidente, nous vous transmettons les salutations ainsi que les vœux de succès pour nos travaux,  de Son Excellence M. Joseph Kabila, Président de la République démocratique du Congo. Nous félicitons M. le  Président de la Conférence générale pour son élection à la tête du Bureau de la Conférence générale, M. Joseph Olabiyi  Babalola pour avoir dirigé avec brio, deux ans durant, les travaux du Conseil exécutif, M. Koïchiro Matsuura, pour la  nouvelle impulsion donnée à l’UNESCO. Nous félicitons aussi Mme Irina Bokova pour sa désignation par le Conseil  exécutif comme Directrice générale pour les quatre années à venir, qui deviendra ainsi la première femme à diriger  l’UNESCO.
36.2 Nous avons examiné le Projet de programme et de budget pour l’exercice 2010-2011 et nous nous félicitons de  ce que la reconstruction de l’Afrique et l’égalité entre les sexes y figurent en tant que priorités biennales transversales,  ce qui correspond à l’engagement de notre pays dans la lutte contre les obstacles à la dignité de la femme,  particulièrement l’illettrisme, l’extrême pauvreté et les violences sexuelles. Des lois ont été votées pour combattre ces  fléaux et nous approuvons des initiatives proposées par nos partenaires pour les vaincre. La RDC réitère sa disponibilité  pour accueillir à Kinshasa le siège du Centre régional de recherche et de documentation sur les femmes, le genre et la  construction de la paix dans la région des Grands Lacs ; il deviendrait centre de catégorie 2 placé sous l’égide  l’UNESCO.
36.3 Nous nous réjouissons de voir que le budget alloué à l’UNESCO a été accru. L’échéance de 2015, en ce qui  concerne l’Éducation pour tous, est dans six ans. Dans beaucoup de pays en développement, les objectifs assignés à  l’EPT seront loin d’être atteints. Le Congo espère compter parmi les 20 pays ciblés pour bénéficier d’un soutien renforcé  en vue de la réalisation des objectifs de l’Éducation pour tous. Par ailleurs, l’UNESCO devrait affirmer son leadership  dans la mise en œuvre de l’EPT en réussissant le pari de la mobilisation des ressources financières requises en faveur  des pays en situation de postconflit, dont la République démocratique du Congo. Un projet de loi sur l’enseignement
190  national allonge la durée du primaire de six à huit ans pour améliorer l’apprentissage et rend l’enseignement de base  gratuit et obligatoire. Il va de soi que cette réforme nécessite la révision des programmes et du mode de formation des  maîtres, ainsi que la construction et la réhabilitation d’infrastructures scolaires. La RDC rappelle la recommandation de la
48e Conférence internationale de l’éducation tenue à Genève sur le respect des infrastructures scolaires en cas de  conflit armé. L’école doit être sacrée et inviolable.
36.4 Nous souscrivons aux priorités biennales retenues dans le secteur des sciences et de la technologie. Avec  l’appui de l’UNESCO, notre pays a déjà élaboré un avant-projet de loi sur le développement de la recherche scientifique  et technologique et l’innovation. Quant à la gestion des ressources terrestres et en eau, nous soutenons notamment le  projet GRAPHIC sur l’évaluation des ressources en eaux souterraines et sollicitons l’accompagnement de l’UNESCO  pour l’évaluation des aquifères transnationaux dans la sous-région de la SADC et la création de réserves  transfrontalières avec le Rwanda et l’Ouganda, de même qu’avec l’Angola et la République du Congo. Un risque  écologique majeur, résultant des émanations du gaz que renferme le lac Kivu, menace les pays membres de la  Communauté économique des pays des Grands Lacs. Un appui de l’UNESCO et celui d’autres partenaires dans le  cadre de la prévention des catastrophes est vivement souhaité. Nous renouvelons également notre appel pour la  poursuite des efforts concertés en vue de la sauvegarde de nos parcs naturels inscrits sur la Liste du patrimoine mondial.  La RDC héberge 10 % de la forêt tropicale du monde et compte aider l’humanité à lutter contre le réchauffement  climatique. Le Gouvernement congolais, en accord avec les gouvernements de la région, voudrait faire de l’École  régionale postuniversitaire d’aménagement et de gestion intégrés des forêts et territoires tropicaux (ERAIFT) un  établissement d’enseignement universitaire qui deviendrait centre de catégorie 2 placé sous l’égide de l’UNESCO.
36.5 Nous encourageons le renforcement du programme MOST ainsi que le renforcement des capacités des centres  de recherche en sciences sociales et humaines pour nous aider à relever les défis sociaux. Nous proposons de faire  intervenir des spécialistes en philosophie pour consolider la culture de la paix et trouver des solutions durables aux  crises à répétition que connaît la sous-région des Grands Lacs. La création de l’Observatoire national des droits humains  est imminente. Nous exprimons notre vif intérêt pour les activités sportives, facteurs de paix et de convivialité. Le  processus de ratification de la Convention internationale contre le dopage dans le sport est très avancé, conformément  aux recommandations des États généraux des sports organisés dernièrement à Kinshasa.
36.6 Dans le cadre du grand programme IV, nous procéderons bientôt à la ratification de trois nouveaux instruments  normatifs, la loi y relative étant déjà votée par le Parlement. L’approche socioculturelle dans la lutte contre le VIH/SIDA  mérite aussi des encouragements, tout comme l’utilisation des langues nationales comme médium d’enseignement et  d’apprentissage. Nous saluons l’appui de l’UNESCO dans ce domaine au cours de l’exercice écoulé et sollicitons  l’accompagnement de l’Organisation pour l’édition de livres dans les langues en péril ainsi que l’organisation, à Kinshasa,  d’une rencontre culturelle des jeunes artistes dénommée « Art Camp RDC ».
36.7 S’agissant du grand programme V, nous considérons que la liberté d’expression et l’accès à l’information  contribuent à la consolidation de la paix, de la démocratie et à la promotion de la bonne gouvernance. Nous avons une  loi relative au statut des journalistes et une autre portant sur l’exercice de la liberté de la presse. En outre, nous  encourageons le renforcement de la capacité opérationnelle du PIDC et du PIPT, en vue de leur permettre de remplir  correctement leurs missions respectives. Au cours de l’exercice biennal qui s’achève, nous avons obtenu de l’UNESCO  un appui pour la mise à jour du plan directeur de la communication et des médias. Monsieur le Président, Excellences,  Mesdames et Messieurs, nous vous remercions.
37. The President:   Thank you, Your Excellency. Our next speaker is Her Excellency Mrs Mahlet Hailu, Chargée d’Affaires of  Ethiopia.
38.1 Ms Hailu (Ethiopia):   Madam President, representatives of the Executive Board, Mr Director-General, Excellencies, on behalf of the  Ethiopian delegation let me first congratulate Mr Hepburn on his election as President of the 35th session of the General  Conference, and express our appreciation to the outgoing President for a very successful term of office. Madam  President, Ethiopia endorses the $653 million budget ceiling for the 2010-2011 biennium, although it is by no means  sufficient to reasonably address the various programmes that we need to carry out. At the same time, we would like to  stress the importance of finding new ways of raising funds for our programmes from potential partners, including the  private sector. We also want to see a coherent and well-formulated approach by the Organization and its field offices to  fundraising.
38.2 Turning to programme issues in education concerning education for all (EFA), the resources issue is no doubt  fundamental, but we feel it should be supplemented by the most efficient and effective use of whatever resources are  available. The concerns peculiar to individual Member States, including the various mother tongues as media of  instruction and the relative size of marginalized populations such as persons with disabilities and children from poor  homes, should also be considered in devising more effective strategies for achieving EFA. In this regard, we consider  South-South cooperation in education to be an important means of sharing useful experience, but we also recognize the  significance of collaboration by the North. In connection with education, Ethiopia has made significant strides in terms of  primary school enrolment. Technical and vocational education and training (TVET) and higher education are being  expanded; and quality improvement is also being pursued vigorously. Yet we know there is a need to do more. Beyond  national efforts, Ethiopia is collaborating with the African Union and UNESCO in organizing the ninth EFA High-Level  Group meeting in February 2010 in Addis Ababa. In this regard, we would like to call upon all relevant partners to join our  efforts for the success of the meeting. I would also like to state that Ethiopia remains committed to enhancing the  activities of the UNESCO International Institute for Capacity-Building in Africa (IICBA).
38.3 Pertaining to science, our main concern is the issue of climate change and its negative impact worldwide, on  developing countries in particular. In tackling the issue, discussions on specific themes such as adaptation and mitigation  are certainly worth serious consideration. But all efforts shall have limited practical value unless further damage is  prevented through ethical responsibility, negotiation and concrete action. In this regard, we welcome the decision of the
182nd session of the Executive Board which called upon the Director-General to have the necessary consultations with  those concerned, and also to consider the conclusions of the United Nations Conference on Climate Change in  December 2009 in Copenhagen in preparing a report to the 185th session of the Board. I wish to add that Ethiopia gives  great importance to the International Year of Chemistry (2011) for which UNESCO is the lead agency.
38.4 Concerning culture, our major concern is the advancement of the inscription of World Heritage sites as well as  the conservation and promotion of existing ones. But we also feel that the future of the World Heritage Convention, and  the increasing tasks of the World Heritage Committee, need more discussion and consultation. We would further like to  add that the promotion of the cultural industries should be given major attention to help the advancement efforts of  Member States, particularly the developing countries.
38.5 In communication and information, we feel it is particularly important to narrow down the digital divide between  developed and developing countries by facilitating cooperation between Member States. The use of ICTs in promoting  UNESCO’s activities, particularly in relation to EFA, as stated in the mission statement of the Information for All  Programme (IFAP), should also be advanced.
38.6 Regarding administration and management, the decentralization process needs close monitoring and  adjustment depending on the outcomes of previous efforts and constraints with a view to achieving greater efficiency and  better coordination of activities. My delegation puts emphasis on the availability of adequate expertise in UNESCO's field  offices to work closely with national offices, on a much closer working relationship between field offices and National  Commissions, and on the training of nationals in areas of UNESCO's mandate.
38.7 Finally, permit me, Madam President, to congratulate Her Excellency Ambassador Irina Bokova, UNESCO’s  Director-General designate, on her success, and to express the high appreciation of my delegation to the outgoing  Director-General, Mr Koïchiro Matsuura, for the tremendous work he accomplished during his two terms of office. I thank  you.
39. The President:   Thank you, Your Excellency. Our next speaker is His Excellency Mr Saidï Kibeya, Minister of Education of  Burundi.
40.1 M. Kibeya (Burundi) :  Madame la Présidente, Excellences, Mesdames, Messieurs, je voudrais d’abord présenter, au nom de la  délégation du Burundi et en mon nom propre, mes vives félicitations à M. le Président de la Conférence générale et lui  souhaiter plein succès dans la conduite de la Conférence. Le Gouvernement du Burundi voudrait aussi rendre hommage  à M. Koichïro Matsuura pour sa direction clairvoyante et réformatrice de l'Organisation pendant les dix dernières années,  et transmet ses chaleureuses félicitations à Mme Irina Bokova pour sa désignation au poste de Directrice générale de  l'UNESCO, se réjouissant du choix des États membres de porter une femme à la tête de l'Organisation.
40.2 Madame la Présidente, la présente session se tient à un moment où le Burundi a marqué des avancées dans le  rétablissement de la paix et de la sécurité, la paix dont le maintien par l'éducation, la culture et le développement inclusif  constitue une préoccupation du Burundi et de la famille de l'UNESCO. Le Gouvernement du Burundi, issu des élections  de 2005, est grandement occupé à sortir définitivement son peuple des affres de l'exclusion, de la haine, des conflits  claniques et ethniques sur fonds de massacres, lesquelles ont marqué l'histoire du pays au cours des quatre dernières  décennies, pour enfin ramener le Burundi sur la voie de la réconciliation, de la paix et du développement. En effet,  malgré la complexité et l'instabilité de l'environnement social et politique observé en 2005, le Gouvernement du Burundi  a réussi à conclure avec le PALIPEHUTU-FNL d’alors, des négociations pour amener ce dernier mouvement de rébellion  à s’intégrer dans l'espace politique en tant que parti politique FNL, et à s’intégrer aussi dans l'armée, la police et les  structures publiques, sociales et économiques du pays. Actuellement, la paix et la sécurité sont une réalité sur toute  l'étendue du territoire national, le dialogue et la participation aux affaires publiques par toutes les composantes  nationales sont une pratique constante.
40.3 Les Burundais saisissent la présente occasion pour remercier encore une fois tous nos partenaires qui ont aidé  et soutenu notre pays, particulièrement l'UNESCO, et ont été constamment proches du peuple burundais, pour l'aider à  briser la glace de la méfiance et à initier le rapprochement des tendances divergentes. Conscient du nécessaire  renforcement de la paix dans la région des Grands Lacs africains et sur tout le continent, le Burundi a participé aux  initiatives d'intégration régionale, aux processus de maintien de la paix en Afrique, je citerai ici les missions des Nations  Unies en Côte d'Ivoire, au Darfour et en Somalie, ainsi qu'aux programmes en éducation, science et culture partagés par  les autres pays africains, essentiellement ceux de la Communauté économique des pays des Grands Lacs (CEPGL) et  de la Communauté est-africaine.
40.4 Excellences, Mesdames, Messieurs, revenant sur le Projet de programme et de budget 2010-2011 de  l'UNESCO, le Burundi se réjouit de constater que, dans son ensemble, ce programme rencontre ses attentes. Le  Burundi soutient en effet les activités prévues dans le cadre du grand programme I sur l'éducation, particulièrement les  actions qui visent à assurer une éducation de base de qualité et pour tous, comme facteur propice à la promotion du  développement et à l'édification d'une culture de la paix. C'est dans ce sens que, sous le leadership de Son Excellence  M. Pierre Nkurunziza, Président de la République, le Burundi a mis en pratique des stratégies visant la généralisation et  la gratuité de l'enseignement de base pour les enfants en âge de scolarisation. Ainsi, depuis l'année 2005, période à
192  laquelle le gouvernement a mis en place la mesure touchant la gratuité de l'enseignement de base, les effectifs du  primaire ont augmenté de 70 %, passant de 1 million à 1 700 000 écoliers et permettant de porter le taux net de  scolarisation de 53 % à plus de 85 %. Ces résultats, qui devraient permettre au Burundi de réaliser les objectifs de  l'Éducation de base pour tous à l'horizon 2015 malgré des conditions économiques modestes, ont été atteints grâce à la  forte mobilisation du peuple burundais. C'est ainsi que dans le cadre des travaux communautaires, la population a  construit plus de 700 écoles au cours de la seule année 2008.
40.5 Cependant, une contrainte majeure subsiste, celle de la mobilisation de ressources financières suffisantes pour  améliorer la qualité de l'enseignement grâce à la fourniture d’équipements et de matériels scolaires adéquats, au  recrutement d’enseignants et à l'amélioration de leur rémunération. L'enseignement professionnel et technique, ainsi que  l'enseignement supérieur, retiennent également l'attention du Gouvernement du Burundi, à travers une réforme profonde  de l'organisation des enseignements, de leurs finalités et de leurs méthodes, ainsi que le renforcement quantitatif et  qualitatif de la formation des formateurs.
40.6 S'agissant des programmes relatifs aux sciences exactes et naturelles, et aux sciences sociales et humaines,  les activités visant au renforcement des capacités nationales rejoignent les préoccupations du Burundi. Avec l'appui de  l'UNESCO, le Burundi vient ainsi de lancer un processus de redéfinition de la politique nationale sur la science et la  technologie avec un objectif général, celui d'asseoir le rôle de la science, de la technologie et de la recherche aux fins du  développement durable.
40.7 Excellences, Mesdames, Messieurs, le Gouvernement du Burundi reconnaît que des défis importants se posent  à l'humanité, aujourd'hui plus qu'hier, mais nous sommes convaincus qu'avec les valeurs de solidarité et de partage que  l'UNESCO a inscrites dans sa mission, des solutions rapides seront toujours trouvées. C'est ainsi que je voudrais  terminer mon propos, en réaffirmant l'attachement du Burundi aux idéaux de l'UNESCO et l'engagement du  gouvernement de mon pays à la défense et à la promotion de ces idéaux pour le bien de l'humanité. Je vous remercie.
41. The President:   Thank you, Your Excellency. Our next speaker is Her Excellency Ms Miroslava Kopicová, Minister of Education,  Youth and Sports of the Czech Republic.
42.1 Ms Kopicová (Czech Republic):  Madam President, Excellencies, delegates, ladies and gentlemen, I am very pleased to be here with you today.  Let me first congratulate the President of this session of the General Conference on his election and wish him good luck  on his mission. I would also like to thank Mr Matsuura, the outgoing Director-General, for his ten years’ dedication to  UNESCO, for his reforms to make our agency more transparent, efficient and decentralized, and for his contribution to  the conception and adoption of several major conventions. Let me congratulate Madam Irina Bokova warmly on her  nomination as Director-General. We shall be delighted to work with her, and I am personally very glad that, for the first  time, UNESCO will be directed by a woman. I am also pleased that 20 years after the fall of the Berlin Wall, the new  Director-General comes from the part of Europe where those events took place.
42.2 Madame President, the Czech Republic fully endorses the joint statement of the Member and Candidate States  of the European Union presented by Sweden, including the stress on the necessity of greater efficiency on the part of  UNESCO, the view on the budget for the next two years, the importance of human rights and freedom of speech, to  which we are particularly attached, as well as the confirmation of Africa and gender equality as overarching priorities.  The current economic problems may reflect on the outcome of this Conference, but they should not have an impact on  the key mission of our Organization. Better education and more culture are tools with which we face the twenty-first  century. A strong multilateral system is a framework that the new world needs for its more effective functioning. We  support the changes in the General Conference today: more openness to the media and the outside world, and more  debates through the new plenary ministerial forum. Nevertheless, UNESCO needs to reform certain practices even more:  a better ratio between programme and administrative activities, and more decentralization and work in the field.
42.3 Madam President, in recent years, UNESCO has organized several major conferences that have shown literacy  and quality education to be prerequisites of human dignity and a successful life. Our Organization should probably seek  more contacts and more cooperation with other actors devoted to education in the world, analysing where it is unique.  The education for all (EFA) programme is a means that we should all foster, with the year 2015 approaching. In this  respect, the Czech Republic will continue its long-standing policy of offering scholarships to young people from  developing countries. Education for sustainable development (ESD) is a major tool, and in this respect the Bonn  conference was a key moment. Humanities is a field that UNESCO should cultivate, with philosophy and other disciplines  needing to be promoted in today’s’ technological world. We are supporters of international thinking to introduce legal  standards for ethics in science.
42.4 Madam President, in the field of culture our priority is sustainable care for the cultural heritage, including the  intangible heritage, and support for cultural diversity and intercultural dialogue. With regard to the current situation in the  discussions on the draft declaration of principles relating to cultural objects displaced in connection with the Second  World War, we firmly believe that a consensus is necessary. UNESCO needs a document that would put a full stop to the  consequences of the Second World War. However, we are also convinced that readdressing past wrongs should not  cause new ones. The cultural heritage naturally includes urban landscapes. We welcome the fact that UNESCO will start  work on a new recommendation concerning the conservation of historic urban landscapes, which should include  principles for finding practical solutions to the conflict situations that may arise from the commitment to conserve urban  landscapes, and from the requirements of new urban development.
42.5 Finally, Madam President, the Czech Republic intends to continue working on the key goals of UNESCO. They  are based on the recognition of human rights, which is a concept our Organization was founded up on and which  continues to be valuable in today’s world. I come from a country that recovered human rights and human dignity 20 years  ago, and I am really happy to be able to say this here, at UNESCO House. Thank you for your attention.
43. The President:  Thank you, Your Excellency. Our next speaker is His Excellency Mr Ram Chandra Prasad Kushwaha, Minister  of Education of Nepal.
44.1 Mr Kushwaha (Nepal):  Madam President, Mr Chair of the Executive Board, Mr Director-General, Your Excellencies, distinguished  delegates, ladies and gentlemen, it is my great pleasure to be here representing the Democratic Federal Republic of  Nepal. My delegation brings warm wishes for the great success of this General Conference. On behalf of my delegation  and myself, I congratulate Mr Hepburn on his election to preside over this session. Similarly, I would like to congratulate  the new Director-General for her nomination. At the same time, my heartfelt gratitude goes to the outgoing Director- General for his excellent performance during his 10 years tenure. I would also like to express our sincere gratitude to the  Members and Chair of the Executive Board for their cooperation and support during the tenure of Nepal on the Executive  Board.
44.2 Madam President, we have arranged many conventions and made many recommendations for the safeguarding  of our rights, cultures and achievement. Despite all our efforts, our achievement levels are still not high enough to  address the needs and rights of our people. In addition, we have been encountering a number of new problems and  challenges such as climate change and natural disasters, food insecurity, illiteracy, H1N1 influenza, HIV/AIDS and so on.  I feel that it is time to work together more effectively and efficiently to tackle these global problems. Similarly, we have  arranged five major global gatherings on education and have made many recommendations. In this regard, what I would  like to request this august gathering is that the developed Member States increase their cooperation with developing  countries, mainly countries in political transition, in order to address the new educational challenges. Madam President,  UNESCO has been playing a lead role in its fields of competence. All Member States, including Nepal, have been  benefiting from the policy guidelines, technical support and capacity-building opportunities and networking of UNESCO.  However, the countries in conflict or post-conflict situations are still in need of significant support in terms of programmes  and opportunities.
44.3 Madam President, our cultural heritage is the property of our future generations and prominent “cash crops” for  our development activities. UNESCO should further focus its programmes on empowering host Member States to  generate funds for the sustainable use of the cultural heritage. In this regard also, the capacity-building programmes are  needed for the local level. Madam President, UNESCO’s programmes are, in fact, of high importance and wide coverage.  Its programmes are devoted to the ideals of UNESCO: peace, progress and prosperity in the world. However, UNESCO  should review inter- and intra-communication channels. Most importantly, UNESCO field offices, at the country level,  should work in close cooperation with respective National Commissions. I think the times demand more committed and  collaborative efforts to ensure a peaceful, prosperous and just world. In this connection, I hope the new leadership of  UNESCO can promote UNESCO's ideals in the years to come. Madam President, I would like to assure this grand  gathering that the Government of Nepal is committed to achieving the ideals of UNESCO. Before I conclude, I would  once again like to express our gratitude to all our international development partners for their continued cooperation and  support. Once again, I wish this Conference geat success. Thank you very much for your kind attention.
45. The President:  Thank you, Your Excellency. Our next speaker is Her Excellency Ms Olivia Grange, Minister of Youth, Sports  and Culture of Jamaica.
46.1 Ms Grange (Jamaica):   Madam President, Mr Director-General, delegates, greetings from Jamaica, the land of the fastest man on  Planet Earth. Today, we celebrate history. We have witnessed the election of our first female Director-General and, for  the first time, a Caribbean man presides over the General Conference. As a fellow Caribbean State, I congratulate my  colleague from the Bahamas. I also congratulate the Director-General designate for having shattered the proverbial glass  ceiling. This is a true testament to UNESCO’s pursuit of gender equality at the highest level. I also recognize the  outgoing Director-General for his contribution and commitment to UNESCO’s ideals. As we consider the adoption of a  budget for the next biennium, we must recognize, in a tangible way and within this climate, the critical role of UNESCO in  fulfilling its mandate. As Member States, we must therefore fulfil our obligations in providing the budgetary and  extrabudgetary support which will allow UNESCO to achieve its goals as outlined in the Medium-Term Strategy.  Colleagues, I recognize that you are here because you care. But we must all recognize that it takes cash to care. We  must strengthen action that will address the vulnerable globally, in particular the small island developing States in their  totality. The areas we must address include social intervention, focusing on the particular needs of each region, such as  in the Caribbean, where our boys are at risk in so many ways; intensifying our efforts to achieve universal primary  education by 2015, and the elimination of gender disparities; environmental sustainability, and we need to move quickly  in the drafting of a declaration on ethical principles on climate change; intensifying the fight against HIV/AIDS, malaria  and other diseases; support for youth development programmes geared towards social inclusion; highlighting importance  of culture and the creative industries in wealth creation and poverty alleviation; and the strategic role of ICTs in the  creation of a knowledge-based society, stressing the importance of access to information.
46.2 In spite of the economic challenges, we in Jamaica are playing our part in achieving the Millennium  Development Goals (MDGs). We have intensified our efforts to provide access to quality education through improved
194  infrastructure, the removal of school fees, ensuring compulsory attendance, proper nutrition and educational materials,  the increase in highly trained teachers, and accountability for literacy. In the area of the sciences, Jamaica has  established a National Bioethics Committee and is actively engaged in discussions pertaining to human cloning and  international governance. We applaud the Intergovernmental Oceanographic Commission’s promotion of the sustainable  management of freshwater, ocean and land resources as well as disaster preparedness and mitigation, and we welcome  the steps taken towards the creation of tsunami early warning systems in the region.
46.3 Jamaica was pleased to have hosted UNESCO’s International Congress on Sport for Development and Peace  last year. Jamaica has been blessed with excellent sportsmen and women and internationally renowned cultural icons  that have left and continue to leave their indelible marks on the pages of history. The world is in awe of the record- breaking achievement of Usain Bolt, our triple Olympic gold medallist and triple world record holder. We are equally  proud that we boast some of the fastest women in the world. UNESCO, in recognizing these achievements, has awarded  Usain Bolt and Veronica Campbell-Brown, five-times Olympic medallist, as UNESCO Champions for Sport. Next  Tuesday, Veronica will visit UNESCO Headquarters here in Paris to receive this prestigious award. Jamaica gave the  world a new religion, one of our strongest intangible cultural expressions. We also gave the world reggae music, which  has penetrated all corners of the world, and an international icon in Bob Marley, creator of the song of the millennium,  One Love. Jamaica’s greatest resource still remains its people – their creativity, perseverance and spirit. We remain  deeply committed to the protection and preservation of our cultural heritage and to the building of cultural industries. We  have nominated three sites for our World Heritage Tentative List; we are satisfied with the consensus concerning  preferential treatment for developing countries with regard to the Convention on the Protection and Promotion of the  Diversity of Cultural Expressions. Our underwater cultural heritage is important not only because of the material  treasures that lie at the bottom of the ocean, but because it harbours the remains of our ancestors who were forcefully  taken from the continent of Africa but did not make the shores of Jamaica.
46.4 I reiterate Jamaica’s commitment to the principles, values, ideals and overarching objectives of UNESCO to  which Member States have subscribed. Jamaica gives its full support and cooperation to the incoming Director-General  as we all work together for sustained social and economic development. I thank you, Madam President and distinguished  delegates.
47. The President:  Thank you, Your Excellency. Our next speaker is Her Excellency Ms Rougui Kaba Barry, Deputy Minister of  Youth, Sports and Culture of Guinea.
48.1 Mme Kaba Barry (Guinée) :  Monsieur le Président de la Conférence générale, Monsieur le Président du Conseil exécutif, Monsieur le  Directeur général, Mesdames et Messieurs les chefs de délégation, Mesdames et Messieurs les représentants des  médias, Distingués invités, Mesdames et Messieurs, en prenant la parole aujourd’hui devant les distingués délégués de  notre Conférence générale, je voudrais tout d’abord vous apporter le message de paix, d’amitié et de solidarité du  peuple et du Gouvernement guinéens.
48.2 Il m’est ensuite particulièrement agréable, au nom de la délégation de la République de Guinée ainsi qu’en mon  nom personnel, de féliciter chaleureusement M. Davidson Hepburn pour sa brillante élection à la présidence de cette
35e session de notre Conférence générale. Il ne fait pas de doute qu’en raison de vos brillantes qualités professionnelles,  de vos riches expériences et de votre sens élevé du discernement, vous conduirez nos débats avec la maîtrise et la  sérénité nécessaires au succès de nos travaux. C’est également le moment de rendre un hommage solennel à votre  prédécesseur, dont les éminentes qualités d’homme de culture ont permis de conduire avec brio, lucidité et succès les  travaux de la 34e session de la Conférence générale. Nos sincères félicitations vont aussi au Président du Conseil  exécutif, dont les qualités morales et humaines permettent de diriger avec clairvoyance les travaux de cet important  organe de l’UNESCO.
48.3 C’est enfin avec un réel plaisir que, du haut de cette tribune, nous adressons un hommage sincère et appuyé,  doublé d’une reconnaissance infinie, à M. Koïchiro Matsuura, Directeur général de notre Organisation, dont les efforts et  les heureuses initiatives déployés durant son mandat ont permis de hisser notre Organisation à des sommets lumineux  en parfaite harmonie avec les objectifs de l’Organisation. Je vous transmets le bonjour de vos amis : les enfants de  l’école Koïchiro Matsuura de Conakry. Je voudrais également profiter de cet instant solennel pour adresser, au nom de  ma délégation et du Gouvernement guinéen, mes très vives félicitations à la nouvelle Directrice générale de l’UNESCO,  Mme Irina Gueorguieva Bokova, pour sa brillante désignation à la tête de notre Organisation. Nous sommes d’ores et  déjà persuadés qu’en raison de ses remarquables compétences professionnelles et de sa riche expérience dans le  domaine de la culture et des relations internationales, l’UNESCO connaîtra des succès encore plus éclatants.
48.4 Monsieur le Président, Mesdames et Messieurs, nous préparions une rentrée scolaire pleine de vie et de  bonnes surprises destinées à récompenser les lauréats des examens, ainsi que la grande rencontre d’orientation de
80 000 jeunes d’âge du baccalauréat non admis à préparer le BTS et autres formations, avec une table ronde des  bailleurs de fonds de l’enseignement technique et professionnel organisée avec l’appui de l’UNESCO afin d’en assurer le  financement, conformément à notre plan d’urgence pour l’éducation. Je ne vais pas revenir sur ce que nous avons vécu,  mais je profite de cette opportunité pour  dire combien nous avons besoin d'une consultation urgente de la population  afin de définir notre avenir et celui de nos petits-enfants. Nous avons chacun une dette morale à payer et rien ne peut  empêcher cette épreuve de la vie, mais les enfants guinéens ne veulent plus voir la guerre : ils doivent aller à l'école.  Comme vous le savez, la rénovation du dialogue sous toutes ses formes est plus que nécessaire, sans passion pour nos  morts guinéens de toutes ces dernières années. Je vais mal, mais il faut que j’écrive pour ne pas mourir en silence, sans  vous livrer ma peur de tous ces désaccords qui détruisent la Guinée.
48.5 Mesdames et Messieurs, dans un monde de plus en plus confronté aux défis de tous ordres de la  mondialisation et aux conséquences diverses de la crise financière internationale, la République de Guinée se félicite  des heureuses initiatives prises par l’UNESCO en termes d’appui technique et d’accompagnement structurel et financier  en faveur des pays les moins avancés. Il y a lieu de se féliciter à cet égard de la tenue, du 5 au 8 juillet 2009, à Paris, de  la Conférence mondiale sur l’enseignement supérieur, dont les travaux ont su poser avec pertinence la problématique de  la nécessaire redynamisation de l’enseignement supérieur en Afrique comme facteur d’un développement économique  véritable. En outre, au regard de la pertinence des défis et des enjeux du développement durable, il convient de mettre  un accent tout particulier sur la nécessaire mobilisation des énergies et des ressources en faveur de l’engagement dans  ce domaine. C’est dans cette perspective que la République de Guinée fait du secteur de l’enseignement technique et  professionnel un des axes essentiels de son système éducatif.
48.6 Mesdames et Messieurs, il y a quelques jours, afin de mieux évaluer notre action, nous avons organisé une  opération pédagogique de village vacances avec 400 enseignants devant nous permettre de réfléchir sur le devenir de  l'école guinéenne. Permettez-moi, Mesdames, Messieurs, de vous faire part de notre profonde conviction, à savoir qu'au  regard de la gravité de la crise financière actuelle et de la nécessaire éradication des véritables fléaux que sont  l'analphabétisme, la maladie aggravée par la pandémie du VIH/SIDA, l’intolérance et la dégradation du patrimoine  culturel, entre autres, il est impérieux de procéder à une judicieuse répartition des ressources disponibles.
48.7 Tout en souhaitant plein succès aux travaux de la 35e session de la Conférence générale de l’UNESCO, je  forme le vœu ardent que l’action de l’Organisation s’inscrive dans le sillage des priorités fondamentales des États  membres. Je vous remercie et je présente mes condoléances au peuple de Guinée et à tous ses enfants. Merci.
49. The President:  Thank you, Your Excellency. Our next speaker is His Excellency Mr Fasli Jalal, Deputy Minister of Education of  Indonesia.
50.1 Mr Jalal (Indonesia):  Madam President, distinguished delegates, ladies and gentlemen. As-salāmu ‘alaikum wa-rahmatu llāhi wa- barakātuh (Peace and the mercy and blessings of God be upon you). First of all, I would like to express the Indonesian  Government’s profound appreciation to Mr Matsuura for his unremitting efforts and initiatives to reform UNESCO to  promote more clear priorities and programmes, with measurable results, in the past 10 years. Such achievements and  accomplishments would be an exemplary benchmark for the new Director-General to continue and a platform to set new  targets for the future. The Indonesian Government also would like to congratulate Madam Irina Bokova on her election as  the new Director-General of UNESCO, and wishes her success in moving UNESCO forward. We assure her of  Indonesia’s close cooperation in achieving our goals.
50.2 Indonesia emphasizes the importance of basic education as a fundamental human right, as we have stated in  the Jakarta Declaration. The Government of Indonesia is strongly committed to achieving universal basic education for  all and have set in place a strong legal framework through our Constitution to assure priority funding for education.  Despite the world economic crisis, Indonesia maintains its education budget as a high priority and continues increasing  the funding allocation to further improve education at all levels. Given the sheer size and wide spectrum of diversity of  our country, covering three time zones, with close to 240 million people living on thousands of islands and speaking no  fewer than 700 languages and dialects, groundbreaking programmes have been developed to provide inclusive  education for all. Those programmes include the use of ICTs to reach remote places, free e-books for all students,  equivalency programmes through community learning centres incorporating life skills training and direct funding support  for schools on a massive scale. The new law on teachers and lecturers has significantly improved the profession, putting  it in a respectable position in society, while improving teaching quality, professionalism and welfare for 2.8 million  teachers and around 150,000 lecturers as the spearhead of education quality improvement. Through a strong  commitment, and those continuous efforts, Indonesia is on the right track for most of the education for all (EFA)  indicators.
50.3 Even though efforts to sustain the planet are a steep climb, Indonesia’s commitment to sustainable development  is unwavering. The thirteenth United Nations Conference on Climate Change in Bali not only brought the Kyoto Protocol  back on track but also established the Bali Road Map for negotiations to strengthening the United Nations climate  change regime beyond the initial commitments of the Kyoto Protocol. This has been seen by many as a very successful  Conference on such a difficult issue. More recently, the World Ocean Conference held in Manado emphasized the  importance of marine ecosystems in sustaining the planet and slowing down the climate change. The Manado  Declaration has called for international collaboration and encouraged the United Nations Secretary-General to facilitate  and coordinate United Nations system to conserve and sustainably manage the ocean for the welfare of our society and  our planet. Given its unique geographical location and geology condition, Indonesia is vulnerable to natural disasters. To  manage and reduce the impact of natural disasters, we have played an active role in establishing the Indian Ocean  Tsunami Warning System. Indonesia has also established a national framework for disaster mitigation in line with the  Hyogo Framework for Action. On 13 September, we experienced a major earthquake disaster in West Sumatra. On  behalf of the Government of Indonesia, I would like to express thanks for the condolences, sympathy and help provided  by many countries and international organizations.
50.4 Blessed with rich biodiversity, which is also reflected in our cultural diversity and religious plurality, Indonesia  has many examples of cultural heritage that we conserve, revitalize and maintain not only for our future generations but  also as a gift for the world. We value local wisdom through the preservation of the tangible and intangible culture and  traditions now still very much alive in the more than 300 ethnic groups living in Indonesia, and we strengthen inclusive  religious values. Indonesia very much appreciates UNESCO’s efforts to protect the cultural heritage in adopting the
196  Convention for the Safeguarding of the Intangible Cultural Heritage in 2003, which stressed the equal dignity of cultures,  thus serving as a major step to counter the negative impact of the globalization process on cultures and cultural  uniformity. In this respect, we would like to thank UNESCO and the Intergovernmental Committee for inscribing  Indonesian Batik on the Representative List of the Intangible Cultural Heritage of Humanity, after having listed the  Indonesian Keris and the Wayang Puppet Theatre as Masterpieces of the Oral and Intangible Heritage of Humanity.
50.5 UNESCO has done a great deal of work and, I believe, still has a lot more to do with too little resources. We  appreciate the achievement of programme concentration formulated in the Programme. We hope to see UNESCO  programmes becoming more holistic and integrated at the country level in order to provide assistance to its Member  States in the implementation of the recommendations adopted at UNESCO conferences. Together we can face the  challenges of today and the future, and can achieve the objectives of creating a peaceful world and sustained  development for all through education, dialogue, mutual respect and understanding. Thank you.
51. The President:  Thank you, Your Excellency. Our next speaker is Her Excellency Ms Lisbet Rugtvedt, Deputy Minister of  Education of Norway.
52.1 Ms Rugtvedt (Norway):   Madam President, Your Excellencies, distinguished delegates, with five years left to reach the Millennium  Development Goals we are not on track. We are facing severe challenges, especially with regard to climate change and  poverty. We need global action now from the United Nations. A strong UNESCO is necessary to facilitate the  development of much needed normative instruments to guide our handling of global issues; and flowing from UNESCO's  normative function, the Organization must further refine its ability and capacity to assist Member States in their  development and implementation of policies that are in line with commonly agreed norms.
52.2 Education for all (EFA) is UNESCO’s number one priority. Many more children are in school now than when the  EFA goals were agreed upon in Dakar in 2000. But still, millions of children, and especially girls, are not in school.  Almost 800 million adults, two-thirds of them women, cannot read and write. This is an unacceptable situation in 2009.  UNESCO must work, together with the other convening agencies and relevant organizations, to ensure that education for  all becomes a reality. We need to work holistically with education. While basic education must be the priority in order to  ensure that no child is left out, basic education must be developed in the context of an education system that also  includes sound early childhood care and education, secondary education, technical and vocational education and higher  education. Quality should be the guiding principle for education. Quality teacher training is perhaps the most important  prerequisite for solid basic education.
52.3 Science and technology are highly important for sustainable, social and economic development. UNESCO’s  activities in the science area are fragmented. UNESCO should do less, but better, in the field of science. We note with  interest the reports on increased demand from Member States for science policy advice from UNESCO.
52.4 UNESCO is facing demanding challenges in the Culture Sector. Support to Member States in their  implementation of the many culture conventions implies a heavy workload for the Secretariat, especially since  implementation of some of the conventions is in an initial phase. Extrabudgetary means can only be a temporary solution.  Given the budgetary framework during the coming years, we would suggest that conventions are given higher priority  within the cultural programme. Freedom of expression is a fundamental human right. Freedom of expression and free,  independent and pluralistic media are building blocks in UNESCO's inclusive knowledge societies. However, in many  countries this fundamental right is still threatened. Recently, anti-terrorism legislation has had consequences for freedom  of expression and information. Safe journalists and free and independent journalism are crucial for the development of  democracy. Over the past 10 years more than 1,000 journalists and media staff have been killed. UNESCO should,  therefore, strengthen its work for journalists’ safety and press freedom.
52.4 Madam President, document 35 C/5 is more focused than the previous Programme and Budget, but still not  focused and results-oriented enough. There are too many good wishes. The United Nations reform has, and will have,  concrete consequences for UNESCO as well as for other United Nations agencies. Norway is pleased with the Director- General’s proactive engagement. UNESCO must develop its decentralization strategy in line with the “One United  Nations” reform. The main element in a future strategy should be to strengthen UNESCO’s abilities to support Member  States. UNESCO does not need to be involved in both policy development and implementation. If another United Nations  organization is better equipped for implementation, UNESCO should leave it to them, but keep track of results in order to  establish a “feedback loop”. Norway has high expectations for the proposed evaluation of UNESCO’s ability to deliver.  We want to see UNESCO constantly developing its ability to provide assistance to the Member States most in need. The  terms of reference of the evaluation should be developed with this in mind. The evaluation of UNESCO should give  Member States, not least the Director-General, a solid platform for continued development of UNESCO. Madam  President, Norway welcomes the new Director-General, Her Excellency Irina Bokova, to be elected on 15 October. As a  dedicated friend of UNESCO, we would like to invite the new Director-General to continue our cooperation. We trust the  new Director-General will be strongly committed to continuing the reforms and to further developing UNESCO's major  capacities. The most important tasks are the normative work, policy formation, policy advice and capacity development.  Thank you.
53.  The President:   Thank you, Your Excellency. Our next speaker is Her Excellency Ms Nerija Putinaitė, Deputy Minister of  Education and Science of Lithuania.
54.1 Ms Putinaitė (Lithuania):   Madam President, Mr Chair of the Executive Board, Mr Director-General of UNESCO, Excellencies, ladies and  gentlemen, I am pleased to be here on this important occasion and to speak on behalf of Lithuania. Lithuania associates  itself with the statement delivered by Sweden on behalf of the European Union. At the outset, I would like to congratulate  the newly-elected President of the General Conference, Mr Hepburn, and to thank the former President of the General  Conference, Ambassador George Anastassopoulos for his devoted work for this Organization. I would also like to thank  Mr Koïchiro Matsuura, the outgoing Director-General of UNESCO. Lithuania greatly appreciates Mr Matsuura’s long-term  engagement and commitment to the Organization, and acknowledges his important work in reforming UNESCO and  integrating it into the United Nations system. On behalf of the Lithuanian Government, please allow me to congratulate  Ambassador Irina Bokova on her nomination as the new Director-General of UNESCO.
54.2 Ladies and gentlemen, UNESCO, as well as the entire United Nations family, is experiencing a challenging time.  The United Nations reform offers a possibility for UNESCO to streamline its activities and to pay more attention to the  areas that can provide us with clear added value. In the context of the present financial and economic crisis, we wish to  acknowledge and commend UNESCO’s commitment to pursue internationally agreed development goals. The role of the  Organization, through its intersectoral and interdisciplinary action, has become essential to international cooperation in  the domains of education, science and culture. Sustainable development has become a major social, economic and  political challenge of today’s world. Thus, Lithuania wishes to commend the continued commitment of the Organization  towards the education for sustainable development (ESD), and to encourage its leadership role in implementing the  programme of the United Nations Decade of Education for Sustainable Development (2005-2014). The cycle of world  conferences and regional events on education has provided us with strong messages on large-scale educational needs.  Therefore, we encourage UNESCO to develop a holistic vision of education. More emphasis should be put on higher  education, which is essential to the development of EFA and ESD.
54.3 We wish to acknowledge the role of UNESCO in providing us with scientific know-how for sustainable living. A  better balance, however, between support for scientific research and scientific policies could be reached in both science- related major programmes through more in-depth pursuance of a results-based approach. The mandate of UNESCO as  an ethical watchdog is becoming crucial in the light of recent scientific developments and their far-reaching implications  for society, as well as global ecological concerns. Therefore, we would like to express our appreciation for the work done  by UNESCO, particularly the World Commission on the Ethics of Scientific Knowledge and Technology (COMEST),  which prepared the recommendation to develop an ethical framework related to climate change. UNESCO, having the  interdisciplinary potential and experience in drafting international standard-setting instruments, is in the right position to  promote and guide this process.
54.4 Ladies and gentlemen, culture plays a fundamental role in development strategies. Therefore, having an  essential link with sustainable development, it should be maintained and promoted in UNESCO activities. Moreover, it  has the potential to increase UNESCO visibility. The World Heritage Convention and its operational guidelines for  implementation play an essential role in UNESCO’s dedication to, and continuing involvement in, the preservation of the  cultural and natural heritage. Safeguarding the heritage is of crucial importance, especially for countries experiencing  significant economic changes. We would also like to underline our concern that arts education is not given proper  attention in UNESCO’s activities. Given the important contribution that arts education can offer to all areas of society,  UNESCO should identify the arts and education as one of its major cross-cutting strategies, linking it to related areas  such as education for all and education for sustainable development.
54.5 Lithuania supports the Organization’s activities in capacity-building for universal access to information and  knowledge. Strengthening the institutional capacities of media and journalism training institutions should be one of the  priorities in this area. Much has been done but much still remains to be achieved to enhance the Information for All  Programme (IFAP), especially in terms of information accessibility and promoting the availability of diverse and  multilingual content. Strengthening the role of libraries and archives as key institutions in sharing information and building  society’s knowledge is of major importance. We take this opportunity to thank the Director-General for the recent  inclusion of “The Baltic Way – Human Chain Linking Three States in Their Drive for Freedom”, nominated by the three  Baltic States, in the Memory of the World Register. Finally, I would like to express my country’s support for the  Organization in these challenging times. Thank you for your attention.
55. The President:  Thank you, Your Excellency. Our next speaker is His Excellency Mr Imangali Ta Tasmagambetov, Chairperson  of the Kazakhstan National Commission for UNESCO.
(56.1) Mr Tasmagambekov (Kazakhstan) (translation from the Russian):   Esteemed Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. In addition to discussing urgent issues, the 35th session of the  General Conference is marked by the elections of the new leadership of the Organization. I should therefore like first of all to  congratulate Mr Davidson Hepburn on his election as President of the 35th session of the General Conference of UNESCO. If  you will permit, I should also like to thank Mr Koïchiro Matsuura for his 10 years of activity in the cause of the global  development of education, science and culture. In him we have always found practical support for our initiatives. Thanks to the  interest he showed, there are now two cultural heritage sites and one natural heritage site in Kazakhstan which are recognized  by UNESCO. Such are the practical results of our cooperation. At the same time, I would like to congratulate Ms Irina Bokova  on her nomination as candidate for the most important and responsible post of Director-General of UNESCO and voice the  hope that the best traditions of our close cooperation will not only be maintained but will receive further impetus.
(56.2) The strengthening of the spiritual and ethical component of human development is acquiring ever-increasing  significance in the modern world against a background of the continued confrontation between representatives of different  religious and ethical communities and social groups, including in the context of the global financial and economic crisis which  is aggravating existing problems. Kazakhstan consistently supports UNESCO’s action with regard to the dialogue between  civilizations. Since 2003 congresses of the leaders of world and traditional religions have been held in our country, on the  initiative of the President of Kazakhstan Nursultan Nazarbayev; the third such congress was held in July 2009. This forum has  already created conditions for dialogue between representatives of world and traditional religions and is directed towards  achieving better understanding between religions, cultures and civilizations. One milestone in this process was the meeting of  ministers of foreign affairs of Muslim and Western countries, which was held in Kazakhstan in December of last year. The  meeting’s final declaration confirms that information and education are key factors in eliminating prejudice towards different
199  cultures, and contains an appeal to encourage the study and teaching of the history of civilizations. We are pleased to note  that other countries are also actively organizing similar activities and that the move to support the dialogue between  civilizations is gathering force. In this connection I should like to point out that Kazakhstan had the honour of assisting at the  inception of the major international initiative to proclaim 2010 as International Year for the Rapprochement of Cultures. We call  on all countries of the world and international organizations to actively contribute to achieving the goal of this Year, the  encouragement of interfaith and intercultural dialogue, tolerance, mutual understanding and cooperation, and the elimination of  xenophobia and discrimination. The resolution adopted by the United Nations on the proposal of UNESCO to celebrate this  Year clearly indicates the great authority and potential of our Organization in relation to the strengthening of peace and mutual  understanding.
(56.3) UNESCO’s most important mission is to work out effective answers to the current problems of education. In this  context, investment in education at present constitutes a stimulus not only for leading our economy out of the crisis but also for  achieving higher rates of growth in the future and, in the longer term, it will be a factor of stability worldwide. We note with  pleasure the results of the World Conference on Higher Education, held in June 2009 in Paris. In this connection, Kazakhstan  is in favour of eliminating educational barriers between countries by stepping up regional and international cooperation with  regard to the recognition of diplomas and degrees; ensuring quality education and developing multilateral science projects.  Fundamental importance is attached to inclusive quality education, enabling inequalities with regard to access to be reduced;  improved funding for education through the allocation of not less than 15 to 20% of State expenditure, recruitment, training,  assignment, the establishment of proper working conditions and incentives for teachers.
(56.4) In the field of science, we are pleased to note the priority accorded by UNESCO to freshwater resources; sound  investment there helps to reduce poverty and contributes to sustainable development. Given the increasing shortage of water,  this is extremely important, and Kazakhstan calls on all countries to increase international cooperation in this area, including  therein the good-neighbourly management of transborder water resources. The growing competition for water will, in the near  future, transform the shortage of water resources into a political problem. UNESCO should facilitate the resolution of conflict  situations by increasing the level of scientific knowledge and promoting generally accepted ethical standards.
(56.5) In the field of communication and information, we actively support the priority of promoting freedom of expression  and the creation of potential for universal access to information and knowledge as the basis for the construction of the  knowledge society. Kazakhstan considers that it is its duty to contribute to the achievement of these goals not only in  UNESCO but also in other international organizations, in particular in the Chairmanship of the Organization for Security and  Cooperation in Europe in 2010.
(56.6) Returning to the theme of culture, I should like to emphasize that one of the paths to mutual understanding is the  preservation of cultural diversity. This task can only be successfully carried out with the simultaneous strengthening of  harmony between cultures. We therefore support the recommendations of UNESCO’s world report on cultural diversity which  call for the development of appropriate pedagogical approaches and the boosting of potential in the area of intercultural  cooperation. Thank you for your attention.
57. The President:  Thank you, Your Excellency. Our next speaker is His Excellency Mr Karomatullo Olimov, Chairperson of the  Tajikistan National Commission for UNESCO.
(58.1) Mr Olimov (Tajikistan) (translation from the Russian):   Esteemed President, esteemed ladies and gentlemen, permit me, on behalf of the delegation of Tajikistan to express  our gratitude to the Secretariat, to all our friends at UNESCO, especially Mr Koïchiro Matsuura for the huge amount of  constructive work he has done in the Organization and for coordinating the action of all its Member States. Over many years  he has worked to increase UNESCO’s prestige and, in this connection, I wish to express our great gratitude. We also  congratulate Ms Irina Bokova, and all women, on her election to the post of Director-General of UNESCO and we hope that  she will augment the best traditions of UNESCO. Our great poet and fighter for peace Mirzo Turzun-Zade, whose 100th  anniversary in 2011 has been proposed for inclusion in UNESCO’s list of anniversary dates, would truly have been delighted  at the election of a woman to such a high international post, since his entire work is dedicated to praise of women and their  pure love. Please allow me to congratulate Mr Davidson Hepburn on his election to the post of President of the General  Conference and to wish him success.
(58.2) Esteemed delegates, UNESCO’s links with Tajikistan have increased considerably in recent years for which we are  grateful to its leadership and staff who have contributed to this. The research conducted by UNESCO with Tajik scientists and  the implementation of projects on the Tajik national park, the ancient city of Sarazm and the ancient centre of Buddhist culture  in central Tajikistan Ajina-tepe not only have value as research but are also of enormous significance for the implementation of  UNESCO’s policy in the fields of science and culture. Their findings point to the similarity, and in certain cases the identity, of  the social and cultural traditions of the peoples of Central Asia. In other words, research conducted with the direct participation  of UNESCO or with its active support provides convincing arguments against the manifestation of any kind of isolationism or  the creation of artificial barriers, as alternative forms of civilizational relations between States and peoples.
(58.3) Esteemed President, Tajikistan as a democratic, secular State views the sphere of education as a vital factor  contributing to the socio-economic development of the country, the preservation of the language and cultural values of our  people as an important component of national progress. By a decree of the President of the Republic of Tajikistan Emomali  Rakhmon, 2010 has been proclaimed Year of Education and Technical Knowledge, coinciding with the Year of Science and  Innovations in the CIS countries. We believe that the sphere of education, as the basis for the formation of a tolerant mindset  in young people in cultural and civilizational matters, must be considered, as in the past, to be one of the priority lines of  emphasis of UNESCO’s action.
(58.4) Dear Conference participants, the development goals formulated in the United Nations Millennium Declaration are  the establishment and improvement of the social and economic infrastructure guaranteeing the ability of States to meet the  vital needs of their citizens, without which there can be no talk of stability in society or rights for its citizens. In endeavouring to  meet these goals UNESCO has performed a great deal of work and is continuing to do so. Tajikistan, as a mountainous  country and a source of a colossal hydropower potential of more than 527 billion KW/hr of electric power, at present uses only
5%. In practical terms, considerable difficulties were experienced over the last two decades during a prolonged cold period,  which were gradually overcome as a result of the measures taken. However, these difficulties still pose a threat to social and  economic stability. There is no need to demonstrate that Tajikistan’s hydropower has not been developed for the purpose of  water consumption since the country has no land resources requiring irrigation. The hydropower projects completed in  Tajikistan are intended to solve the country’s energy crisis. There is therefore no reason to dramatize the situation regarding  these projects: the discussion should focus on other worrying phenomena such as global warming, the reduction in the volume
201  of icebergs and natural disasters, which requires considerable material and financial resources, including from Tajikistan, to  deal with their consequences.
(58.5) Esteemed delegates, the issue of the preservation of the cultural heritage, which is one of the priority lines of  emphasis of UNESCO, is of great significance at present. In Tajikistan, conditions are being established, in accordance with  UNESCO’s ideals, for the preservation of cultural diversity and the raising of national awareness. In spite of extremist religious  slogans, the country’s leadership and the overwhelming majority of the population of Tajikistan appreciate the significance and  role of permanent Islamic values which constitute the most important part of the spiritual heritage of Muslim peoples. On this  basis, we work with all countries of the world, and particularly with Muslim countries with which we have much in common in  the areas of culture, religion, language and history. In Dushanbe recently, an international symposium was held on the  initiative of the President of the Republic to mark the 1310th anniversary of the birth of Imam Abu Hanifa whose teachings  played an important role in the establishment of tolerant relations within Islam and between different confessions. It is  gratifying that over 500 scholars and guests from more than 50 countries rated that initiative highly and its role in the dialogue  between civilizations.
(58.6) In conclusion, I would like to express the hope that UNESCO will continue to be the most important international  organization of the day and, through educational processes, scientific-research mechanisms, the promotion of dialogue and  cultural exchanges, will contribute to the progress of humanity along the path of peaceful development and fulfilment, thus  steering the processes of globalization in the direction of cooperation and creation. Thank you for your attention.
59. The President:  Thank you, Your Excellency. Our next speaker is His Excellency Mr Dwight Alexander, Chairperson of the Palau  National Commission for UNESCO.
60.1 Mr Alexander (Palau):  May Almighty God and the Lord Jesus Christ bless us all. Madam President, Mr Director-General, Mr Chair of  the Executive Board, Excellencies, ladies and gentlemen, I bring you greetings from the small and remote island of Palau.  Madam President, my country believes that education opens doors of opportunities and paves the way for human  development. Thus we attach a high priority to education. In gathering data for the assessment of education for all (EFA),  we have noted great progress in our region, particularly my country. With the assistance of UNESCO, we have launched  a capacity-building initiative to develop the skills of our school administrators, teacher trainers and teachers. Palau is still  working on the inclusiveness and quality desired for our children. We trust that with your continued support, we can  achieve that goal. Similarly, the United Nations Decade of Education for Sustainable Development (2005-2014) plays a  key role in understanding our resources and how to ensure their sustainability. This is key to the survival of small islands.  We are expanding learning to include adult education, vocational training, acceptance of non-formal training programmes  and the integration of information and communication technologies (ICTs).
60.2 Madam President, my country strongly supports scientific research on climate change, oceanography and  renewable energies. The small islands are on the frontline of the battle on these matters as we witness the changes in  our environment, climate and even our way of life. The shorelines are encroaching on our villages and farms. Our reefs  and main source of food are being affected by coral bleaching and changes in the spawning seasons and migration of  fish. We also blame climate change for the frequency of natural disasters and offer our sympathies to our colleagues and  friends in Samoa, Tonga, the Philippines, American Samoa, India and Indonesia, who suffered great losses in the recent  wave of earthquakes, tsunamis and hurricanes. Madam President, the cost of energy and the economic crisis are driving  small countries with limited resources to the brink of bankruptcy. If the small countries are to survive, alternative sources  of energy must be sought. We invite UNESCO to take the lead in seeking solutions, formulating country responses and  developing mitigation plans. The United Nations “Delivering as One” initiative could be an effective tool in coordinating all  agencies to address these pressing issues related to climate change.
60.3 Madam President, while we are yet to ratify the Convention for the Safeguarding of the Intangible Cultural  Heritage, we support it as much as we do the World Heritage Convention. Palau is a multicultural and multifaith society.  There is indeed beauty in diversity in cultures, yet we live in harmony and peace, maintaining and practicing our unique  cultures. We plead with the rest of the world, all religions and cultures, to build acceptance through interfaith and  intercultural dialogue. It is an avenue where the most troubled countries of the world can achieve peace and prosperity  for their people. We support UNESCO’s leading role in organizing forums that encourage such dialogue. Madam  President, Palau was the first to have a biosphere reserve in the Pacific and we are doubling our efforts for the inscription  of sites on the World Heritage List. We are grateful for the efforts and support we have received in these important  initiatives. However, the work is still great and we must continue to rely on the Organization’s continued support. Thus,  we welcome UNESCO's efforts to establish the Pacific World Heritage fund. Madam President, Palau, although small,  has made contributions to the health and well-being of the world in many different ways. Palau has initiated The  Micronesian Challenge, where it challenges the small island States to set aside 20% of their terrestrial – and up to 30%  of their marine – environment for conservation and preservation. The objective is to ensure the survival of the  ecosystems of the islands in the wave of development. Our President has declared Palau, at the recent session of the  United Nations General Assembly, the first shark sanctuary in the world. This is to ensure the survival of this unique  species in the face of commercial exploitation. Palau has also proposed the creation of an organization of tuna-exporting  countries to ensure the sustainability of tuna stocks.
60.4 Madam President, coming from a region where men wear skirts, literally speaking, many of our societies are  matrilineal societies where women have traditionally held key roles in the development of our communities. Palau has  more women at all levels of government and in all fields of expertise. We are actually starting to feel that perhaps it is the  men who are marginalized. Our gender policies fulfil one of the Millennium Development Goals: to empower women. It is  in this spirit that Palau offers its congratulations to the Director-General designate of UNESCO, in line with our  forefathers’ knowledge that women possess understanding, wise discernment and sound decisions. We are most
202  pleased that, according to her recent statement, small island developing States will remain a key priority in her reforms.  To witness first-hand the small island developing States, we invite her to visit us in the Pacific. We must also pay special  tribute to the current Director-General for his contributions to the enhancement of the work of the Organization. He was  instrumental in ensuring that the needs of the small island developing States were reflected in the Medium-Term Strategy.  Further, he provided a great deal of assistance to, and paved the way for many initiatives in, the small island developing  States. Please know, Mr Director-General, that you have left an impression on our hearts that will not be forgotten. Thank  you, Madam President.
61. The President:   Thank you, Your Excellency. Our next speaker is His Excellency Mr Peter Landymore, Ambassador and  Permanent Delegate of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland to UNESCO.
62.1 Mr Landymore (United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland):  Madam President, Mr Director-General, Excellencies, fellow delegates, may I first associate myself fully with the  statement made yesterday by the distinguished representative of Sweden on behalf of the Member States of the  European Union.
62.2 I wish to begin by paying tribute to the achievements of the outgoing Director-General, Mr Matsuura. Under his  leadership, UNESCO has made considerable progress in recovering its relevance to the challenges facing the world  today. He has undertaken difficult but essential reforms in renovating the Organization's staffing, in improving the  balance between Headquarters and field offices, in a better concentration of effort on major priorities and in taking the  first steps in results-based management. There is no doubt that he leaves UNESCO a better, more efficient and more  effective organization than he found it. The United Kingdom also welcomes the nomination of Ms Irina Bokova to be the  next Director-General. It is particularly pleasing to note that she will be its first female Director-General, as well as its first  from the Eastern European countries, and this as we approach November's 20th anniversary of the fall of the Berlin Wall.  We are confident that she will continue the reform effort with renewed energy, especially regarding the concentration of  effort and improving the quality and flexibility of staffing. We hope she will continue Mr Matsuura's emphasis on  UNESCO's role in the global effort to achieve the Millennium Development Goals (MDGs).
62.3 The Director-General and the Executive Board have recommended to this Conference an increase in  UNESCO's budget of 3.5% for the next two years. In the current economic and fiscal situation, this is no small increase.  The United Kingdom accepts this in the interest of consensus. But we will look hard at future proposals. Our official  development aid continues to rise rapidly, and we are on course to achieve the 0.7% of GDP target in four years. But  priority for our aid goes to the poorest countries, and to the poorest people in those countries. We will be looking to  reward those agencies which can show clear gains in effectiveness and efficiency in delivering for development. In this  context, the fact that programmes still receive less than half of UNESCO's budget resources remains a major concern for  the United Kingdom. We will be looking for significant progress in the next two years to reduce the over-large fraction of  the budget absorbed by administration or other non-programme activities. Mr Matsuura spoke on Tuesday of his struggle  to focus UNESCO's efforts on fewer, larger-scale programmes where UNESCO has a clear global lead and can make a  real difference. This is the right approach. Member States must help by refraining from promoting minor, small-scale,  initiatives every six months. UNESCO needs the help and support of its General Conference and Executive Board. In  particular, they must leave room for the Director-General to shape the work of UNESCO to the requirements of countries'  own development plans. The British Government believes that UNESCO, and the United Nations more broadly, should  work above all in the service of the developing countries, and especially the poorest among these. We strongly support  UNESCO's priority for Africa, and we want to see this more effectively demonstrated in practice. Hence our equally  strong support for the United Nations “Delivering as One”: unifying United Nations Funds, programmes and agencies at  country level into single programmes, established by the country's own government, and under one management. It is  important, therefore, for new proposals on decentralization to look primarily to deploy UNESCO staff in United Nations  country teams, and not to operate separate UNESCO country offices except in the most exceptional circumstances.
62.4 The British Government believes also that the achievement of the education-related MDGs, and the wider  education for all (EFA) goals, is one of the most important tasks facing the world. Britain is spending $16 billion between
2006 and 2015 to promote their achievement in the poorest countries. This must remain the top priority for UNESCO,  truly its flagship programme. UNESCO should be the loudest advocate of EFA, should celebrate the progress of those  countries which achieve it, and should draw attention to those where the needs are not matched by sufficient policy  dynamism, internal and external resources or coordination of aid agencies. We welcome the creation of the new  International Task Force on Teachers for EFA, and salute the EFA Global Monitoring Report as one of the best products  of any international organization. While we also welcome the modest increase in the education programme budget for
2010-2011, we want to see a much more significant redirection of resources towards education in the following 2012-
62.5 Madam President, UNESCO has much to be proud of, including in connection with the conservation of the  World's heritage. It is also important that UNESCO's expertise in ensuring that the standards are maintained, together  with the resources, in the next Programme and Budget. I thank you for your attention.
63. The President:   Thank you, Your Excellency. Our next speaker is Mr Saïd Hagi Mohamud Farah, Ambassador and Permanent  Delegate of Somalia to UNESCO.
(64.1) Mr Farah (Somalia) (translation from the Arabic):   President of the General Conference, Chairman of the Executive Board, Director-General of UNESCO, ministers and  heads of delegations, ladies and gentlemen, first of all I should like to extend warm congratulations to Ambassador Davidson  Hepburn on his unanimous election as President of the 35th session of the General Conference. We all have confidence in the  experience, culture and wisdom of our new President and I am certain that he will steer the proceedings of the General  Conference successfully toward the desired goal. I should also like to salute his country, the Bahamas, toward which I harbour  great affection and appreciation for sending us this wise man to guide our proceedings. Furthermore, I should to thank his  predecessor, Mr George N. Anastassopoulos, and commend his efforts and gargantuan activity since his election as President  of the General Conference at its last session. I should also like to congratulate Mme Irina Bokova on her election as Director- General of UNESCO and to welcome the enlightened initiative of electing, for the first time, a woman as Director-General of  UNESCO. I am absolutely confident that Mme Bokova will fully continue the reforms and victories of her predecessor,  Mr Koïchiro Matsuura. I should also like to salute Mr Joseph Olabiyi Babalola Yaï, my dear friend and Chairman of the  Executive Board who, during his chairmanship thereof, never tired in his efforts, self sacrifice and admirable work to achieve  the Organization’s goals. Similarly, I should like to extend my government’s gratitude and appreciation of to Mr Koïchiro  Matsuura, Director-General of UNESCO, for his tireless work in all pf UNESCO’s areas of competence, his devoted efforts and  his proactive role in running our Organization during his term of office. When I recall his successive field visits to Member  States, I remember that the Director-General had wished to visit Somalia but, regretfully, we were unable to arrange a visit for  security reasons. However, there is no doubt that, as he leaves UNESCO for another position, he will leave it in a more  credible and respected position.
(64.2) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, once more I stand before you to remind the conference that Somalia believes in  the principles and moral values of UNESCO, holding it to be our duty, as we now live in one village, to enjoy solidarity and  brotherhood. The challenges we face are: to eradicate illiteracy, fight against hunger, provide quality education for all, ensure  public access to information, develop information societies and appreciate ethical considerations in the fields of science,  technology and research, affirm the importance of cultural diversity, which is seen as enriching communication and the  exchange of ideas between peoples, conserve the environment and protect the material and non-material heritage. This is  what we in Somalia believe in and this is the mission of UNESCO, in which we take pride.
(64.3) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, once again I stand before you to remind you of the tragic conditions in Somalia.  The war is still going on 20 years after it ended and still killing, destroying and dispossessing, not only in Mogadishu but also in  Kismayo and other regions in the north of the country. The years pass, with one year the same as another for Somali men,  women, children and old people in an endless war of destruction, homelessness, death and emigration.
(64.4) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we were optimistic after the Djibouti conference at the beginning of the year  ended positively and hoped that the Transitional Federal Government, formed after the Reconciliation Conference from a  broad coalition of most of the Somali political currents and representatives of the provinces, would be established. However,  the war continued only this time it was of a different kind. Opposition factions emerged which fought against the lawfully  elected government. Extremist and fanatical groups lured young men and children into a fanatical struggle for a return to the  age of ignorance, darkness and oppression. These groups proclaim Islam but have nothing to do with Islam. Consequently,  the destruction continues and the young people and children are still without education. We all know that there is no education  and development. There is not even life in peace and security. Peace no longer exists in Somalia, human rights have  disappeared and, after 20 years of war, the people are still in the same position.  (The speaker continues in French)
64.5 Ici, je voudrais présenter mes sincères condoléances aux familles, au peuple et aux autorités burundaises pour  la mort des soldats et officiers de leur pays, assassinés lâchement par des extrémistes à Mogadiscio, le mois dernier.  Nous savons, le peuple somalien et le Gouvernement somalien le savent, que ces soldats étaient venus d'un pays frère ;  ils étaient là pour aider à rétablir la paix, la démocratie dans notre pays. Nous leur sommes reconnaissants.  (L’orateur poursuit en arabe)  א،א٦٤,٦ א،א א א א א א א،א א،א א א א א א.א א א א א،א א אא ، א  א.א א א א א א אא ،.
(64.6) (translation from the Arabic) I must say something about the phenomenon of piracy. It is a product of the situation in  Somalia. Of course, we condemn piracy as a criminal act and my government condemns and rejects this act, which it views as  criminal, and requests assistance in combating the phenomenon. This will not be done by deploying fleets in the ocean but by  assisting the legitimate government and providing it with the means of controlling its land territory and territorial waters. The  solution is to help build a strong State in Somalia and to build schools and education. This is what we need and request from  the international community. I do not have enough time but I want also to remind this esteemed assembly of the tragedies of  the Somali people. Thank you.
65. The President:   Thank you, Your Excellency. Our next speaker is His Excellency Mr Wilibiro Sarko, Ambassador and Permanent  Delegate of the Central African Republic to UNESCO.
66.1 M. Sarko (République centrafricaine) :  Madame la Présidente, Monsieur le Président du Conseil exécutif, Monsieur le Directeur général de l’UNESCO,  Mesdames et Messieurs les ministres et chefs de délégation, Honorables délégués et observateurs, Mesdames et  Messieurs, c’est pour moi un réel plaisir et un grand honneur d’associer ma voix à celle des orateurs qui m’ont précédé  pour présenter à Son Excellence M. Davidson Hepburn, des Bahamas, au nom du Gouvernement de la République  centrafricaine et de la délégation ici présente, mes vifs compliments pour sa brillante élection à la présidence des  travaux de cette 35e session. La délégation de la République centrafricaine l’assure de son soutien pour que la présente  session de la Conférence générale soit couronnée de succès. Cette session coïncide avec la fin du mandat du Directeur  général, M. Koïchiro Matsuura, et je saisis cette occasion pour saluer les remarquables qualités dont ce grand homme  de culture a fait montre tout au long de ses dix ans d’exercice et qui lui ont permis de diriger l’Organisation avec  charisme et clairvoyance. Les importants résultats obtenus, la créativité et la capacité d’innovation déployés, les qualités  et actions qui ont contribué à consolider les fondements de l’Organisation sont à porter totalement à son crédit.
66.2 C’est le noble idéal de paix de l’Organisation qui a guidé Son Excellence M. François Bozize, Président de la  République, Chef de l’État, à réaliser la réconciliation nationale et le retour à la paix grâce au dialogue politique inclusif  qui a regroupé, en décembre dernier, les Centrafricains représentant toutes les sensibilités et diverses composantes de  la société politique et civile. Aussi, je saisis l’occasion que m’offre cette tribune pour exprimer, au nom du Président de la  République et du gouvernement, la gratitude du peuple centrafricain à tous les États membres qui ont fait montre de  solidarité pendant ces difficiles périodes de crises militaro-politiques que le pays a connues. Afin de consolider les acquis  de cette paix et amorcer le développement socioéconomique, mon pays lance un vibrant appel à la solidarité  internationale en général, et à l’UNESCO en particulier, pour que se poursuivent cet accompagnement et ce soutien.
66.3 Madame la Présidente, Honorables délégués, toujours à la pointe des questionnements essentiels, l’UNESCO  se veut encore plus engagée dans l’action, à travers des programmes et des activités importants. Nombreux sont ses  projets qui séduisent par leur caractère novateur et par l’espoir que nous avons qu’ils permettent d’en finir avec les  conflits, en extirpant les racines du mal, à savoir la pauvreté, les violences et l’analphabétisme.
66.4 En dépit des efforts louables de l’Organisation, il reste beaucoup à faire dans les pays en développement. Mon  pays reste convaincu que l’éducation est le meilleur instrument de valorisation et de promotion des ressources humaines,  le meilleur mode d’approfondissement et de renouvellement de la culture ; elle est le meilleur socle pour  l’épanouissement de l’homme dans un monde en proie à des crises diverses, financières, climatiques et autres, où les  critères d’excellence et de compétitivité tiennent une place de plus en plus grande. L’Initiative de l’UNESCO pour la  formation des enseignants en Afrique subsaharienne (TTISSA), dont mon pays est partie prenante, est à saluer. C’est  pourquoi nos efforts actuels portent essentiellement sur les objectifs définis par le Plan national d’action pour l’Éducation  pour tous (PNA), relayé par la Stratégie nationale du secteur de l’éducation (2008-2020) à travers des actions visant  entre autres, la formation des enseignants et la création des structures nécessaires à la formation du plus grand nombre  possible de jeunes filles et d’adultes. Des mesures ont été prises aux fins de la restructuration de notre système de
205  formation professionnelle, de la création d’un lycée professionnel féminin pour donner encore plus de chances aux  femmes ainsi que de centres d’enseignement technique, et en vue d’une réforme en profondeur de l’enseignement  supérieur et universitaire pour contribuer à un développement durable.
66.5 C’est pourquoi le gouvernement apprécie à sa juste valeur les conclusions d’une étude menée par un consultant  financé par l’UNESCO, mettant en relief les atouts de la République centrafricaine pour se doter d’un plan national pour  le développement scientifique et technologique. Mon pays rend ici, à cet effet, un vibrant hommage à l’Organisation et  espère, pendant le mandat de la nouvelle Directrice générale que nous félicitons déjà pour sa désignation, continuer à  bénéficier de son précieux concours pour disposer de cet instrument indispensable à son développement  socioéconomique. Dans ce cadre, nous exprimons la gratitude du gouvernement à l’UNESCO, qui a bien voulu mettre à  la disposition de la RCA les moyens adéquats qui ont permis l’organisation d’un séminaire sous-régional à Bangui sur le  Programme Mémoire du monde, lequel a mobilisé les États de l’Afrique centrale autour de cette initiative encore peu  connue visant à la protection de nos patrimoines documentaires.
66.6 Concernant le projet 35 C/5 soumis à notre adoption, la RCA se réjouit des innovations introduites. De même,  nous nous félicitons qu’à mi-parcours de la Décennie des Nations Unies pour l’alphabétisation, l’UNESCO ait mis  l’accent, lors de la célébration en avril 2009, de la Semaine mondiale d’action en faveur de l’EPT, sur l’alphabétisation  des jeunes et des adultes.
66.7 La RCA demeure convaincue que, tant que les pays les moins avancés ne bénéficieront pas d’un appui  suffisant de la communauté internationale dans leurs efforts d’éradication de la pauvreté et de l’ignorance, la violence  persistera et la paix dans l’esprit des hommes restera un vœu pieux, qu’il s’agisse de la paix à l’intérieur ou à l’extérieur  des États. Ce combat ne sera gagné que par une forte coordination des synergies. Pour terminer, je voudrais réaffirmer  la foi de la République centrafricaine dans la coopération internationale et dans les idéaux de l’UNESCO, gages d’un  avenir meilleur pour l’humanité. Je vous remercie de votre aimable attention.
67. The President:   Thank you, Your Excellency. Armenia has requested an opportunity to exercise its right of response. You have  the floor.
68.1 Ms Aghajanian (Armenia):  Thank you. Madam President, it is disconcerting for my delegation to see another attempt by Azerbaijan to  politicize this discussion by propagating groundless accusations against my country. The alleged aggression against  Azerbaijan is a mere display of the continued refusal by its Government to recognize the right of the Nagorno-Karabakh  people to self-determination, and to acknowledge the consequences of a large-scale war unleashed by its own  authorities against those peaceful claims in an effort to annihilate the Armenian population of Karabakh. As a result of the  war, tens of thousands perished and huge areas of Nagorno-Karabakh, with centuries-old historic and cultural  monuments, were levelled. The authorities of the Nagorno-Karabakh Republic are currently sparing no effort to rebuild  the country, giving due regard to the preservation of all the monuments found on its territory, including Islamic ones.  However, the same cannot be said about Azerbaijan. Its efforts to do away with Armenians continue unabated. Now that  there are no Armenians left in Azerbaijan, it is religious and cultural monuments which remain under attack. Armenian  cultural and historic heritage hundreds of kilometres away from the former war zone, in Nakhchivan or in the capital,  Baku, has become misappropriated or destroyed, in peace-time. Unfortunately, this assault on the memory, history, holy  places and artistic creations of Armenian people began long before the people of Nagorno-Karabakh stood to demand  self-determination in order to assure their own security. Madam President, Azerbaijan ignores international bodies and  protective mechanisms, proceeding instead in bad faith and with a clear political agenda. It fabricates counter-allegations  to draw attention away from its own internationally condemnable actions. Thank you, Madam President.
69. The President:   Thank you, Your Excellency. We have now come to the end of this eighth plenary meeting and will resume  promptly at 10 a.m. tomorrow morning. The meeting is adjourned.  The meeting rose at 6.55 p.m.  La séance est levée à 18 h 55  Se levanta la sesión a las 18.55  Заседание закрывается в 18.55  א א٦,٥٥א   会议于 18 时 55 分结束