266  Visit by His Excellency Mr Ismaël Omar Guelleh, President of Djibouti, and by His Excellency Sheikh Amani  Abeid Karume, President of Zanzibar, United Republic of Tanzania  Visites de Son Excellence M. Ismaël Omar Guelleh, président de Djibouti, et de Son Excellence Sheikh Amani  Abeid Karume, president de Zanzibar, République-Unie de Tanzanie  Visita del Excmo. Sr. Ismael Omar Guelleh, Presidente de Djibouti, y de Su Excelencia el Jeque Amani Abeid  Karume, Presidente de Zanzíbar (República Unida de Tanzania)  Визит Президента Джибути Его Превосходительства г-на Исмаила Омара Гелле и Президента Занзибара  Его Превосходительства г-на Шейха Амани Абеида Каруме  ، ، א ، ، אא א 吉布提总统 Ismaël Omar Guelleh 先生阁下和坦桑尼亚联合共和国桑给巴尔总统 Sheikh Amani Abeid Karume  阁下来访  His Excellency Mr Ismaël Omar Guelleh, President of Djibouti,  and His Excellency Sheikh Amani Abeid Karume, President of Zanzibar, United Republic of Tanzania  enter Room I and are escorted to their places.
1.1 The President:   Delegates, ladies and gentlemen, thank you very much for your presence here this morning. Indeed it is a  particular honour for us to receive Their Excellencies Mr Ismaël Omar Guelleh, President of Djibouti, and Mr Amani  Abeid Karume, President of Zanzibar, United Republic of Tanzania. Allow me in these special circumstances to say a  few words.
1.2 Excellencies, ladies and gentlemen, after half a century since decolonization, Africa continues to confront an  unprecedented set of new challenges which have now intensified because of a series of crises to which the international  community must holistically respond. Nevertheless, the region continues to progress in the face of adversity and remains  united for the common cause of its people. Together with the leadership of the region, we will not allow the gains of past  efforts to be stalled or stopped. I have the immense pleasure to welcome today to the house of UNESCO two  distinguished leaders from the African continent, His Excellency Mr Ismaël Omar Guelleh, President of Djibouti, and His  Excellency Mr Amani Abeid Karume, President of Zanzibar, United Republic of Tanzania.
1.3 Distinguished delegates, may I first address myself to Mr Karume and extend to you, Sir, on behalf of all  Members of this Organization, my sincere thanks for being with us today. I would like to pay tribute to your country,  Mr President, for its fruitful collaboration with UNESCO, which has grown over the past years, particularly in the areas of  education, science and technology and culture. The development of a new broadcasting policy that will guide Zanzibar  towards a smooth transition from analogue to digital broadcasting by 2015-2020, paving the way for the creation of public  and community broadcasting in the islands, is an excellent illustration of this cooperation. We understand, Mr President,  that this activity may have been close to your heart since you once served as Zanzibar’s Minister of Communication and  Transport earlier in your career. Furthermore, your country is to be commended for the importance it attaches to the  preservation of its natural and cultural heritage. The inscription of the Stone Town of Zanzibar on the UNESCO World  Heritage List in 2000 was a great achievement of which we can all be particularly proud.  (The President continues in French)
1.4 Mesdames et Messieurs, je voudrais maintenant souhaiter la bienvenue à Monsieur Ismaël Omar Guelleh,  Président de la République de Djibouti. La joie de vous recevoir ici aujourd’hui, Monsieur le Président, a été précédée il y  a quelques jours par le réel bonheur de voir Djibouti élu membre du Conseil exécutif de l’UNESCO, où il siégera pour  quatre ans aux côtés de 57 autres États membres.
1.5 Monsieur le Président, votre présence parmi nous aujourd’hui revêt une profonde signification. Au-delà de  l’importance que vous accordez au renforcement de la coopération internationale, elle constitue un témoignage  supplémentaire de votre intérêt pour les idéaux et les actions de l’UNESCO. À cet égard, l’importance particulière que  votre pays attache à la promotion de sa riche diversité culturelle mérite d’être soulignée. Djibouti a en effet été l’un des  premiers États membres à avoir ratifié la Convention sur la protection et la promotion de la diversité des expressions  culturelles. Dans le cadre de sa coopération avec Djibouti, l’UNESCO soutient l’organisation du festival de musique  « Fest horn » qui représente une opportunité unique de promotion et de dialogue culturel dans la région. Je souhaite par  ailleurs rendre hommage, Monsieur le Président, à votre engagement personnel pour la promotion du dialogue et de la  tolérance et aux efforts déployés par votre pays en faveur de la paix et de la stabilité au niveau régional.   (Le Président poursuit en anglais)
1.6 Ladies and gentlemen, it is now my privilege to give the floor to His Excellency Mr Amani Abeid Karume,  President of Zanzibar, United Republic of Tanzania. You have the floor, Sir.  (Applause)
2.1 Mr Karume (President of Zanzibar, United Republic of Tanzania):  Mr President of the General Conference, Mr Chair of the Executive Board, Mr Director-General of UNESCO,  honourable ministers, distinguished delegates, Excellencies, ladies and gentlemen, as-salāmu ‘alaikum wa-rahmatu llāhi  wa-barakātuh (Peace and the mercy and blessings of God be upon you), and good morning. I would like to begin by  expressing my delegation’s grateful appreciation to the Government of France for the warm welcome accorded to us. I
267  would also like to express my gratitude to Mr Koïchiro Matsuura, the Director-General of UNESCO, for the kind invitation  extended to me to address the 35th session of the General Conference of UNESCO, and for the warm reception and  hospitality that I and my delegation have received. I bring with me warm greetings and best wishes from His Excellency  Dr Jakaya Mrisho Kikwete, President of the United Republic of Tanzania, as well as from the Government of Zanzibar  and the people of the United Republic. Mr President, at this juncture let me take this opportunity on behalf of the  Governments of the United Republic of Tanzania and Zanzibar, and on my own behalf, to congratulate Ms Irina Bokova,  the newly elected Director-General of UNESCO. Ms Bokova will go into the history books as the first woman  Director-General to head this Organization since its inception more than 60 years ago. I have no doubt in my mind, given  her excellent track record of achievements, that she will make a good Director-General who will lead this Organization to  rise to the challenges facing humanity in the twenty-first century without compromising the vision and mission of  UNESCO as enshrined in its Constitution. Let me also seize the opportunity to pay tribute to Mr Koïchiro Matsuura, the  outgoing Director-General, who has served this Organization for ten good years. Mr Matsuura will be remembered for his  visionary and committed leadership and for investing a lot of his working time at UNESCO in pursuing the interests of the  Organization and its Member States. He has been a statesman of quality whose friendliness, objectivity of judgment and  genial capacity to understand the point of view of others have contributed greatly to the respect this Organization has  earned in the world. He will also be remembered, among other things, for his special interest in Africa and for his actions  in response to African priorities. On behalf of the Governments of the United Republic of Tanzania and Zanzibar, and on  my own behalf, I wish Mr Matsuura good health and much success in his future achievements.
2.2 Mr President, over the years the United Republic of Tanzania has enjoyed the support of UNESCO in its fields of  competence through upstream policy advice and capacity-building for its institutions and people. Three prominent  universities in Tanzania – namely the University of Dar es Salaam, the Open University of Tanzania and the State  University of Zanzibar – have collaborative relationships with UNESCO. The Open University of Tanzania and the State  University of Zanzibar, established in 1992 and 2000 respectively, had their feasibility studies conducted by UNESCO.  These are but a few examples to illustrate the good and infallible relationship that has existed between UNESCO and the  United Republic of Tanzania. We appreciate that UNESCO continues to assist the United Republic of Tanzania in  various ways, including technical assistance and institutional capacity-building in sector-wide education planning and  capacity-building for implementation of national education plans in the areas of literacy and teacher training, in the  context of the Teacher Training Initiative for Sub-Saharan Africa (TTISSA). Other projects include the Education  Management Information System (EMIS), UNESCO National Education Support Strategies (UNESS) and so on.  UNESCO also conducts science, technology and innovation system reviews, fellowships and training, and media  development within the framework of the International Programme for the Development of Communication (IPDC). I  would like to express my heartfelt appreciation to the Director-General for his assistance and to the Dar es Salaam  UNESCO cluster office, which has been very cooperative in serving us well.
2.3 Mr President, it is paradoxical that in the 1970s the United Republic of Tanzania had attained an adult literacy  rate of 90%. Due to numerous challenges, this dropped to 69.4% in 2006, although it is more positive in Zanzibar where  it stands at over 85%. The United Republic of Tanzania has embarked on a comprehensive education development  programme to improve access and quality of education. With respect to attaining the education for all (EFA) goals, the  United Republic of Tanzania is making good progress, placing it on track to meet both the EFA goals and the Millennium  Development Goals (MDGs) of all children completing primary school by the year 2015. The net enrolment ratio in  primary education in mainland Tanzania stands at 96%, and should reach 100% by the year 2010. It is my happy  privilege to report that Zanzibar has already surpassed the 2015 MDG goal on primary education enrolment. By 2008, we  had recorded close to 100% enrolment. This is one of the most important achievements we have made in the education  sector.
2.4 Mr President, I would also seek your indulgence to share with the respectable delegates here at the General  Conference the path we have followed to reach the target well ahead of time. We have set out and adapted some  specific strategies since 2000 to ensure that we are on track. Among them is the involvement of the people first, in  drawing up a comprehensive education policy, and second, in working out implementation plans within the context of  constituency and world development committees. I wish to thank UNESCO for its contribution towards the preparation of  this policy. Our outlook has been to make education people-oriented and it has worked out well. The people themselves  planned and laid the foundations for the building of their schools. The Government then stepped in to complete  construction, to furnish them and to employ teachers. We have also offered facilities to the private sector to participate in  our education development. Despite our poor economy and the priority needs of social development sectors, such as  health and clean and safe water supply, we have been allocating 18% of the national budget to education, some 4% of  our GDP.
2.5 Mr President, allow me to express the Zanzibar Government’s appreciation to the development partners who  have stood alongside us since 2000 to build strong educational foundations in the country. I would like to mention the  Swedish Government, through SIDA, the Government of the United States of America through USAID, and UNESCO for  their substantial financial and material development support. They have been reliable and trustworthy partners and  friends. At the same time, our educational development initiative has also been supported greatly by other cross-cutting  issues, mainly in health, communication and water supply. Previously, our children’s quest for education was curtailed by  incidences of malaria infection. Now, thanks to the Presidential Malaria Initiative (PMI) of the United States of America,  we have succeeded in reducing malaria to a less than 1% incidence. Learners and teachers are now free of frequent  absences owing to illness. Our success in the mother and child care programme has also enabled us to have an  increasing number of healthy children capable of attending schools. Water-borne diseases also used to bring calamity to  our children and hold back our educational development. With positive progress in clean and safe water supply, about
70% of the population have access to clean water. We are grateful to the African Development Bank, the Government of  Japan and UNICEF.
2.6 Mr President, I have enumerated the above to illustrate the link between education development and other  sectors. The challenge we are now facing is how to scale up post-primary education and technical and vocational training  in order to cater to the greatly increased numbers of students graduating from primary schools. To meet this challenge,  the government is building more classrooms for secondary education, training more teachers and opening vocational  training centres. But addressing access alone is not enough. Access has to be matched with equity, quality and  relevance of education as well as the training of teachers and provision of relevant texts and other teaching and learning  materials. With respect to teachers’ education, some achievements have been made so far. Government and private  teaching’ colleges have increased in the United Republic of Tanzania from 34 in 1995 to 52 in 2005. To cope with the  high demand for higher education, the government has established a new university called the University of Dodoma.  This is the fifth state university to be established in the country, while in Zanzibar there is the State University of Zanzibar.
2.7 Mr  President, the 35th session of the General Conference of UNESCO is taking place at a time when the world  is facing major crises, including global climate change, the energy crisis, the food crisis, and most recently, the financial  and economic crisis. They impact more on poor nations and the most vulnerable groups in society, and the United  Republic of Tanzania, like many countries in the world, has not been spared. The challenge facing us all now is how to  get out of these crises in a world that is so interdependent. It seems to me that now, more than ever before, UNESCO  has a critical role to play in sensitizing governments and the international community to look towards the social sector  and to invest more in education. Therefore, concerted efforts must be made for the attainment of the EFA goals and  education-related MDGs. It is through education and knowledge that the global community can overcome the scourges  of ignorance, eradicate poverty, and pursue a path of sustainable development. My government is aware of the efforts  made by UNESCO in this area, and it gives the Director-General its full support.
2.8 Mr President, humanity continues to make mistakes and is always learning from its mistakes. Due to our  unsustainable pattern of production and consumption, humans have contributed to environmental pollution and global  warming. As a result of global warming, we are now experiencing the melting of mountain glaciers such as that on Mount  Kilimanjaro in my own country, which has affected water sources and tourism potential. Some African lakes are drying up,  shrinking in size, with the fish catch decreasing day by day thereby threatening the livelihood of millions of inhabitants  who directly or indirectly depend on them and their aquatic products. We are also witnessing severe weather patterns  causing species loss and changes in seasonal rainfall. The bimodal pattern of rainfall distribution in some parts is  gradually switching to a unimodal pattern as short rains slowly fade away, leading to decreased agriculture yields,  thereby affecting agriculture production, exports and also economies. Rising sea levels are causing some low-lying  islands in the Indian Ocean and elsewhere to be submerged under water or even to disappear. Ras Nungwi, for example,  in the northern tip of Zanzibar Island, has lost almost 100 meters of beach in the last 20 years alone. The sea level is  rising fast. Climate change affects energy production due to depleted water sources, forests and vegetation cover. Plant  species that are vulnerable to drought give way to those that are drought-resistant, resulting in a loss of species and  biodiversity. Rising temperature are linked to the activation of vector-borne diseases, with malaria becoming increasingly  challenging. Climate change also impacts tourism due to possible decreases in wildlife population. Global warming and  climate change continue to affect poor nations, most of which are in Africa. These countries are less industrialized and  have contributed little to the current greenhouse gas emissions, and yet they have to bear the heavy burden of climate  change. The United Republic of Tanzania supports the UNESCO Strategy for Action on Climate Change and the  Director-General’s proposal to look for innovative methods to address this problem, including the desirability of a  standard-setting instrument for the ethical principles on climate change. These are some of the cross-cutting issues I  alluded to earlier.
2.9 Mr President, following the ongoing United Nations reform, UNESCO has little choice but to partner with the  United Nations and other agencies for the system to work with broad coherency and effective delivery at country level. I  am pleased to know that at UNESCO there is a large cluster office that has succeeded in putting together two exemplary  projects – the Education Management Information System and the Science, Technology and Innovation System Review  – with inter-agency cooperation involving the participation of other United Nations agencies and bilateral partners within  the framework of the “Delivering as One” approach and responding directly to the needs and priorities of Tanzanian  people. I therefore commend the Director-General for his commitment to the United Nations reform and for his efforts to  restructure UNESCO’s field operations in response to it. I am confident that UNESCO is better placed to adapt itself to  new business practices, particularly given that UNESCO is now not new to reform. You, yourself, Mr Director-General,  upon taking office in 1999, introduced a far-reaching internal reform of the Organization, which has included restructuring  the Secretariat in its new decentralization policy, programme and budget management systems, and staff policy. The  ongoing reform of UNESCO, and now that of the United Nations, are part of the continuous process of improvement. The  United Republic of Tanzania gives you its full support. I would like to pay special recognition to the cooperation we have  received from the UNESCO Office in Dar es Salaam.
2.10 Mr President, Africa is unchallenged in its rich cultural heritage and its diversity. Africa is also rich in the creative  work of art, both tangible and intangible. It is heartening to note that UNESCO has new international standard-setting  instruments in the field of culture, including the 2005 Convention on the Protection and Promotion of the Diversity of  Cultural Expressions and the 2003 Convention for the Safeguarding of the Intangible Cultural Heritage. The United  Republic of Tanzania is on its way to ratifying these conventions once the necessary procedures have been completed.  Also, the United Republic of Tanzania is a Party to the 1972 World Heritage Convention and has seven of its heritage  properties inscribed on the World Heritage List, including the Stone Town of Zanzibar, where I come from. This historical  urban landscape faces enormous challenges due to the pressure of visitors and the rapid expansion of commercial  activities in the area, which calls for safety and proper maintenance of old buildings and so on. These challenges are too
269  heavy to bear for a small economy such as that of Zanzibar. So I would like to make an appeal for international  cooperation in tackling these problems.
2.11 In conclusion, Mr President, please allow me to make a few remarks and observations. I look at today’s world as  being dictated by a paradigm shift. There are challenges to the prevailing imbalance in socio-economic development  among nations and peoples of the world: illiteracy; disparity in the application of scientific and technological knowledge;  and cultural and religious intolerance. Ignorance and illiteracy have not decreased in many parts of the world. The  majority of illiterate people live in developing countries, particularly in the least developed countries of Africa. Poverty is  still rampant. Social exclusion and marginalization pass unchecked. In most parts of the world, life is unsafe due to  human-induced hazards, wars and HIV/AIDS. Turmoil is rampant and poses a major threat to the productive segment of  the population, particularly in Africa. Gender disparity and inadequate provision of good quality education are prevalent;  as are violations of human rights. UNESCO has a crucial role to link peace and sustainable development to promote  dialogue among civilizations, cultures and peoples so that they respect one another and respect cultural diversity.  UNESCO has always been looking for new approaches and strategies in response to global challenges. We should all  think of new roles that UNESCO could play in the twenty-first century to rise to the emerging challenges and to support  them. I thank you for your attention.  (Applause)
3.1 The President:   Thank you very much, Mr President, for your very important statement, and I must congratulate you on the fine  work that you are doing in cooperation with UNESCO. Thank you very much.  (The President continues in French)
3.2 J’ai maintenant le plaisir d’inviter Son Excellence, Monsieur Ismaël Omar Guelleh, Président de la République  de Djibouti, à prendre la parole.  )(א٤,١ א א א א א א؛א .א
(4.1) M. Guelleh (Président de Djibouti) (traduit de l’arabe) :   Au nom de Dieu le Clément, le Miséricordieux. Que les prières et la paix soient sur le Prophète ; que la paix et la  miséricorde et la bénédiction de Dieu soient sur vous.
4.2 Monsieur le Président de la Conférence générale de l'UNESCO, Monsieur le Président du Conseil exécutif,  Monsieur le Directeur général, Mesdames et Messieurs les chefs de délégation, Mesdames et Messieurs les délégués,  Mesdames et Messieurs, je suis très sensible au grand honneur qui m'est fait de m'adresser, pour la première fois, à  votre éminente assemblée à l'occasion de cette 35e Conférence générale de l'UNESCO dont je salue le Président,  Monsieur Davidson Hepburn, que je remercie pour les propos aimables qu’il a tenus à mon endroit.
4.3 Je voudrais vous dire combien je suis heureux de me retrouver parmi vous, dans cette prestigieuse enceinte, en  réponse à l'aimable invitation qu'a bien voulu m'adresser M. Koïchiro Matsuura, Directeur général de l'Organisation des  Nations Unies pour l'éducation, la science et la culture. Permettez-moi, ici, de rendre un hommage particulièrement  appuyé à M. Matsuura dont la mission à la tête de l'UNESCO vient de s’achever, pour son dévouement et pour le travail  remarquable qu’il a accompli tout au long de ses deux mandats.
4.4 Je tiens également à profiter de cette occasion pour féliciter Mme Irina Bokova pour son élection à la tête de  cette noble Organisation. Soyez assurée, Madame, que Djibouti ne manquera pas de vous apporter le soutien et l’appui  nécessaires à la bonne conduite de votre mission.
4.5 Enfin, ma profonde reconnaissance va à tous ceux ici présents, les délégués des nations du monde entier, les  dignes représentants du monde de la culture et de la science, et à toutes les compétences d'hier et d'aujourd'hui qui ont  œuvré ou qui œuvrent sans relâche pour le bien et la réconciliation des hommes et des peuples, à travers tous les  domaines de la culture, des sciences et de l'éducation. Ensemble, vous êtes ici pour constituer, comme disait une  grande conscience de ce monde, le Pape Jean-Paul II, à cette même tribune « une puissance énorme, une puissance  positive ; la puissance des intelligences et des consciences » pour lutter, plus que jamais, contre, je cite : « cette  incompréhension mutuelle des peuples qui a toujours été, au cours de l'histoire, à l'origine de la suspicion et de la  méfiance entre nations, par où leurs désaccords ont trop souvent dégénéré en guerres ».
4.6 Monsieur le Président, Excellences, si j'ai le bonheur d'être parmi vous aujourd'hui, c'est pour ajouter ma voix à  celles des hommes et des femmes qui ont la conviction profonde que « les guerres prenant naissance dans l'esprit des  hommes, c'est dans l'esprit des hommes que doivent être élevées les défenses de la paix », et qu’aucune « paix fondée  sur les seuls accords économiques et politiques des gouvernements ne saurait entraîner l'adhésion unanime, durable et  sincère des peuples et que, par conséquent, cette paix doit être établie sur le fondement de la solidarité intellectuelle et  morale de l'humanité ».
4.7 Figurant au préambule de l’Acte constitutif de notre Organisation, cette profession de foi que nous renouvelons  à chacune de nos retrouvailles, avec la même conviction et portés par les mêmes espoirs, reste, pour le moins, un défi  immense, une mise en garde permanente contre les dérives du passé ; mais elle constitue également une opportunité  pour tracer des pistes toujours plus nombreuses, toujours mieux adaptées à la mise en œuvre de ces valeurs et de ces  droits qui nous sont si chers, et qui représentent la voie dans laquelle ne peuvent que s’engager les nations du monde  désireuses de paix et de progrès.
4.8 Depuis sa création, l'UNESCO, grâce à la bonne conduite et à la détermination des dirigeants qui se sont  succédé à sa tête et ce, malgré les difficultés qui ont jalonné son histoire, a toujours fait de son mieux pour s'acquitter, à  la satisfaction générale, des missions qui lui ont été confiées. Il est assez remarquable d'observer que dans un monde  en perpétuelle mutation dont le pouls bat au rythme accéléré des échanges dus à la globalisation, l’UNESCO conserve,  malgré tout, toutes ses prérogatives et son autorité sur le plan de ses responsabilités fondamentales. Elle reste le garant  des principes et valeurs d’universalité, d'équité, de respect des droits humains, de solidarité et de tolérance qui  constituent le meilleur cadre possible pour un dialogue entre les cultures et entre les civilisations ; un dialogue  indispensable pour instaurer la paix des peuples de ce monde. La paix est volonté et il n’est, en effet, pas de meilleur  rempart à la guerre que l’adoption de valeurs et de comportements  plus justes et plus solidaires.
4.9 La République de Djibouti, Monsieur le Président, en tant que nation arabe, islamique et africaine incarne les  valeurs de tolérance, de solidarité et de dialogue entre les peuples et, aussi, consacre les préceptes religieux comme  fondement de ses engagements pour la compréhension et le respect entre les religions. Cette volonté renforce notre  détermination à œuvrer en faveur du rapprochement fraternel et de l'entraide entre les nations, afin de promouvoir une  prospérité et un développement des peuples frères.
4.10 Monsieur le Président, Excellences, avec ses moyens limités, l'œuvre accomplie par l'UNESCO est, toutefois,  immense. Et par son inscription dans l’indispensable réforme des Nations Unies, notre noble Organisation aspire à  mieux faire et mieux nous servir. Parmi ses grandes réussites, celle qui me tient particulièrement à cœur et qui demeure  l'une des plus grandes entreprises intellectuelles de notre Organisation est l’« Histoire générale de l'Afrique », œuvre  monumentale destinée à réhabiliter un passé travesti et méconnu. À cet égard, mon pays se félicite du projet d'utilisation  pédagogique de l'Histoire générale de l'Afrique qui a été lancé lors du Sommet de Khartoum en 2006 et qui aidera très  certainement, selon les mots de M. Matsuura, « à faire émerger une vision pluraliste et globale de l'histoire de l'Afrique ».
4.11 L’UNESCO, c’est également un réseau dense d’ententes et d’échanges intellectuels, d’expériences et de  savoirs partagés à travers le monde, et de nombreux programmes de coopération dans les différents domaines  d’intervention de l’Organisation. À cet égard, je saisis cette occasion pour dire combien mon pays est attaché à la  coopération fructueuse qu’il a su nouer avec l’Organisation dans des domaines aussi fondamentaux que l'éducation, la  culture et l'accès à l'information et au savoir, à travers la démocratisation des nouvelles technologies d’information et de  communication. D’ailleurs, notre volonté affichée de contribuer davantage aux réalisations de notre Organisation a pu  être récompensée par l’élection de notre pays au Conseil exécutif. Djibouti a accueilli cette élection avec une grande  fierté et un sens aigu de ses responsabilités. J'exprime, à cet égard, toute ma gratitude aux pays amis qui nous ont  manifesté un soutien sans réserve au cours des récentes élections.
4.12 Monsieur le Président, permettez-moi d’ajouter un mot sur les récentes turbulences qui sont venues assombrir  la vision que nous avions de notre monde et qui ont amené beaucoup d’entre nous à se demander si l’être humain  n’avait pas atteint les limites de ce qu’il pouvait exiger de lui-même, de la nature, voire de la vie. Jamais dans l’histoire  du monde autant de menaces n’ont pesé sur l’humanité : famines, maladies infectieuses qui déciment les forces vives de  continents entiers, menace d’une faillite du système économique, appauvrissement des ressources naturelles,  résurgence de l’intolérance et de la violence, des régions livrées à l'anarchie, des mouvements migratoires non maîtrisés,  des dérives extrémistes, terreau fertile du terrorisme, des menaces nucléaires...
4.13 En ces temps troublés, la prépondérance de l'économie au détriment de l'humain a fini par démontrer ses  limites. En effet, jamais dans l'histoire de l'humanité, des menaces aussi graves n'ont pesé sur nos ressources  naturelles, coupant court aux illusions d’une planète généreuse et abondante. Jamais la résurgence de l'intolérance et  de la violence n’a pris des dimensions aussi inquiétantes. C’est pourquoi, le mandat constitutionnel de l’UNESCO reste  plus que jamais pertinent ; l’Organisation est appelée à jouer un rôle crucial et à participer davantage au débat sur la  gouvernance globale car ses domaines de compétence sont au cœur de la mondialisation.
4.14 L’ampleur des destructions, Excellences, nous rappelle la fragilité de l'humanité face à la nature. C’est pourquoi,  dans la perspective de la prochaine conférence internationale sur le changement climatique, qui doit se tenir en  décembre 2009 à Copenhague, il ne fait aucun doute que l’Afrique, principale victime du phénomène de réchauffement  climatique, parlera d’une seule et même voix pour défendre ses intérêts vitaux. Nous demandons, par conséquent, à  notre Organisation de se placer, comme toujours, à l’avant-garde, en vue de la réalisation d’une mondialisation  désormais plus responsable. Ainsi, les défis qui se posent aujourd’hui à nous sont plus que jamais des opportunités pour  penser le monde autrement, le réinventer pour que s’établisse une mondialisation à visage humain. Les difficultés sont,  certes, immenses, mais les possibilités aussi.
4.15 Monsieur le Président, Excellences, je ne saurais terminer ce discours sans rappeler la situation qui prévaut  toujours en Palestine et en Somalie... Nous formons le vœu que les peuples frères de la Somalie et de la Palestine  puissent accéder à une vie meilleure grâce à l’instauration d'une paix juste, durable et globale. J’exhorte la communauté  internationale à redoubler encore d’efforts pour mettre définitivement un terme aux souffrances de ces peuples. Dans cet  ultime objectif qu’est l’instauration d’un espace de paix et de stabilité dans ces pays frères, je puis vous assurer que la  République de Djibouti ne manquera pas à ses obligations régionales et internationales. Je vous remercie de votre  attention.  (Applaudissements)
5.1 The President:   Merci beaucoup, Monsieur le Président, pour votre présentation. On behalf of all the Members here in this room,  we would like to thank you very much for your presence here today and for the important information that you have  shared with us. Ladies and gentlemen, I know that you would also want to thank both of the eminent guests today who
271  have been delivered their messages to us. We have been infinitely honoured by their visit. Thank you very much. And  now distinguished ladies and gentlemen, I would like you to remain seated in order to allow the Director-General to  accompany our distinguished guests out of the room.   (Applause)  His Excellency Mr Ismaël Omar Guelleh, President of Djibouti,  and His Excellency Sheikh Amani Abeid Karume, President of Zanzibar, United Republic of Tanzania  are escorted from the room.
5.2 Ladies and gentlemen, thank you very much for your presence and your patience. I will now proceed with the  adjournment of this meeting. Our next plenary is scheduled for Wednesday at 3.00 p.m. to listen to the reports of the  Nominations Committee and the Administrative and PRX Commissions. Thank you very much once again. The meeting  is adjourned.   The meeting rose at 1.05 p.m.  La séance est levée à 13 h 05  Se levanta la sesión a las 13.05  Заседание закрывается в 13.05  א א١,٠٥א   会议于 13 时 05 分结束