1. The President:   Ladies and gentlemen, good morning. Your President proper cannot be with us this morning as he is  participating in the opening of the Plenary Ministerial Forum, but a very warm welcome to all of you. I would like to  declare the fifth plenary meeting open. Before we continue with the general policy debate, I should remind you once  again about the time limit for interventions, which has been fixed at six minutes per speaker. As at our previous sessions,  a crescendoing piece of music will interrupt those speakers who go beyond the six-minute mark. I now have the great  honour to call on our first speaker for this morning, the Minister of Education of Afghanistan, His Excellency Mr Ghulam  Farooq Wardak. Welcome.
2.1  Mr Wardak (Afghanistan):   Bismillāh ir-rahmān ir-rahīm (In the name of God, the Merciful, the Compassionate). Madam President,  Mr Director-General, Excellencies, distinguished delegates, ladies and gentlemen, as-salāmu ‘alaikum. It is a great  honour to have the opportunity of addressing this distinguished assembly at this session of the UNESCO General  Conference. I am confident that it will open a new chapter in the history of this prestigious Organization, building on its  achievements of the last 64 years of its existence. May I also join other distinguished delegates in warmly welcoming the  unanimous election of the President, to his important position of leading the world’s efforts for universal peace and  human dignity. Afghanistan takes a special pride in being a Member State of such a dignified organization.
2.2 Ladies and gentlemen, since the year 2002 the Afghan nation, supported by its partners in the international  community, has been on a steady path towards a restoration of peace, the promotion of democracy, the rebuilding of its  institutions and the reconstruction of its basic infrastructure, as a result of which a new Afghanistan is emerging. This  new Afghanistan is a growing democracy with rising state institutions, a vibrant civil society, a free media, a growing  private sector and strong international solidarity. Over the course of the last eight years, access to basic health services  has significantly increased from 9% to 85%; student enrolment has grown from fewer than 1 million boys to nearly
7 million girls and boys; from one state radio station and a couple of newspapers seven years ago, today we have over
700 media outlets that enjoy the benefit of freedom of the press; and more than 1 million Afghans have access to the  Internet. A great deal of progress has also been made in safeguarding our cultural heritage through the reclamation,  restoration and preservation of our cultural treasures. Ladies and gentlemen, these achievements and many others  would have been unthinkable without the generous support and sacrifices of our friends, allies and partners in the  international community. May I take this opportunity to express our sincere gratitude to the international community,  which has supported Afghanistan in its transformation from being in a state of isolation, oppression, violence, dysfunction  and occupation to becoming a progressive and responsible member of the world community.
2.3 Madam President, 20 August was another important milestone in Afghanistan’s journey towards sustainable  peace and democracy. Despite threats to their lives, Afghans across the nation have affirmed their commitment to the  democratic process by participating in the presidential and provincial council elections. As with any young democracy,  there might have been some irregularities. However, we must be cautious not to assess a young and terrorism-afflicted  democracy by the standards of the mature democracies of stable and developed nations. Ladies and gentlemen, our  achievements must not make us lose sight of the significant challenges ahead of us. Afghanistan is still suffering at the  hands of international terrorism. We are still one of the poorest nations on earth. Our nascent state institutions are still  weak. Narcotics, corruption and criminality endanger our future and undermine the rebuilding and development  processes. As I stand before you today, nearly 42% of the school-age population do not have access to education. About
65% of all men and 90% of all women, particularly in rural areas, cannot read and write. We acknowledge that the  challenges ahead of us are huge and serious. Nonetheless, we are determined to meet each challenge with courage and  resolve and to grasp every opportunity with eagerness and vision. We are fortunate to have a resolute international  community on our side upon whose continuous support we count.
2.4 Excellencies, ladies and gentlemen, the Government of the Islamic Republic of Afghanistan endorses the  C/5 document and reaffirms its commitment to the five programme areas elaborated in it. We remain committed to the  goal of ensuring that education, science, culture, communication and information serve to establish lasting peace and  sustainable development. The people of Afghanistan have precious memories of the UNESCO-supported teacher  training academy in the 1960s and 1970s. We are especially indebted to UNESCO for its effective support – under the  leadership of its Director-General, Mr Koïchiro Matsuura – to our education system in general, in particular for curriculum  reform and developing a national education strategic plan. We have adopted UNESCO’s Literacy Initiative  For Empowerment (LIFE) as our national literacy framework, which is supported by the Governments of the United  States of America and Japan, to whom we present our sincere thanks. However, in order to achieve the Millennium  Development Goal related to Education for all, we need and expect more extensive support from UNESCO under the  leadership of Her Excellency Ms Irina Bokova, and from our friends in the international community. I must not miss this  opportunity to congratulate Ms Bokova on her nomination by the Executive Board for the prestigious position of Director- General. Madam President, let me conclude by assuring you that we are fully committed to the principles which guided  the creation of UNESCO. We will strongly support its objectives and will take an active part in achieving its noble mission.  I thank you very much for your time and attention.
3. The President:   Thank you very much, Your Excellency. Our next speaker is the Minister of Education and Science of Latvia,  Her Excellency Ms Tatjana Koķe, who will now take the floor. Welcome.
4.1 Ms Koķe (Latvia):   Madam President, distinguished delegates, colleagues and friends, it is my honour to congratulate His  Excellency Mr Davidson Hepburn on his election as President of the General Conference. In the name of the Latvian  delegation, we wish His Excellency every success in carrying out his important duties during the 35th session.
4.2 Madam President, at the outset we would like to associate ourselves with the statement made on behalf of the  European Union by the distinguished Minister of Sweden. This General Conference does indeed have important tasks to  fulfil. Apart from choosing the new Director-General of UNESCO, setting the biennial priorities and adopting new  standard-setting instruments, it also has to respond, through its decisions, to the current economic crisis in the world. In  this regard, it is the strong belief of Latvia that the role of the Organization in finding innovative solutions based on values  rather than on economic rationale is growing. For this, the continuation of the decentralization promoting coherence  among different sectors and strengthening the Organization’s work at national and local levels has to be the way forward.  To ensure both the decentralization and the intersectorality, the fruitful work of the National Commissions is of the utmost  importance and should be fully promoted and supported in UNESCO Member States, requiring both strong support from  the Secretariat and acknowledgment of responsibilities by the States themselves and by their National Commissions. In  this regard, I have to mention the very successful cooperation of the three Baltic States, within the framework of the  Memory of the World Programme, for the inclusion of their common documentary heritage – “The Baltic Way – Human  Chain Linking Three States in Their Drive for Freedom” – in the Memory of the World Register. As an idea born within the  Communication and Information Sector, through its implementation up to and after inscription, it has shown itself to be a  source for broad and expanding cross-sectoral cooperation. The “Baltic Way” nomination has served to encourage the  organization of different exhibitions and commemorative celebrations, the search for linkages in documentary heritage  between our intangible and tangible cultural values, as well as the development of new learning and teaching materials,  also using new communication technologies. Yet there are many more challenges which have to be faced in a different  manner and through different initiatives, and Latvia is ready to be involved in addressing them in a fully responsible  manner.
4.3 Latvia actively implements and promotes the aims of the United Nations Decade of Education for Sustainable  Development (2005-2014). In this regard, it is an honour that my country has now taken the lead role for the next three  years of the UNESCO Associated Schools Project Network’s Baltic Sea Project, thus encouraging and giving even more  opportunities for students around the Baltic Sea not only to learn but, moreover, to participate in developing a real,  sustainable future.
4.4 Joining the roadmap for action ahead of the World Conference on Early Childhood Care and Education, which  will be held in Moscow in summer 2010, and expressing our full support for this forthcoming event, Latvia will be hosting  a regional meeting in Riga in early July on the theme “Embracing inclusive approaches for children and youth with  special education needs”. I believe it will be as successful as the Regional Conference on Inclusive Education held  before the 48th session of the International Conference on Education in Geneva in 2008. I would like to take this  opportunity to invite you all to attend this important event and, at the same time, to note that the conference is being  organized to coincide with the Latvian School Youth Song and Dance Celebration, which has been proposed and  recommended for association with UNESCO. This event, which will celebrate its 50th anniversary in 2010, is part of the  Baltic Song and Dance Celebrations tradition on UNESCO’s Representative List of the Intangible Cultural Heritage of  Humanity. We would be honoured not only to engage with you in a fruitful and mutually enriching discussion but also to  show you our inclusive approaches in practice, including at a Song and Dance Celebration gathering together over
20,000 young people.
4.5 Madam President, allow me to conclude by underlining the importance of UNESCO’s Man and the Biosphere  (MAB) Programme and its network of biosphere reserves in serving as learning and dialogue places for sustainable  development. Indeed, the Programme and the biosphere reserves have proven successful in the implementation of the  sustainable development concept and the linking of environmental, economic, social and cultural needs in equitable  manner. In fact, Latvia has only one biosphere reserve, but the knowledge we have acquired and are sharing with other  countries makes us confident that this approach to governance will expand and develop. Thank you very much for your  attention.
5. The President:   Thank you very much indeed. Our next speaker is the Minister of Education and Higher Education of Kuwait,  Her Excellency Ms Moudi Alhamoud. Welcome.  א٦,١ ):א(א א  א א.א א א ، ،.א א ، א א א א א א א א، א א א.א א א א א אאא ، א א ، א א אא א א א ، א א ، .א
(6.1) Mme Alhamoud (Koweït) (traduit de l’arabe):   Au nom de Dieu, Clément et Miséricordieux. Madame la Présidente, Mesdames et Messieurs les présidents et  membres de délégation. Au nom de l'État du Koweït, de son Emir, de son gouvernement et de son peuple, je vous adresse le  plus cordial salut et je rends hommage à l'UNESCO pour l'action qu'elle mène et les réussites inscrites à son actif tout au long  de son histoire, au service de nobles objectifs. J'aimerais, tout d'abord, féliciter M. Davidson Hepburn et lui adresser tous nos  vœux de succès à l'occasion de son élection comme Président de la 35e session de la Conférence générale. Je tiens aussi à  remercier Son Excellence l'Ambassadeur Georges Anastassopoulos, Président de la 34e session de la Conférence générale,  pour le remarquable travail qu'il a accompli au cours des deux dernières années.
(6.2) Mesdames et Messieurs, nous savons toute l'importance de l'UNESCO face aux mutations successives qui, partout  dans le monde, rendent les relations entre les hommes de plus en plus complexes. Les responsabilités de l'UNESCO s'en  trouvent accrues car il lui incombe d'améliorer ces relations et de rapprocher les peuples entre eux. La réforme entreprise par  l'Organisation dans le but d'accroître la transparence, consolider l'administration sur la base des résultats, tendre vers la  bonne gouvernance et la décentralisation, associer au mieux les États membres et les comités nationaux à l'élaboration du  programme, est une entreprise en tout point louable. Gage d'efficacité pour l'UNESCO, elle s'inscrit aussi dans la ligne des  réformes engagées par les Nations Unies afin que toutes leurs agences soutiennent à l'unisson les plans et programmes de  développement au niveau des États. Nous nous devons de citer, avec estime et reconnaissance, la remarquable action  accomplie par M. Koïchiro Matsuura, Directeur général de l'UNESCO. Sa vision est pour beaucoup dans les grandes réussites  obtenues au cours des dix dernières années pendant lesquelles il a occupé ce poste de Directeur général. Par la même  occasion nous adressons toutes nos félicitations à Mme Irina Bokova, pour son élection au poste de Directrice générale de  l'Organisation, avec nos vœux de succès et de réussite.
(6.3) Mesdames et Messieurs, l'État du Koweït veille, dans l'action qu'il mène pour élever son système éducatif et en  améliorer les résultats, à tirer le meilleur profit de la Stratégie à moyen terme 2008-2013, avec ses objectifs globaux. Après  avoir mis l'enseignement à la portée de tous, il en privilégie désormais la qualité, conformément à sa Constitution qui prescrit  que l'enseignement, avec tous ses niveaux, est un droit pour chaque citoyen. Ainsi, dans sa lutte contre l'analphabétisme, le  Koweït a atteint les taux les plus remarquables du monde. Il s'est employé à renforcer les facteurs d'excellence éducative sur  tous les plans : programmes scolaires, contenus, administration, capacités éducatives, intégration dans les programmes de  tout ce qui a trait aux aptitudes à la vie quotidienne, aux droits de l'homme, à la préservation de l'environnement, aux valeurs  de citoyenneté, liberté, droit, justice, paix, respect de l'opinion d'autrui et culture de tolérance. Une conférence nationale pour  améliorer l'enseignement s'est tenue au Koweït en février 2008, à l'initiative de S.A. le Cheikh Sabah Al-Ahmad Al-Jaber Al- Sabah, Dieu le préserve. Y ont participé toutes les forces vives de la société avec la contribution de nombreuses institutions et  organisations arabes et internationales. Toutes ont donné leur point de vue et présenté des études qui ont servi de point de  départ à l'entreprise d'amélioration de l'enseignement dans le pays.
(6.4) Mesdames et Messieurs, le Koweït tient par-dessus tout à offrir un enseignement supérieur de qualité et diversifié, à  soutenir la recherche et les études scientifiques et académiques, à associer les universités arabes et étrangères les plus  distinguées aux programmes de partenariat mis en œuvre par les institutions scientifiques koweïtiennes, afin de profiter des  progrès mondiaux et des programmes novateurs sous-tendus par les technologies de l'information et de la communication les  plus récentes. Il entend aussi s'appuyer sur le programme de jumelage des universités et des chaires universitaires de  l'UNESCO et favoriser l'échange de pratiques nouvelles, la recherche scientifique en matière d'enseignement pour un  développement durable et pour le renforcement du rôle des sciences. Le Koweït n'a de cesse de soutenir l'action  internationale en faveur du développement humain, des sciences et de la culture. C'est pourquoi il se réjouit du Programme  de coopération Sud-Sud dans le domaine de l'éducation et réitère sa volonté de renforcer les capacités éducatives des pays  en développement. Il se félicite également de la création du Centre régional de développement de la petite enfance en  République arabe syrienne, sous l'égide de l'UNESCO, centre qui aura pour mission de renforcer les capacités dans ce  domaine et dans celui des sciences naturelles. Le Koweït se félicite, en outre, de la stratégie de l'Organisation relative au  changement climatique ainsi que des activités qu'elle mène en vue de l'année internationale de la biodiversité en 2010. Pour  ce qui concerne le rôle de la femme et son accession aux responsabilités, la stratégie de l'UNESCO confirme l'importance de  cette cause. Le Koweït s'inscrit dans cette démarche, les Koweïtiennes ayant atteint les plus hauts postes et obtenu tous leurs  droits politiques. Elles sont désormais ministres et parlementaires puisque quatre d'entre elles siègent au Nouveau Conseil de  la nation et elles sont non moins actives dans le domaine de la culture. Le Koweït soutient le plan d'action proposé par  l'UNESCO et les activités qui en relèvent, notamment pour ce qui concerne la célébration de l'Année internationale du  rapprochement des cultures. Il se réjouit de la création du Centre régional du renforcement des capacités arabes en matière  de patrimoine culturel et naturel au royaume du Bahreïn sous l'égide de l'UNESCO. Nous saisissons cette occasion pour  rappeler la nécessité de protéger le patrimoine culturel et humain si remarquable de la ville de Jérusalem et pour dire notre  reconnaissance au Directeur général de l'UNESCO qui n'a cessé d'œuvrer à la protection de ce patrimoine, soutenant les  opérations de remise en état des institutions éducatives et culturelles dans les territoires arabes occupés.
(6.5) Mesdames et Messieurs, à l'heure où notre monde traverse la crise économique que l'on sait, l'investissement dans  les domaines de compétence de l'Organisation revêt une importance plus capitale que jamais. Il permettra de hâter la reprise  et la sortie de la crise financière et économique, de sorte que nous puissions nous remettre sur la voie du développement et  de la prospérité, à l'ère de la mondialisation et de la concurrence par le savoir. Le Koweït souscrit au projet de programme de  l'Organisation et tous, autant que nous sommes, nous devons apporter notre soutien matériel et moral à l'UNESCO pour lui  permettre de remplir sa noble mission. Je vous salue encore une fois et vous remercie de votre attention. Que la paix soit  avec vous.
7. The President:   Thank you very much Your Excellency. Our next speaker this morning is the Minister of Education of Ghana, His  Excellency Mr Alex Tettey-Enyo. Welcome.
8.1 Mr Tettey-Enyo (Ghana):   Madam President, Mr Chair of the Executive Board, Mr Director-General, Your Excellencies, distinguished  delegates, ladies and gentlemen, it gives me much pleasure to have this opportunity to address the 35th session of the  General Conference of UNESCO. I bring you warm greetings from His Excellency John Evans Atta Mills, President of the  Republic of Ghana, on whose behalf I would like to express Ghana’s gratitude to the international community for the  goodwill demonstrated a few weeks ago during the centenary celebration of the birth of Ghana’s first president, Osagyefo  Dr Kwame Nkrumah of blessed memory.
8.2 Madam President, the Ghana delegation wishes to join previous speakers in congratulating  Mr Davidson Hepburn on his election as President of the 35th session of the General Conference. The Ghana delegation  further wishes to congratulate the outgoing Director-General, Mr Koïchiro Matsuura, on his 10 years of excellent  stewardship of UNESCO, during which he laid strong foundations for organizational reform and renewal. Indeed, Ghana  has a special bond of friendship with Mr Matsuura, who started his diplomatic career at the Japanese Embassy in Accra.  Over the years, his sensitivity to the problems of Africa, and Ghana in particular, has manifested itself in many ways, to  our admiration. Consequently, the chiefs and people of Cape Coast in central Ghana made him a Chief, with the name  Nana Nyarko Abronoma I, in 2004. We seize this opportunity to express Ghana’s gratitude to Nana Nyarko Abronoma I  as he completes his tenure of office. Madam President, the Ghana delegation, at this history-making Conference, wishes  to warmly congratulate Ms Irina Bokova on her nomination for the much sought-after position of Director-General of our  Organization. Madam President, this 35th session of the General Conference of UNESCO is extremely important to  Member States because it marks the start of the second phase of the implementation of UNESCO’s Medium-Term  Strategy. It is also taking place at a time of a global economic and financial crisis posing enormous challenges to many  countries, including in the United Nations system. In that respect, Ghana welcomes the revised budget ceiling of  $653 million which, according to the Director-General, will not only ensure stability and predictability for the coming years,  but will also enable the new Director-General to lead the Organization in these difficult times.
8.3 Madam President, Ghana commends UNESCO’s efforts to strengthen its global leadership and coordinating role  to enable it to make an impact on education for all (EFA) and the Millennium Development Goals. Ghana recognizes with
104  gratitude the assistance given by UNESCO over the years to capacity-building in this area. In that regard, Ghana  endorses Major Programme I with an emphasis on the three fundamental areas of achieving EFA. Ghana further  commends UNESCO’s support for its national functional literacy programme. The programme has contributed immensely  to ensuring good citizenship, participation in governance and socio-economic development among the adult citizenry. It  has also turned out literate graduates who go into mainstream formal education and, through that, has opened up wider  opportunities for the adult population aspiring to greater heights in life.
8.4 We commend UNESCO’s efforts in supporting AU-NEPAD to enhance the Science and Technology  Consolidated Plan of Action, particularly in assisting Member States to review and develop science policies. Ghana has  begun the review process and therefore looks forward to UNESCO’s support. Furthermore, as a means of promoting  mathematical sciences in Africa, Ghana is preparing to host one of the 15 nodes of the African Mathematical Institute’s  Network at the University of Cape Coast, to be known as the African Institute of Mathematical Sciences-Ghana.
8.5 Madam President, Ghana’s recent offshore discovery of oil in commercial quantities has attracted tremendous  interest from the international community. Conscious of the potential danger that the oil industry may pose to our coastal  environment, the Ministry of Environment, Science and Technology is working in close collaboration with key agencies to  develop a comprehensive national plan of action to address pollution and other environmental hazards that may result  from the oil operations. Ghana therefore endorses the programmes outlined by the Intergovernmental Oceanographic  Commission (IOC) and looks forward to benefiting from policy and capacity-building programmes in this area.
8.6 Finally, Madam President, UNESCO, like any other human institution, is bound to undergo reformation and  transformation. It is evident that the Organization’s membership has more than tripled since its inception. In that respect,  there may be a need to reconsider the quota system for employment of staff which, in the past, has been based mainly  on the financial contributions of Member States. If UNESCO is expected to strengthen its global leadership role, then the  quota system needs to be reconsidered in the interest of the Organization’s universality. Thank you, Madam President.
(10.1) M. Ibrahim (Soudan) (traduit de l’arabe):   Au nom de Dieu, Clément et Miséricordieux. Monsieur le Président de la Conférence, Monsieur le Président du  Conseil exécutif, Monsieur le Directeur général de l'UNESCO, Mesdames et Messieurs les ministres, présidents et membres  de délégations, Mesdames et Messieurs, que la paix soit avec vous. Permettez-moi, tout d'abord, de vous saluer tous et  notamment Mme Irina Bokova à l'occasion de son élection au poste de Directrice générale de l'UNESCO, avec tous nos vœux  de succès. Nous réitérons notre volonté de coopérer totalement avec elle au service des nobles principes de l'UNESCO. De  cette tribune, nous tenons également à rendre hommage à M. Koïchiro Matsuura pour l'action remarquable qu'il a menée à la  tête de l'Organisation, dans un monde en proie aux crises : changement climatique, alimentation, énergie, sans oublier bien  sûr la crise économique et financière. Nous lui savons également gré des réformes globales entreprises par l'UNESCO sous  sa conduite et qui se sont traduites par une augmentation continue, en pourcentage, de la part consacrée aux programmes.
(10.2) Mesdames et Messieurs, le Gouvernement d'unité nationale du Soudan est parvenu, après bien des efforts et grâce  à l'aide de pays frères et amis, de celle de l'Union africaine et de la Ligue des États arabes, à conclure des accords de paix au  sud et à l'est de pays ainsi qu'au Darfour. Il l'a fait pour arrêter l'hémorragie due à la guerre qui a pesé lourd sur le  développement de ces régions et a épuisé les ressources de l'État. Ces efforts considérables ont permis d'instaurer la sécurité  dans les zones déchirées par des conflits et donné la possibilité à l'État d'œuvrer, sans cesse, à leur développement et leur  modernisation. Ainsi le nombre des écoles et des établissements universitaires a été accru et, partant, celui des bénéficiaires  de ces institutions, élèves et étudiants. Une attention particulière a été accordée à certaines catégories telles que les femmes  et les enfants dans les régions déchirées par la guerre. Elles ont bénéficié de contenus éducatifs appropriés et de stages de  formation pour les enseignants.
(10.3) Monsieur le Président, les priorités sectorielles de l'UNESCO en matière de sciences naturelles pour 2010-2011 sont  complémentaires de celles du Soudan. Nous sommes convaincus que la construction des capacités dans le domaine des  sciences et technologies est un élément fondamental du développement durable et pour l'éradication de la pauvreté. Aussi le  Soudan accorde-t-il une attention particulière à ce domaine. Je voudrais saisir cette occasion pour remercier sincèrement  l'UNESCO d'avoir répondu si rapidement à l'initiative présidentielle portant sur la révision des politiques nationales en matière  de sciences et de technologies. Nous espérons que l'Organisation continuera de soutenir la coopération Nord-Sud, dans le  but de remédier à la fracture scientifique et technologique.
(10.4) Mesdames et Messieurs, le Soudan est en pleine transition, de la guerre à la paix. C'est pourquoi nous tenons à  instaurer un dialogue objectif visant à propager la culture de la paix entre tous les secteurs de la société. Ainsi notre peuple  jouira-t-il d'une paix durable et pourra cueillir les fruits des accords. Nous invitons la communauté internationale à nous aider à  reconstruire ce que la guerre a détruit et à surmonter les difficultés dues aux mutations sociales et culturelles, afin d'atteindre  ces objectifs tant espérés que sont la culture de la paix, la pérennisation de la démocratie, le règlement des questions des  droits de l'homme, des migrations et de l'exode. Nous espérons l'aide de l'UNESCO pour la protection du patrimoine culturel  immatériel par la numérisation, la restauration des sites archéologiques et la gestion de la diversité culturelle à l'ouest du  Soudan, dans le grand Darfour. Nous prions l'Organisation de soutenir, en coopération avec l'ISESCO, l'initiative du Soudan  concernant une stratégie pour la route du pèlerinage. Nous invitons les gouvernements à formuler des plans et des directives  générales visant à renforcer et faciliter l'accès libre aux données, moyennant des droits raisonnables et par des moyens de  communication tels que l'Internet notamment, en préservant les informations publiques et en renforçant la dimension éthique  dans l'utilisation des technologies de l'information et de la communication. Ainsi serviront-ils le principe de l'UNESCO sur  l'accès pour tous aux données. Nous appelons l'Organisation à œuvrer au comblement du fossé numérique en renforçant la  coopération sur les programmes de recherche scientifique et d'échanges d'expérience, par la création de bibliothèques  numériques et la programmation, et en répondant au besoin des pays en développement et à leurs priorités éducatives. Et  n'oublions pas la Palestine qui a besoin que l'on s'occupe de ses causes et de son existence même : l'Organisation est  appelée à redoubler d'efforts pour soutenir ses institutions éducatives. Nous réitérons l'expression de notre estime et de notre  respect à l'Organisation et à ceux qui y travaillent, espérant un renforcement des relations et plus de visites et d'échanges de  connaissances entre ses membres. Merci de votre attention et que la paix soit avec vous.
11. The President:   Thank you very much, Your Excellency. I would like to invite our next speaker, the Minister of Education and  Culture of Mozambique, His Excellency Mr Ali Aires to take the floor. Welcome.
12.1 Mr Aires (Mozambique) (interpretation from the Portuguese):   Madam President, allow me first of all to convey our congratulations to Mr Hepburn on having been elected to  preside over the work of this Conference. We are confident that under his stewardship it will be very successful. We take  this opportunity to praise the excellent work done by His Excellency Mr George Anastassopoulos during his mandate.  We would like to convey a special word of appreciation to the Director-General, Mr Koïchiro Matsuura, for his wise  leadership of the Organization, which has led to its strengthening through internal reforms, through the mobilization of  synergies for the accomplishment of UNESCO’s mission, the focus on education, access to advances in science and  promotion of, and respect for, cultural diversity. We noted with satisfaction the visit of the Director-General to our country  in 2008, which further contributed to the strengthening of cooperation.
12.2 Mozambique is about to hold its fourth general election and, for the first time, is having regional elections too,  which should help strengthen democracy and the rule of law in the country and bring all Mozambicans together to fight  poverty and to lay the foundations for future peace. Ladies and gentlemen, this Conference is taking place at a time  when the world is still suffering the impacts of the financial and economic crisis, the consequences of which are hitting  our countries hard, particularly in the social sector. I would like to commend UNESCO for its strategic vision outlined in  document 35 C/5, which not only presents policy and programmes, but also raises challenges and puts forward solutions  to Member States, international organizations and other players. We must continue to act together in a coordinated  fashion in order to minimize the knock-on effects of this phenomenon as well as to change this challenge into an  opportunity by defining new strategies. In this connection, UNESCO has a fundamental role to play in its fields of  competence: education, science, culture, communication and information.
12.3 Ladies and gentlemen, we are midway towards the deadline set to achieve education for all by 2015. We have  already made considerable progress. We have many more children in school, in particular girls, and illiteracy is down.  The Government has made education a strategic component against poverty and a fundamental right. In my country, we  have approved programmes and actions aimed at implementing our international commitments. To this effect, the  Government has concentrated its actions on building education infrastructure, promoting distance education, reviewing  the curriculum to have relevant content that helps people get jobs, and implementing specific measures to promote equal  access and gender equality. Despite all this, there are still many young people with no access to education. We are fully  committed to constructing school buildings and promoting education including distance education, and so forth. We give  pride of place to the promotion of cultural and linguistic diversity. In this regard, we support Brazil’s proposal for  introducing Portuguese as a working language in our Organization.
12.4 During the last biennium, UNESCO promoted intercultural and interreligious dialogue and stimulated the cultural  industries. For the Mozambican Government, culture is the basis of our identity. It helps us strengthen our national unity  and is a factor for employment and income generation. In the last two years, various initiatives have taken place in  Mozambique to preserve and disseminate our cultural diversity, with a particular emphasis on the Island of Mozambique.  Within the framework of Mozambique-UNESCO cooperation, the Island of Mozambique, a World Heritage site, continues  to warrant particular attention from the Government. In this process, we have carried out joint actions which have allowed  us to implement the first phase of the rehabilitation of the San Sebastian Fortress, as well as to elaborate an integrated  human settlement plan for the island. Presently, the Government is engaged in seeking out partners to finance the  second phase of the integrated management plan. We would like to see a training centre for the preservation of our  cultural heritage, following up on the course that was held here. The peak of all these activities was the celebration of  World Press Freedom Day in May 2008. We would like to reiterate our willingness to strengthen current cooperation with  UNESCO with a view to improving the quality of services rendered to the public in the mass communication framework.  Before concluding, I would like to congratulate Ms Bokova on her election as the new Director-General of this  Organization. Thank you very much for your attention.
13. The President:   Thank you very much, Your Excellency. I now invite our next speaker, who is the Minister of Education and  Culture of Uruguay, Her Excellency Ms Maria Simon to take the floor.
(14.1) Mme Simon (Uruguay) (traduit de l’espagnol) :   Monsieur le Président, Mesdames et Messieurs, au nom de la République orientale de l’Uruguay, je félicite  chaleureusement M. Matsuura pour la gestion qu’il a menée et j’adresse maintenant mes meilleurs vœux à Mme Bokova pour  son futur mandat, en l’assurant du soutien que l’Uruguay a toujours accordé à l’UNESCO, conformément à sa politique d’État.
(14.2) Je veux partager avec vous la joie que nous a procurée, à la récente conférence d’Abou Dhabi, l’inscription sur la  Liste du patrimoine culturel immatériel du candombe et son espace socioculturel – patrimoine de l’Uruguay et de ses  populations d’origine africaine – et du tango - patrimoine commun de l’Argentine et de notre pays.
(14.3) L’Uruguay, pays à revenu intermédiaire, est confronté à la fois aux problèmes de la pauvreté et à celui des  infrastructures nécessaires au développement. Il peut, pour cette raison même, jouer un rôle particulièrement intéressant dans  des projets triangulaires auxquels nous avons tous quelque chose à apporter et dont nous avons à recevoir, mais aussi à  apprendre. L’Uruguay a reçu et continue de recevoir un appui important de l’UNESCO sous la forme de conseils concernant le  patrimoine, les écoles associées, l’évaluation de l’éducation, notamment celle de la petite enfance, l’enseignement secondaire  technique et l’enseignement scientifique, ce pourquoi je tiens à exprimer ici toute notre gratitude. Ces études et ces  évaluations ont été utiles pour l’examen de la Loi générale sur l’éducation qui vient d’être adoptée et qui considère l’éducation  à tous les niveaux comme un bien public de la société et comme un droit humain pour tous, tout au long de la vie. Elle  englobe l’éducation de la petite enfance, l’éducation des jeunes et des adultes et l’éducation non formelle, ce qui permet un  système ouvert au sein duquel divers itinéraires éducatifs sont possibles.
(14.4) Le gouvernement que je représente a pris la tête du pays en 2005, après une grave crise économique qui a atteint  son paroxysme en 2002, avec une dette extérieure bien supérieure au produit intérieur brut annuel. Aussi la récente crise de
2009 a eu un impact plutôt modéré grâce à la gestion très prudente qui a été adoptée. En effet, la dette actuelle s’élève à
30 % du PIB et les réserves du pays ont pratiquement triplé. En 2005, les besoins en matière de traitement social de la  pauvreté et de la misère qui étaient aigus ont été relativement satisfaits : la pauvreté a diminué de 30 % et la misère de moitié.  En outre, tandis que l’on répondait à ces priorités, les fonds publics alloués à l’enseignement public étaient multipliés par deux.  J’insiste sur le mot « public », car l’enseignement public en Uruguay est suivi par 85 % des tranches d’âges concernées. Il est  donc prédominant et son budget est passé de 2,7 % à 4,5 % du PIB, qui a lui-même doublé.
(14.5) Le projet ambitieux d’un ordinateur portable par enfant et par maître est d’ores et déjà en place dans tous les  établissements d’enseignement primaire sans exception. Une infrastructure permet à chacun d’être connecté à Internet dans  tout le pays. Cette génération d’enfants ne souffrira plus de la fracture numérique, car elle n’existe pas pour eux. Les crédits  affectés à la culture ont également été multipliés par six, ce qui est considérable, mais le budget de départ était certes très  réduit, ce qui signifie qu’il reste encore beaucoup à faire. Nous sommes intimement convaincus que la culture, en plus de  représenter une valeur intrinsèque, est une source d’emploi grâce aux industries culturelles, et un puissant facteur  d’intégration sociale.
(14.6) Nous sommes également convaincus que la science et la technologie sont essentielles pour le développement,  particulièrement dans un petit pays comme le nôtre, dont le principal capital est le savoir. C’est pourquoi les crédits qui leur  sont affectés ont été multipliés par 4, principalement sur des fonds propres, car la coopération internationale, toujours  bienvenue, doit s’accompagner d’engagements fermes.
(14.7) L’Uruguay présente sa candidature au Conseil exécutif de l’UNESCO, car il pense humblement pouvoir jouer un rôle  grâce à son expérience assez longue de la tradition démocratique et à celle acquise récemment, sous le présent  gouvernement. Il est clair qu’il ne peut y avoir de démocratie sans éducation pour tous, ni d’éducation sans intégration sociale,  sans culture et sans recherche. Je vous remercie.
15. The President:   Thank you very much, Your Excellency. I now invite our next speaker to the floor. It is the Minister of Education,  Culture and Science of Mongolia, His Excellency Mr Yondon Otgonbayar. Welcome.
16.1 Mr Otgonbayar (Mongolia):   Madam President, distinguished delegates, ladies and gentleman, allow me, on behalf of the Mongolian  delegation and myself, to congratulate Mr Hepburn on his election as the President of the 35th session of the General  Conference of UNESCO. I am confident that under his skilful and able leadership the Conference will be able to achieve  its expected results. I would like to pay a special tribute to Mr Matsuura, the outgoing Director-General, whose tireless  dedication and undying commitment to UNESCO’s ideals are well known to all of us. Mr Matsuura shall be remembered  for reforming this Organization and for the successes achieved by UNESCO under his able leadership. Mongolia is  particularly thankful that under his leadership the cooperation between Mongolia and UNESCO has intensified  significantly. Let me congratulate Ms Irina Bokova on her election to the post of Director-General of UNESCO. We  believe that her dedication, integrity and leadership abilities will bring UNESCO to a new stage, especially in addressing  the challenges facing education and literacy in the developing world.
16.2 This General Conference is different to previous sessions in many ways. As the world economic crisis persists,  the international community continues to face numerous challenges. Mongolia is no exception. In Mongolia, we decided  not to cut investment in education in order to maintain the level already attained. In order to achieve education for all  (EFA) and the Millennium Development Goals, Mongolia has made considerable efforts to ensure better access to and  quality of education. We are implementing an education sector master plan determining our policy and goals for the near  future. We started last year the transition to a 12-year schooling system to meet international standards. All these efforts  are in line with UNESCO’s Medium-Term Strategy. Still more efforts need to be made to assist developing countries,  especially at a time of financial crisis, to keep their educational services intact and to preserve the achieved level.  Madam President, the Government of Mongolia is of the view that education and literacy drive human development. We
108  are already halfway to the end of the United Nations Literacy Decade (UNLD) (2003-2012), so a great deal of effort must  be made by UNESCO and its Member States to reach the goals set forth in 2003. Last year, the Director-General  submitted to the 63rd session of the United Nations General Assembly a mid-term report on implementation of the UNLD  goals, which was an important step. Just a few days ago, the Executive Board adopted a resolution on the  implementation of those goals co-sponsored by many countries, including Mongolia. We will continue to work further to  implement our commitments.
16.3 Mongolia has developed a master plan for science and technology through to 2020 with assistance and  expertise from UNESCO. The plan aims to create a knowledge-based society in the promotion of sustainable  development. I would like to express our willingness to continue cooperation with UNESCO in water, ecology,  biotechnology and innovation to implement the master plan.
16.4 My country is facing the same global challenges as others as a result of climate change, air and water pollution,  desertification and so on. We highly appreciate the important role that UNESCO is playing to support biological and  cultural diversity through existing programmes and networks. Mongolia has had two sites inscribed on the World Heritage  List, and six sites added to the World Networks of Biosphere Reserves. While appreciative of UNESCO’s efforts, we are  also trying to make our own contribution. Mongolia has proposed organizing a North-East Asia summit on climate change  and, since the last session of the General Conference, we have organized a series of meetings of experts. We believe  that regional commitments will contribute to global efforts to fight climate change.
16.5 In a rapidly globalizing world, respect and understanding for humanity and the need for dialogue among  civilizations are becoming ever more important. The Government of Mongolia highly values the contribution that  UNESCO is making to safeguarding our national heritage, the hub of nomadic civilization. We are grateful to UNESCO  for inscribing our traditional musical instruments, the morin khuur and the tsuur, our traditional “long song” Urtiin duu,  Biyelgee dance and traditional epics on the List of the Masterpieces of the Oral and Intangible Heritage of Humanity. We  are hopeful that our request on the unique art of khöömii throat singing and traditional Nadaam festival will be considered  shortly. We truly believe that together we can do a lot more. UNESCO has accumulated great experience in protecting  and restoring cultural sites in many countries, and I believe it will cooperate with Mongolia in conducting comprehensive  historical and archaeological research often in the very cradle of many civilizations which have left their mark on world  history.
16.6 Madam President, the General Conference will discuss and adopt a proposed programme and budget. We feel  that the proposals reflect the needs of the Member States and are more results-based. Therefore, our delegation fully  supports the draft Programme and Budget for 2010-2011. Before closing, I would like to restate Mongolia’s commitment  to cooperation with UNESCO in implementing its ideals. Thank you very much for your attention.
(18.1) Mme El Abida (Maroc) (traduit de l’arabe):    Monsieur le Directeur général de l'UNESCO, Monsieur le Président de la Conférence générale, Monsieur Le  Président du Conseil exécutif, Mesdames et Messieurs les présidents et membres de délégations, Mesdames et Messieurs  les représentants d'organisations gouvernementales et non gouvernementales, Mesdames et Messieurs, permettez-moi, tout  d'abord, de féliciter sincèrement M. Davidson Hepburn à l'occasion de son élection comme Président de la Conférence  générale. J'aimerais aussi remercier M. Georges Anastassopoulos, Président de la Conférence générale précédente de  l'action remarquable qu'il a accomplie, ainsi que M. Olabiyi Babalola Joseph Yaï pour la grande compétence professionnelle  dont il a fait preuve en tant que Président du Conseil exécutif. Je tiens également, au nom du gouvernement de sa majesté  Mohamed VI, à rendre hommage à M. Koïchiro Matsuura, Directeur général sortant pour la qualité du travail qu'il a accompli à  la tête de l'Organisation et tout ce qu'il a fait pour en améliorer le fonctionnement et l'amener au niveau espéré. Je félicite,  enfin, Mme Irina Bokova de la confiance placée en elle par le Conseil exécutif. Elle est la première femme assumant la  direction de cette Organisation. Je lui souhaite plein succès dans sa mission.
(18.2) Mesdames et Messieurs, la présente session se tient dans un contexte de crise financière mondiale, de conflits et de  tensions qui n'en finissent plus, alors que les problèmes de l'environnement s'aggravent et que la pauvreté étend son empire,  nous obligeant tous ensemble, par le biais de notre Organisation, à réfléchir collectivement à une action commune. Car il nous  faut innover pour trouver des solutions radicales face à une telle situation. Dans ce contexte international, le Maroc fournit des  efforts gigantesques sous la conduite de sa majesté Mohamed VI et dans le cadre de programmes structurés qui, tous, visent  un développement global, en favorisant les investissements productifs et par l'amélioration des conditions des groupes et  régions qui en ont le plus besoin. Ainsi, le Maroc ne s'est pas contenté de poursuivre son action et de l'intensifier dans les  ateliers d'initiatives nationales pour le développement humain afin de combattre la pauvreté, l'exclusion et la précarité, mais il  a accordé à l'éducation et à la formation une attention particulière. Il les regarde, en effet, comme la voie décisive et la bataille  qu'il faut gagner pour relever le défi du développement. Le Maroc s'est employé à donner un second souffle à la réforme  engagée au début de la décennie actuelle. Il a lancé un programme d'urgence pour la période 2009-2012, fondé sur la  réflexion en partenariat, décentralisée et centrée sur les résultats. À cet effet et pour réaliser les objectifs de l'enseignement  pour tous, le Gouvernement marocain a plus que doublé les budgets consacrés au secteur de l'éducation et de la formation, à  compter de l'année 2009, affectant la plus grosse part aux conditions matérielles et éducatives nécessaires à la scolarisation.  Priorité a également été donnée à la lutte contre les obstacles sociaux et économiques afin d'offrir l'égalité des chances à tous  les enfants du pays. Il me plaît, en cette occasion, de remercier toutes les organisations spécialisées, notamment l'UNESCO,  pour le soutien qu'elles fournissent aux projets du programme d'urgence.
(18.3) Mesdames et Messieurs, la dégradation continue de l'environnement ne laisse pas de préoccuper la communauté  internationale, en raison des conséquences directes qu'elle a sur l'homme et son biotope. Face à cette situation inquiétante,  sa majesté Mohamed VI a appelé à l'élaboration, dans les plus brefs délais, d'une charte nationale de l'environnement et du  développement durable, visant à préserver l'environnement, ses réserves et ressources naturelles, mais aussi à protéger le  patrimoine culturel, en développant les énergies renouvelables, avec définition de critères précis indiquant la volonté du Maroc  de concilier entre les exigences du développement durable et celles de la protection de l'environnement. En effet, il considère  que l'environnement, étant le bien commun de l'humanité, relève de la responsabilité commune pour le bien des générations  actuelles et de celles à venir.
(18.4) Mesdames et Messieurs, l'humanité traverse une passe difficile marquée par les conflits et les querelles, sans parler  des catastrophes naturelles et des pertes humaines et naturelles qu'elles laissent dans leur sillage. Pour en sortir, il faut que  les valeurs de paix, de sécurité, de solidarité et d'égalité s'inscrivent, comme option stratégique, au cœur de notre organisation  et des responsabilités qu'elle doit assumer. Plus que jamais l'UNESCO est appelée à trouver le juste équilibre entre le soutien  et l'encadrement aux pays qui en ont le plus besoin pour qu'ils mènent à bien leurs programmes éducatifs et de  développement, d'une part, et son action en faveur de la recherche scientifique qu'elle doit activer, d'autre part. En effet,  l'UNESCO est le laboratoire mondial par excellence où naissent et se confrontent les idées en matière d’éducation, de culture  et de sciences.
(18.5) Mesdames et Messieurs, le Royaume du Maroc qui, de concert avec les pays arabes, œuvre à répandre la paix  dans le monde et au Moyen-Orient, soutient toutes les actions de reconstruction de Gaza, en faveur de l'ouverture des points  de passage pour la population en général, des étudiants et des malades en particulier, afin qu'ils accèdent à une vie digne. À  cet égard, je rends hommage à notre Organisation pour le travail mené en vue de la préservation du patrimoine mondial de la  noble ville de Jérusalem, et de l'éducation pour tous les enfants des territoires arabes occupés.
(18.6) Mesdames et Messieurs, le Royaume du Maroc, fidèle aux valeurs et principes de l'UNESCO, entend participer à  tous les programmes visant à réaliser les Objectifs du Millénaire pour le développement, notamment ceux relatifs à l'éducation  pour tous. Puissions-nous conjuguer nos efforts à cette fin et que Dieu nous guide vers le bien de l'humanité entière. Que la  paix soit avec vous.
19. The President:   Thank you very much indeed, Your Excellency. I now ask the Minister of Information and Communication of  Kenya, His Excellency Mr Samuel Poghisio to please take the floor. Welcome, Minister.
20.1 Mr Poghisio (Kenya):   Madam President, Mr Chair of the Executive Board, Mr Director-General of UNESCO, Excellencies,  distinguished delegates, ladies and gentlemen, I join my colleagues in congratulating Mr Hepburn most sincerely on his  election as President of the 35th session of the General Conference of UNESCO. On my own behalf, and on behalf of  my delegation, please accept our best wishes for a successful Conference. We have confidence that your able  leadership, experience and wisdom will enable you to effectively discharge the business of the 35th session.  Madam President, as Director-General of UNESCO, Mr Koïchiro Matsuura, has successfully steered this Organization  during his 10-year tenure, implementing far-reaching reforms that have led to a more decentralized and results-oriented  UNESCO. I congratulate him on these achievements and wish him well in all his future endeavours. I congratulate the  incoming Director-General and wish her well during her tenure in her new position.
20.2 Madam President, my delegation supports the Draft Programme and Budget for 2010-2011 as presented by the  Director-General. This Conference comes at a time when investing in education, the sciences, culture and  communication is more crucial than ever before in order to lay a firm foundation for economic recovery. It is in this regard  that Kenya supports the proposed biennial priorities as articulated in draft document 35 C/5 for education. We note that  Africa, gender equality and inclusive education continue to be significant priorities for UNESCO. This is underscored by  the fact that the Education Sector will receive an increase of 25% over the previous budget for the 2008-2009 biennium.  Madam President, heavy financial investments have enabled us in Kenya to support free primary and secondary  education, to put up additional infrastructure in terms of physical facilities, textbook supply and laboratory and ICT  equipment for schools. We have also a renewed emphasis on technical and vocational education and training (TVET), on  the provision of more teachers, on enhancing our school intake programme, implementing substantial reforms, and  expanding of access to tertiary education. Key achievements include the ongoing mainstreaming of early childhood  development and education (ECDE) into basic education, an increased primary net enrolment ratio, increased secondary  school enrolment, increased transition from primary to secondary school level, improved infrastructure to address  overcrowding in both primary and secondary schools, and the development of digital content. In higher education, the  number of public universities has increased from six to seven, with 12 constituent colleges, and the number of private  universities from 18 to 24 over the last four years. However, private universities cater for about 10% of the student  population at this level, which now stands at 140,000, 38% of whom are female. We are working hard to establish  national open universities. Madam President, we have put in place several strategies for inclusive education and training.  This includes support systems for the most vulnerable children and marginalized groups, and various subsector policies  covering, among others, ECDE, gender, HIV/AIDS, non-formal education, special needs and TVET. To enhance the  success of TVET and higher education, the government provides loans and grants to learners, with special consideration  for marginalized groups such as students from poor families, female students and students with special needs. To  ensure quality in education, the Government has established a national system for the assessment of learning  achievement. It is also working on the establishment of a national qualification framework. In order to ensure that rapid  growth in enrolment does not compromise quality, the capacity of the quality assurance bodies has been enhanced,  teachers and managers receive continuous in-service training, and all institutions have been instructed to institutionalize  internal quality assurance mechanisms. Madam President, in spite of these efforts, Kenya still faces challenges,  including the current economic recession, made worse by serious drought and famine. As a result, there is a mismatch  between available resources and the rapid growth in enrolment at all levels. Other challenges include the increased  number of vulnerable children due to famine, HIV/AIDS and other diseases, internal and external conflicts and  inadequate teachers.
20.3 Madam President, Kenya recognizes that science and technology innovation are critical for sustainable  development, poverty eradication, protection of the environment and global peace. Besides, Kenya is committed to  strengthening the role of science in sustainable development, to science education and to teacher training.
20.4 In conclusion, Madam President, culture and heritage play a central role in defining people, enhancing their  solidarity and sustaining socio-economic development in societies. In recognition of this, Kenya welcomes UNESCO’s  priority areas for the 2010-2011 biennium. In the year 2008, the Government of Kenya approved a national policy on  culture and heritage, and it joins the rest of the world community, and UNESCO in particular, in the promotion of  education, science and technology. We do this because the future of global peace and prosperity lies in a more equitable  world. Thank you for listening.
21. The President:   Thank you very much, Your Excellency. I now call on the Minister of Education, Women’s Affairs and Culture of  Tonga, His Excellency Mr Tevita Hala Palefau. Welcome.
22.1 Mr Palefau (Tonga):   Taboo to the President of the General Conference, taboo to the Chair of the Executive Board, taboo to the  Director-General of UNESCO, taboo to my fellow delegates, ladies and gentlemen. I am deeply honoured to speak in this  forum for the first time, and to bring you warm greetings from His Majesty King George Tupou V and his Government and  the people of the Kingdom of Tonga. Taboo in Tongan means “sacred”, “deserve to be honoured”. Madam President, like  all the speakers before me, I too would like to congratulate Mr Hepburn on his election to this key position and to express  my confidence in his chairmanship to lead the work of this General Conference.
22.2 Madam President, this year marks the jubilee of the establishment of the Tonga National Commission for  UNESCO. For my country, UNESCO has continued to provide a beacon of hope for poverty eradication, stability, peace  and sustainable development. It is therefore only fitting that, while I stand at this podium in front of the UNESCO family, I  take the honour to reconfirm and renew Tonga’s support for, commitment to and trust in UNESCO, a global organization  whose primary mandate and credible experience are needed now more than ever before.
22.3 First, Madam President, I would like to congratulate and commend UNESCO on its ongoing thorough reform  programmes that have successfully delivered articulate and reader-friendly documents, focused on results-based  programming, increased intersectoral and interdisciplinary activities, decentralization and full integration into the  United Nations “Delivering as One” process. I am particularly pleased to note in draft document 35 C/5 Rev. an increase  in funding in all programme sectors, particularly education for I strongly believe that investment in education and in  people must always lead the way, whether it be educating for the Millennium Develoment Goals (MDGs), education for  all (EFA). Education for sustainable development (ESD), culture of peace, climate change or ethics and so on. I salute  UNESCO also for its successful efforts in mobilizing extrabudgetary funds over past biennia and for the upcoming  biennium. This clearly demonstrates the trust that donors have in UNESCO to carry out its mission effectively and to fulfil  its commitments. Such funds have enabled the safeguarding of Tonga’s proclaimed masterpiece of the oral and  intangible heritage of humanity, the Lakalaka, through the Japanese Funds-in-Trust. Madam President, the successful  implementation and impact of UNESCO programmes at the country level depends heavily on the reinforcement of both  budgetary and staffing resources at cluster offices. The Pacific Cluster Office in Apia, Samoa, serves 16 Member States  and one Associate Member but is not fully staffed enough to be able to respond effectively to the needs of those States.  The office has long remained without advisers for education, science, culture, communication and information. This  places enormous constraints and challenges on the implementation of major programmes and Pacific initiatives  concerning, for example, EFA, ESD, cultural conventions – the Pacific World Heritage Action Plan; the Pacific World  Heritage Fund – gender equality, climate change education and knowledge societies. I wish therefore to call upon  UNESCO to improve and expedite its recruitment process and to honour its reform agenda, with particular reference to  decentralization of staff and resources to the field.
22.4 Madam President, I am compelled to join my Honourable Prime Minister and other Pacific leaders who made  presentations on global warming to the United Nations General Assembly in New York last week in asking the United  Nations, and UNESCO for that matter, to use their legitimate power to push for “honest action to mitigate and change the  wasteful energy habits of a lifetime”. Despite numerous global meetings, resolutions and publications on climate change,  I still fear for my country where more than 80% of the population lives on low-lying islands. In reality, when a tsunami  strikes, that segment of the population has no place to run to. The recent tragic and devastating earthquakes and  tsunamis in Samoa, the Solomon Islands, and Tonga – a very sad and tragic time for Pacific peoples – are exemplary  illustrations that these alarming global phenomena are a threat not only to low-lying islands but to all islands in the Pacific,  and that UNESCO’s early tsunami warning and mitigation systems are not sufficient any more to protect the destruction  of people, livelihoods, culture and our most treasured resource: our children. What can UNESCO do for our beloved  Pacific; and what can it do at the upcoming Copenhagen climate change talks in December 2009? I strongly urge  UNESCO to continue placing climate change education as a priority area in all major programmes, and to ensure that  there is more immediate action and less talk by everyone everywhere. Let climate change be an integral part of the  mission for education as well as UNESCO’s global priorities.
22.5 Madam President, in conclusion I take this opportunity to thank the Director-General of UNESCO,  Mr Koïchiro Matsuura, for his eminent and outstanding leadership during his tenure, particularly for his personal interest  and advocacy for cultural development from which we are benefiting significantly. Too often we are lost for words to  describe someone so indispensable, diligent and benevolent. On behalf of His Majesty’s Government in the Kingdom of  Tonga, I wish the Director-General well in his future undertakings and trust that his successor will continue the excellent  work that he has done. Thank you so much for your attention. Tu’a ‘ofa ‘atu.
23. The President:   Thank you very much, Your Excellency. I would now like to welcome to the floor the Minister of Education of  Angola, His Excellency Mr Antonio Burity da Silva. Welcome, Sir.
24.1 Mr da Silva (Angola) (interpretation from the Portuguese):   Mr President of the General Conference, Mr Chair of the Executive Board, Mr Director-General, honoured  guests, ladies and gentlemen, it is for me a great honour to address this august assembly which, against the backdrop of  a vast variety of cultures and forms of knowledge, assembled once again for this important event which brings together  members of the international community. Allow me, Madam President, to congratulate Mr Hepburn upon his election to  the presidency of the 35th session of the General Conference of UNESCO. Similarly, I would like to pay tribute to the  Chair of the Executive Board for his dedication and commitment during his term of office. I would in particular like to  express our sincere appreciation to the outgoing Director-General of UNESCO, Mr Koïchiro Matsuura, for his significant  contribution to the reform of this Organization with its perceptible positive knock-on effects not only in Africa but
112  throughout the world. Mr Matsuura, you may rest assured that the Government that I represent here is happy to express  its satisfaction with the outstanding way with which you discharged your responsibilities in taking UNESCO forward.
24.2 Excellencies, ladies and gentlemen, His Excellency Mr José Eduardo dos Santos, President of the Republic of  Angola, said, after almost 41 years of warfare, with all the dire social and economic consequences, that Angola has now  set on the path to a future of peace and progress. As we move in this direction, the Angolan Government is rolling out  specific action to extend throughout the country a climate of security to reconcile all Angolans, to stabilize the economy,  and to solve the daunting population problems. Indeed, we are involved in extensive national reconstruction. This is  visible everywhere on the ground, with many social and economic programmes in progress – building bridges, streets,  hospitals and other infrastructure, for example – which contribute to the well-being of the population and to pacifying  hearts and minds. This task is a hard one, especially when many people still have to gain a national awareness. The  Government of Angola is also reforming its education system, taking on new policies more in keeping with these historic  times.
24.3 The challenges of the market economy, the eradication of poverty and the promotion of sustainable  development all need coherent measures. In 2002, when peace came to Angola, the number of teachers we had  was 83,062. Now, in 2008, we are up to 179,928. Over the same period, classrooms were up from 19,012 to 50,516,  which shows the Government’s will to move towards the Millennium Development Goals. Adult education has also come  on nicely as have literacy campaigns. We now have an annual literacy rate improvement of 6.4%. We have an annual  increase in primary students of 5.6%, and one in every three Angolans is in school nowadays. The Government of  Angola is implementing a national system of science, technology and innovation as an instrument to support the  development of national capacity and human resources. Where culture is concerned, we are looking for better  coordination between cultural industries and institutions and the enhancement and dissemination of Angolan culture,  including manifestations of artistic expression. The Government has given pride of place to social communication  through the updating of legislation in the area of information and communication. For instance, we have put an end to the  state monopoly in broadcasting, in television in particular. We have opened the area up to private investment. Where  sport is concerned, Angola is African champion in basketball and we are ready to host the African Nations Football  Championship in 2010, which everyone is welcome to attend.
24.4 Finally, we would like to extend our support for Brazil’s proposal on extending the use of the Portuguese  language within UNESCO, and we welcome the Executive Board’s decision to nominate Ms Irina Bokova for Director- General of the Organization. She has outstanding, sterling qualities and the professional experience required to carry  forward UNESCO’s ideals. Thank you very much for your attention.
25. The President:   Thank you very much, Your Excellency. I would now like to invite Her Excellency Ms Dora Siliya, the Minister of  Education of Zambia to please take the floor. Thank you very much and welcome.
26.1 Ms Siliya (Zambia):   Madam President, Mr Director-General, distinguished delegates, ladies and gentlemen, Nelson Mandela once  said that education was the engine of personal development; that only education made it possible for the daughter of a  peasant to become a doctor; And that only education made it possible for the son of a miner to become the head of the  mine.
26.2 Madam President, my delegation and I wish to thank you for the opportunity to address the 35th session of the  General Conference. Muli bwanji muli tani. We bring you warm greetings from Zambia. Madam President, Zambia also  wishes to recognize the work done by the outgoing Director-General, Mr Koïchiro Matsuura. We particularly congratulate  him on his efforts in decentralizing UNESCO through regional cluster offices. We believe this initiative will assist many  Member States to work with UNESCO even more closely. We also wish to mention the Priority Africa programme and  gender equality initiative. We further wish to congratulate Mr Hepburn on his election as President of the 35th session of  the General Conference. We took heed of his words yesterday: if you aim at nothing you will hit the target.
26.3 Madam President, Zambia’s development agenda is clearly articulated in our 2030 vision, which reflects our  aspiration to transform into a middle-income nation by 2030. Education is expected to play a key role by providing the  necessary human development in this social and economic transformation process. As such, our mission at the Ministry  of Education in Zambia is to enable and provide an education system that will meet the needs of Zambia and its people.  In the immediate term, Madam President, Zambia’s development agenda, as articulated in the fifth national development  plan (2006-2010), has aimed to achieve sustained positive economic growth of up to 10%. In the education sector in  particular, our current development agenda centres on increasing access, equity and quality. I am happy to report,  Madam President, that the enrolment ratios for girls and boys from grades 1 to 4 is now 1:1. We know we need to do  quite a lot to achieve gender parity at high school. Gross enrolment at grades 1 to 9 also increased by 5% in 2009  compared to 2008. In 2003, the government also introduced a return policy for pregnant girls after they have given birth.  To allow for further access, Madam President, we liberalized the education sector in 1992 to allow for private sector  participation.
26.4 As I mentioned earlier, Madam President, our goal over the last five years has been to achieve economic growth  of up to 10%. However, our average growth has only been 5%, posing a challenge as far as distribution of national  resources is concerned. Recently the situation has been made worse by the world financial crisis. Madam President, we  in Zambia appreciate the direct link between educated citizens and economic expansion. This is why our President, His  Excellency Mr Rupiah Banda, often reiterates that education is the true passport out of poverty. The question is how we,  like many other Member States, continue to support education against the backdrop of the financial crisis.  Madam President, investment in education is an economic investment. To choose not to invest in education is a matter
113  too difficult for my Government to even contemplate. To achieve our 2030 vision of becoming a wealthy nation, we have  to transform from a copper and agriculture-based economy into an agro-processing and manufacturing-based economy.  This transformation calls for a critical mass of educated citizens with the necessary skills and, much more importantly,  the necessary values such as self-discipline, hard work, respect for others, tolerance, and being against corruption and  for democratic ideals. We have the will, Madam President, and an opportunity to grow our economy and to redirect our  energies towards investments in science, mathematics and technology, and training in management and  entrepreneurialship. But at the same time, we have to continue to meet our other needs such as health and infrastructure  development. Once again, Madam President, we reaffirm our commitment to achieving universal primary education  by 2015. Our goal is to have completed 16,000 classrooms by 2015 to absorb all primary-school children. In the last four  years, over 23,000 teachers have been recruited to bring down the high teacher-pupil ratio. We will also continue with  free education and provision of teaching materials at primary level.
26.5 Madam President, we in Zambia know where we want to go and we have a plan to get there, as outlined in our  fifth and upcoming sixth national development plan (for 2011-2016). We wish to become a wealthy nation by 2030. We  invite UNESCO and other cooperating partners to continue to work with us on our journey. I thank you, Madam President.
27. The President:   Thank you very much indeed, Your Excellency. Could I now call on the Minister of Education and Culture of the  Netherlands Antilles, Her Excellency Ms Omayra Leeflang, to take the floor. Welcome.
28.1 Ms Leeflang (Netherlands Antilles):   Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, as Minister of Education and Culture of the Netherlands Antilles, I am  very honoured to once again participate in this General Conference. We would like to share some achievements with you.  Our education system has experienced a renaissance since the formalization in 2007 of the Creole language,  Papiamentu, as an official language, together with Dutch and English. We did not sit still following the formalization, but  focused our attention on having an official spelling of Papiamentu, which came out in the publication Buki di Oro or  Golden Book, in recognition of the language. Furthermore, the Government of the Netherlands Antilles has committed  itself to pay more attention to so-called minority languages, in this case Papiamentu and English. As I stand before you  here today, I am also proud to say that the first catechism written in the Papiamentu language, submitted by the  Netherlands Antilles, has been included in the Memory of the World Register – and also the Memory of the World  Register for Latin America and the Caribbean – in 2009.
28.2 Madam President, in the last biennium we called UNESCO’s attention to the fact that our Caribbean boys were  falling behind in education. We approached UNESCO for funding, through the Participation Programme, to investigate  gender differentials in school participation on the islands of the Netherlands Antilles. The data collection phase of this  research project has been completed and the results thereof will be presented at a national conference this November.  Anticipating this presentation of the final results, I can already state that there are indeed many different factors leading  to boys’ educational problems, of which society’s demands and expectations are most crucial. Our education system  seems to be in favour of girls. Our research project indicates that the way we are teaching young children at school is  very much female centred, disregarding the differences in learning and not making a distinction in interests between boys  and girls. We will share the results and proposals for solutions with the region and all who struggle with the problem of  boys’ underachievement. The project definitely will be a source for data-driven policy reform in the Netherlands Antilles.
28.3 Madam President, globalization of the Caribbean small island developing States (SIDS) and governance for  sustainable development are the focus of the UNESCO Chair we are seeking to establish at the University of the  Netherlands Antilles, which will serve to document cases of SIDS and to identify the best practices with regard to good  governance, sustainable development and creative economy. Another proposed UNESCO Chair in water technology,  which aims to be a centre of excellence in the Caribbean region and Latin America for high-quality academic education  and research.
28.4 Madam President, two years ago I informed the assembly of the important changes that the Netherlands Antilles  is going through. I can inform you that on 10 October 2010 the Netherlands Antilles will cease to exist, becoming two  autonomous countries, within the Kingdom of the Netherlands: Curaçao and St Maarten. I would like to ask UNESCO  and its Member States, especially our partner in the Kingdom of the Netherlands, as well as Associate Members to  support the applications of Curaçao and St Maarten to become Associate Members of this wonderful Organization when  the moment arises. We count on each and every one’s support in realizing this. In closing, I express my gratitude to you  all for listening to our three languages: Machadangitekgusia. Thank you very much.
29. The President:   Thank you very much, Your Excellency. May I now call on the Minister of Education and Science of Ireland, His  Excellency Mr Sean Haughey, to please take the floor.
30.1 Mr Haughey (Ireland):   Madam President, Mr Director-General, Excellencies, ladies and gentlemen, when this great Organization was  founded over 60 years ago, it was with the certainty that peace and prosperity relies not just on political and economic  arrangements, but also on our “intellectual and moral solidarity” and on the “wide diffusion of culture and the education of  humanity for justice, liberty and peace”. UNESCO’s mandate remains suited to our times. For global problems, there  must be global responses.
30.2 Nowhere is the leadership of UNESCO more vital than in the effort to achieve universal access to primary  education. The significant increases in primary school enrolments over the past decade in many partner countries in sub- Saharan Africa gives cause for hope. However, despite this progress, 77 million children are still denied the opportunity
114  to go to school. There is also serious concern about the deterioration in the quality of education being provided at all  levels. Ireland’s approach to these issues is set out in Irish Aid’s education policy, “Building Sustainable Education  Systems for Poverty Reduction”. This policy reflects the important contribution of education to achieving the primary goal  of our development programme: poverty reduction. Ireland will continue to focus on education in its development  programmes, supporting our partner countries to meet the challenge of providing quality education for many of the  millions of children who are still out of school. Ireland recognizes that UNESCO and its institutions are critically important  partners in monitoring progress and strengthening analytical and planning capacity in support of education for all (EFA).  The EFA Global Monitoring Report continues to be an excellent source of information on progress towards the EFA goals.
30.3 Our heritage is a presence which physically expresses the essence and the heartbeat of our collective historical  identity. We embrace the important role of UNESCO in the promotion and protection of World Heritage properties and in  the creation of a sense of shared heritage globally. There are significant challenges for UNESCO in its heritage role. In  the face of ever-increasing development pressures, climate change, conflict and other factors, there is a need for  continued commitment to the preservation of properties of cultural and natural heritage, and to balance the need to  protect fragile world heritage properties with sustainable tourism. The Irish Government is committed to implementing the  objectives of the World Heritage Convention and to the continued protection and preservation of our inscribed properties  and the properties on our Tentative List. Ireland’s vision for the future of the Convention is that the most outstanding  cultural and natural heritage properties around the world must be acknowledged and valued. But crucially, they must also  be protected and preserved for the benefit of all. The future of Convention implementation lies in cooperation,  partnerships and striking a balance between conservation and appropriate sustainable development. We in Ireland are  very conscious of the potential impacts of climate change on both cultural and natural world heritage properties.  Research is under way in order to risk assess and monitor the impact of climate change on our world heritage properties.  Ireland will be happy to share its findings with other States Parties when the research is completed. Ireland signed up to  the World Heritage Convention 18 years ago. Having gained experience since then we are endeavouring this year to  expand our role in the World Heritage area. Delegations will be aware that Ireland has announced its candidature for this  year’s elections for membership of the World Heritage Committee. If we are fortunate enough to be elected, we will work  in a spirit of partnership to effectively participate in the business of the World Heritage Committee for the duration of the  four-year mandate.
30.4 Ireland also continues to support efforts to promote the ratification of the Convention on the Protection and  Promotion of the Diversity of Cultural Expressions internationally and will work with our European Union colleagues and  the European Commission to advance its implementation.
30.5 UNESCO is making a significant contribution to the worldwide fight against doping in sport through the  International Convention Against Doping in Sport. Drug abuse in sport remains a real threat today and Ireland's  ratification of the Convention signals our continuing support in the global fight against this problem. It is important that  there is a coordinated international effort if we are to effectively combat those who engage in drug abuse in sport. This  Convention is a clear illustration of how serious governments around the world are taking the issue of doping in sport.
30.6 Ireland would like to commend UNESCO’s new geoparks initiative and to support UNESCO in that regard.
30.7 In Ireland, we were also very proud that the National University of Ireland (NUI) Galway this year became the  first university in our country to host one of the global networks of UNESCO Chairs under the UNTWIN programme. At  the inauguration of this Chair, our Head of State, President McAleese praised UNESCO as “the champion of change for  children, the advocate through whose efforts each generation tries to shift the weight of skewed history from off the  shoulders of the young”. These are major challenges, Madam President. Ireland commends UNESCO for its work and  looks forward to working closely on these areas of great importance in the future. Thank you
31. The President:   Thank you very much indeed, Minister. I would now like to welcome the Minister of Education, Culture and  Human Resources of Mauritius, His Excellency Mr Vasant Kumar Bunwaree. Welcome.
32.1 Mr Bunwaree (Mauritius):   Madam President, distinguished delegates, ladies and gentlemen. It is indeed a great pleasure for me to  address you today on the occasion of the 35th session of the General Conference of UNESCO. I would like to extend to  all of you the greetings of the people of the Republic of Mauritius. I wish to congratulate the President on his election to  steer the work of our General Conference. I also wish to express my deepest appreciation to the Director-General,  Mr Koïchiro Matsuura, for his outstanding leadership, and for his relentless efforts to bring reforms in the management of  the affairs of UNESCO through the notions of accountability and results-based management. I wish him well in his future  endeavours.
32.2 Madam President, UNESCO’s mandate in the construction of a better world is unique. It is the only organ of the  United Nations system upon which is entrusted the immense responsibility of promoting world peace, development and  well-being through the education, science, culture, information and communication. The holistic approach, and the spirit  of mutual cooperation and dialogue that has accompanied the Organization over the years in accomplishing this  formidable challenge has added to its pre-eminence and its growing relevance to the family of nations.
32.3 We are meeting here this year in the aftermath of a very difficult world economic crisis; the world has witnessed  a situation of economic meltdown that has been auguring dire, unprecedented, consequences. Today more than ever the  world is undergoing rapid transformations and experiencing great progress in diverse fields of human activity. Meanwhile,  the development deficit confronting countries in the developing world, especially in Africa, makes of poverty, hunger and  the denial of basic needs, further compounded by the global economic recession, a long-enduring cause of great distress
115  and suffering. The African Continent in general, and sub-Saharan Africa in particular, are among the most hard hit. It is  high time now for UNESCO and the international community to move forward and to propose concrete measures to  address the issues on this global agenda. Mauritius supports UNESCO in all such initiatives. I wish to commend the  UNESCO Secretariat’s efforts to pursue the two priorities enunciated in the Medium-Term Strategy for 2008-2013,  namely Africa and gender equality. We do, however, believe that UNESCO can do more and reach out to those countries  and peoples that are most in need of help, those that need to break the vicious cycle of poverty, that need to see a  brighter future for their children, free from the scourges of war and disease. That is why Mauritius believes that UNESCO  should insist on more efficient allocation of scarce resources to its priority objectives.
32.4 The leading role UNESCO has played within the framework of education for all (EFA) and the Millennium  Development Goals is universally acknowledged. The building of peace, the alleviation of poverty and sustainable  development all hinge on progress achieved in rendering society more inclusive, equitable and knowledgeable. We  strongly believe it is only through education that the differences in terms of culture, beliefs and norms can be minimized.  We are convinced that the path to alleviate poverty begins with education, and that education begins with literacy. It is an  undeniable fact that higher literacy rates correlate with lower rates of HIV/AIDS and create better awareness of climate  change-related issues as well as issues pertaining to sustainable development. As an island State, we are most  vulnerable to the effects of global warming and climate change. New threats are also continuously popping up and we  must be prepared. The H1N1 influenza pandemic is another example.
32.5 Disasters come and go without warning. We were, for instance, deeply affected on hearing about the loss of so  many children during the tsunami that hit Samoa last week. I join my voice to all others in presenting our condolences to  my Samoan fellow Minister for this disaster which has struck young people particularly. This again highlights the  vulnerability of small States to calamities.  (The speaker continues in French)
32.6 Madame la Présidente, je suis heureux de constater que l’UNESCO a fait sienne la bataille de la préservation  de la capacité des petits états insulaires de gérer leur destinée. Notre Organisation a su développer une approche  holistique et interdisciplinaire en ce qu’il s’agit du changement climatique, alignée sur la Déclaration et la Stratégie de  Maurice. C’est effectivement dans cette optique que l’Île Maurice a développé, avec le soutien de l’UNESCO, le projet  « Maurice, île durable », qui repose fondamentalement sur deux piliers majeurs : primo, l’économie des énergies  utilisables, et secundo, l’émergence des petits producteurs indépendants d’énergies renouvelables. Il est utile de  souligner que nous organisons en 2011 à Maurice le « Forum écologique mondial ». Je tiens ici également à remercier  l’UNESCO pour la signature d’un accord de coopération.  (L’orateur reprend en anglais)
32.7 Madam Chair, I stand before you as spokesman for our Government and our people who believe in intrinsic  values that promote peace, harmony and social justice. In a multicultural set-up such as Mauritius, intercultural dialogue  has been instrumental in the consolidation of national unity. Mauritius upholds the principles of UNESCO in the  promotion of artistic creativity, in cultural development and in the preservation of heritage. Our country has been  fortunate to have had in the late Sir Seewoosagur Ramgoolam, the first Prime Minister and father of our nation, an  architect of modern Mauritius. In spite of the dire economic straits in which we were just after independence in 1968, he  fought against all odds to introduce, maintain and preserve free primary, secondary and tertiary education. This is why  UNESCO has recently deemed it fit to issue coins bearing the effigy of Sir Seewoosagur Ramgoolam, as a tribute to a  world leader who, through his actions in a small country like Mauritius, had taught the world the lessons enshrined in the  EFA goals and left indelible footprints in history.
32.8 Allow me, before ending, to assure the incoming Director-General of the continued support of the Republic of  Mauritius. I wish UNESCO plenty of success. We will look in the same direction and face the challenges together. I thank  you for your kind attention.
33. The President:   Thank you very much, Minister. I now call upon the Minister of Civil Affairs of Bosnia and Herzegovina, His  Excellency Mr Sredoje Nović to please take the floor. Welcome, Minister.
34.1 Mr Nović (Bosnia and Herzegovina) (interpretation from the Bosnian):   Dear Madam President, distinguished ladies and gentlemen, Your Excellencies, please allow me to greet you on  behalf of the delegation of Bosnia and Herzegovina, and to express my pleasure at attending this session of the General  Conference of UNESCO. I would like to express our support for the Programme and Budget for 2010-2011 in the fields of  education, natural sciences, social sciences, culture and communication and information. Bosnia and Herzegovina is  determined to act to implement the main UNESCO programme goals in the above-mentioned fields, and to adopt the  relevant UNESCO legal instruments and ensure mechanisms for their implementation.
34.2 Ongoing activities in Bosnia and Herzegovina on education reform aim to build an education system fit to  respond to the challenges of the globalization era. The goal is to ensure education for all (EFA), to respect diversity and,  particularly, to bear in mind the needs of minorities. Cooperation in the field of education, exchanges of experience and  applying best practices are the safe ways of achieving long-term prosperity. We have adopted a framework law on higher  education in Bosnia and Herzogovina based on the fundamental principles of the Bologna values, and we adopted the  education development strategy in Bosnia until 2015. One of the goals in this document is closer cooperation between  higher education and scientific and research work, and the development of an institutionalized network for research and  development at all higher education institutions. This particularly implies the provision of modern infrastructure and  equipment, restructuring, and the employment of new teaching and scientific personnel. It is our strategic determination
116  to complete the process of including higher education in the European Higher Education and Research Area by 2015,  with efficient rates of enrolment and study completion, and with sufficient funds for research and international educational  and scientific cooperation and exchange. Cooperation in the field of science has become a priority. We have been  working on the construction and reconstruction of the science infrastructure in my country, but we are aware at the same  time that major results in this field can be achieved only through connections with the global scientific and research  networks. Promotion of science and technological education, building social awareness about the opportunities offered  by science and technology, capacity-building for creation of science, technological innovation policies, and regional and  international cooperation in the fields of science and technology are only some of the priorities. The field of science and  technology in Bosnia is included as a separate chapter in the mid-term development strategy of Bosnia as a precondition  for the country’s economic development. Our science and research strengths are in the fields of medicine, biotechnical  sciences, technical sciences, the natural sciences, ecology and research on climate change. A significant portion pertain  to the human sciences. The building of the science and technological potential of Bosnia and Herzegovina is based on  UNESCO recommendations through the three goals of training the new generation of scientists at universities at home or  abroad, developing research infrastructure in line with international standards, and reinvesting in industrial research in  certain sectors.
34.3 Bosnia has signed up to the Convention on the Protection and Promotion of the Diversity of Cultural Expressions,  the Convention on the Protection of the Underwater Cultural Heritage and the Landscape Convention. We have been  working in cooperation with the UNESCO Office in Sarajevo to implement the Convention for the Safeguarding of the  Intangible Cultural Heritage. We are fully determined to implement the World Heritage Convention efficiently and we  hope that in addition to the Mehmed Paša Sokolović Bridge in Vishigrad and the Old Bridge in Mostar, other cultural  properties will be inscribed on the UNESCO World Heritage List. Bosnia has put forward its candidacy for the World  Heritage Committee and I hereby invite the delegations present to support our candidacy during the election of the new  members of this extremely important Committee. May I take this opportunity to inform you of the regional initiative by my  country, with support from colleagues from Croatia and Serbia and Montenegro, to initiate joint activities for the  nomination of Bosnian medieval tombstones for inscription on the World Heritage List as a joint regional project,  including a related letter of intention that we will sign soon. Owing to the cultural heritage and the highest value of  material and spiritual culture, it is possible to enhance mutual cooperation and coordination within integration processes  through bringing cultures closer to do joint work in this field, joint projects and programmes; because the value of cultural  heritage goes beyond all borders.
34.4 Multi-ethnicity and multiculturalism characterize Bosnia and the whole of the Western Balkans. Dialogue and  cooperation are therefore very important for our region to develop unity of our diversity as a richness that make us  recognizable. The role of UNESCO is particularly important in the field of communication and dialogue among the  various cultures and religions because it is possible to build long-term peace and stability solely through intercultural  dialogue. It is exactly the UNESCO mission that helps build a better future through mutual understanding, tolerance and  respect for diversity, while cooperation in the fields of education, science and culture represent the fundamentals of this  goal. Please allow me once again to express the readiness of Bosnia and Herzegovina to make its contribution to the  achievement of UNESCO’s goals and activities. We are very grateful to Mr Matsuura for his objective and balanced  approach in leading UNESCO. Bosnia and Herzegovina expresses full support to Ms Irina Bokova, future Director- General, because we are convinced she will be successful in her work and leadership of UNESCO. Thank you for your  attention.
35. The President:   Thank you very much indeed, Minister. I would now like to invite to take the floor the Minister of Information and  Communication Technology of Colombia, Her Excellency Ms Maria del Rosario Guerra. Welcome.
(36.1) Mme del Rosario Guerra (Colombie) (traduit de l’espagnol) :   Monsieur le Président, Mesdames et Messieurs, le Gouvernement colombien, sous la conduite du Président de la  République Álvaro Uribe Vélez, saisit cette occasion pour remercier l’Organisation de son soutien et son accompagnement  tout au long du mandat du Directeur général, M. Koïchiro Matsuura. Le Gouvernement colombien félicite également Mme Irina  Bokova de son élection au poste de Directrice générale, l’appuie dans son mandat et lui adresse ses vœux de réussite.
(36.2) La Colombie a accompli d’importants progrès dans la satisfaction des besoins d’éducation de sa population avec  cinq grandes mesures adoptées par le gouvernement du Président Álvaro Uribe Vélez. Premièrement, concernant  l’apprentissage tout au long de la vie, les opportunités des plus vulnérables en matière d’éducation sont en train de s’améliorer  grâce à un modèle de prise en charge intégrale de la petite enfance, à la coordination de tous les cycles éducatifs, au recours  à des modèles souples, et à l’élargissement de l’offre publique de formation professionnelle. L’éducation de qualité pour  l’innovation, la compétitivité et la paix est centrée sur le développement du talent humain, le renforcement de l’institution  éducative comme cellule de base et la modernisation constante du secteur, grâce à une affectation rationnelle des ressources,  la mise en œuvre de systèmes d’information coordonnés et la gestion participative qui favorise une éducation inclusive,  fondée sur des références communes et un modèle de fonctionnement propice à la participation sociale. Le Plan national  décennal d’éducation 2006-2016 a été élaboré dans ce cadre, et constitue le pacte social des Colombiens pour le droit à  l’éducation. Nous avons beaucoup progressé dans le domaine de l’éducation comme facteur essentiel d’équité, de  compétitivité et de construction de la paix, si bien que nous atteignons aujourd’hui un taux de couverture de 120 % pour  l’enseignement primaire, 100 % pour le premier cycle et 76 % pour le deuxième cycle du secondaire, et de 36 % pour  l’enseignement supérieur. Il nous reste cependant un long chemin à parcourir et de nombreuses difficultés à surmonter.
(36.3) La Colombie reconnaît en l’UNESCO un allié stratégique de sa politique culturelle, notamment dans les domaines de  la diversité et des industries culturelles. Nous partageons sa vision selon laquelle la culture est un moteur du développement  économique et social des peuples et crée du lien social. Nos politiques publiques s’inspirent des idéaux de l’UNESCO et  mettent en pratique les thématiques lancées ou défendues par l’Organisation ces dernières années. La Colombie est un pays  pluriethnique et multiculturel. Reconnaître et encourager la diversité culturelle est essentiel pour nous construire en tant que  nation. C’est dans cette optique que nous avons lancé le programme pour la protection de la diversité ethnolinguistique, la  politique de sauvegarde du patrimoine culturel immatériel et la politique pour la promotion des industries culturelles. À cet  égard, deux instruments de l’UNESCO ont montré la voie : la Convention pour la sauvegarde du patrimoine culturel immatériel  et la Convention sur la protection et la promotion de la diversité des expressions culturelles. S’agissant du patrimoine culturel,  nous poursuivons nos efforts et notre engagement en faveur de l’action de l’UNESCO. C’est pourquoi nous avons présenté  des candidatures et nous méritons que de nouveaux biens soient inscrits sur les différentes listes du patrimoine de l’humanité.
(36.4) L’un des principaux objectifs de l’UNESCO est de parvenir à bâtir des sociétés du savoir inclusives. Nous estimons  que le premier pas vers la réalisation de ce projet est l’accès à l’information de la communauté scientifique dans tous les  domaines. Il est donc capital que l’UNESCO aide à identifier toutes les possibilités qui existent en matière de libre accès à  l’information. D’autres actions concrètes pourraient consister à créer des mécanismes de concertation et de coordination entre
118  les acteurs publics et privés au sujet de l’accès libre, initiatives pour lesquelles les pays en développement ont besoin d’un  appui, principalement dans les processus établis avec des entités commerciales.
(36.5) Nous poursuivons le processus d’examen des réserves de biosphère, sur lequel fonder l’administration et la gestion  des zones protégées et durables de la Colombie. Les forums organisés par l’UNESCO au Salvador et dans l’île de Jeju  (Corée) ont permis de connaître l’état actuel des réserves de biosphère et d’élaborer des plans d’action applicables au  territoire andin. Nous convenons avec l’UNESCO que l’axe central pour le développement durable est l’eau et mon  gouvernement remercie l’Organisation et ses pays membres de la confiance qu’il a reçue lors de la création, en Colombie, du  Centre régional sur la gestion des eaux urbaines pour l’Amérique latine et les Caraïbes.
(36.6) Concernant les technologies de l’information et de la communication, la Colombie s’est considérablement  rapprochée de son objectif de parvenir à ce que tous les Colombiens soient davantage connectés et mieux informés.  Actuellement, 44 % de la population a accès à Internet et 90 % à la téléphonie mobile. Je tiens à souligner la promulgation de  la loi 13.41, en juillet dernier, qui définit le cadre général de la formulation des politiques publiques qui régiront le secteur des  TIC dans les années à venir. Je signale ici l’importance de cette loi pour un développement socioéconomique reposant sur  ces technologies, comme source d’inclusion sociale, d’amélioration de la compétitivité et de consolidation de la société de  l’information et du savoir. Nous reconnaissons la nécessité de continuer à promouvoir des médias libres, facteurs de  démocratie, mais de plus en plus responsables de leur rôle d’acteurs dans la création de valeurs et de citoyenneté. Nous  réaffirmons, en outre, que les perspectives qu’offre le secteur des TIC pour le développement sont vastes et que la Colombie  y a recours. Je vous remercie.
37. The President:   Thank you very much indeed, Your Excellency. Could I now call on the Minister of Higher Education and  Training of South Africa, His Excellency Mr Nzimande, to take the floor. Welcome, Excellency.
38.1 Mr Nzimande (South Africa):   President of the General Conference, and congratulations on your election, Director-General, fellow delegates, it  is a privilege and an honour for South Africa to contribute to this very important series of debates at this Conference. This  Conference takes place in the midst of a global financial and economic crisis. This places enormous strains on all  countries in the United Nations system. The President of South Africa, Mr Jacob Zuma, stated at the opening of the  United Nations General Assembly recently in New York that the economic crisis should not be an excuse to delay further  action on the delivery of the Millennium Development Goals (MDGs). Rather it should urge us to double our efforts to  achieve greater focus.
38.2 UNESCO’s commitment to lead the global education agenda and coordinate international efforts in education is  crucial. The mobilization of political and financial commitments through engagement with education for all (EFA) partners,  as well as structures such as the G8, must be strengthened. The estimated $8.3 billion required annually by Africa to  achieve the Millennium Development Goals and the EFA goals by 2015, and the heavy shortfall faced by the catalytic  fund of the EFA Fast-Tract Initiative, place Africa at serious risk. As with the economic crisis, climate change will have its  most severe impact on the poor. We need to examine progress concerning education for sustainable development and  formulate strategies for the implementation of programmes for the second half of the United Nations Decade. We must  promote increased aid as well as aim at improving its utility in line with the 2008 Accra Declaration on Aid Effectiveness.  Africa does not expect foreign funding to meet all its needs. Indeed, our ultimate aim is, through development, to  eliminate the need for such aid. Even in the current difficult circumstances, the governments of Africa are committed to  prioritizing education and training, and to using all means at our disposal to ensure that our children’s needs are met. We  do not shirk our primary responsibility for ensuring the development of our own countries, but Africa does need, now,  generous but united assistance that recognizes the specific needs of individual countries and the principal and central  role of national governments in setting their own development agenda.
38.3 As outgoing Chair of the Conference of African Ministers of Education (COMEDAF), we must ensure that  UNESCO continues to support the African Union in implementing the Second Decade of Education for Africa’s plan of  action. Higher education plays a vital role in tackling many of the challenges we face. As emphasized at the World  Conference on Higher Education, higher education is a public good and is the responsibility of all stakeholders,  especially governments. We must continue to work towards increasing both access and quality of higher education,  particularly in Africa where enrolments remain extremely low. Higher education contributes to sustainable development,  peace and the realization of human rights, including gender equity; and, may I add also, a platform to promote human  welfare and human solidarity. South Africa has recognized the importance of investing in human development during this  economic downturn and, together with our labour unions, we have taken steps to reskill workers affected by the global  crisis in order to minimize mass retrenchments, and in anticipation of an inevitable recovery.
38.4 In the area of culture, we look forward to the establishment of two category 2 centres in Africa: a regional centre  for the living arts in Africa in Burkina Faso, and the African World Heritage Fund in my country, South Africa.
38.5 In closing, Madam President, we look forward in 239 days to extending our hospitality as we witness history in  the making when the African continent hosts its first FIFA soccer World Cup. We have been afforded a strategic  opportunity to focus global attention on the need to mobilize support for the education for all imperatives through the one  goal campaign, which urges donor countries to honour the commitments made towards education in the developing  world. Unless these commitments are carried through, we face the real prospect of aid-dependent countries in the region  being severely constrained in meeting the Millennium Development Goals.
38.6 Lastly, I wish to give thanks to the Director-General for his leadership, during which time South Africa also had  the opportunity to serve on the Executive Board, and would want to wish the incoming Director-General the very best.  South Africa will offer our full support and cooperation. I thank you.
39. The President:   Thank you very much, Your Excellency. I would now like to invite to take the floor the Minister of Education,  Sports and Culture of Samoa, His Excellency Mr Toomata Alapati Poese Toomata. Welcome.
40.1 Mr Toomata (Samoa):   Madam President, Mr Chair of the Executive Board, honourable ministers, Excellencies, distinguished delegates,  ladies and gentlemen, talofa, bonjour, greetings to you all. It is indeed a pleasure to be here again at UNESCO House  and joining others in congratulating His Excellency Mr Hepburn, on his election to preside over the deliberations of the
35th session of the General Conference.
40.2 Madam President, I bring warm greetings from my small island nation of Samoa. Samoa recognizes that  UNESCO has come a long way since its journey began in the 1940s. Despite the many challenges, we can reflect with  pride on a track record of achievements made. UNESCO today is stronger and more confident, persistent and committed  to maintaining peace and human dignity. We are indeed privileged to be a Member of UNESCO. Today we are gathered  again to review and evaluate our Organization’s achievement of our plans in the Medium-Term Strategy for 2008-2013,  and to refocus our efforts in our Programme and Budget for 2010-2011. We are pleased to note that the needs and  concerns of developing countries are well reflected in the Medium-Term Strategy. We acknowledge with full support the  effort to revise the Draft Programme and Budget for 2010-2011 in the face of the global financial crisis that has imposed  severe financial, economic and social hardships and uncertainties on all our member countries.
40.3 Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, while there have been encouraging achievements in the 2008-2009  biennium, concerns persist in some areas and I wish to note a few that are important to us. First, in information  technologies, despite significant advances in the creation and sharing of knowledge through information and  communication technologies, great inequalities persist in Pacific island nations preventing them from utilizing these  technologies due to high costs and insufficient technical expertise. The resulting divides, which are exacerbated by the  current economic crisis, call for specific UNESCO action and assistance.
40.4 Secondly, global warming is the most life-threatening issue to the Pacific region and its small island States.  Some Pacific States are low-lying atolls and the threat of sea-level rise is a very apparent reality which calls for  immediate UNESCO initiatives. The Director-General at the international seminar on climate change education in  July 2009 correctly stated: “Global warming is the defining issue of our time. Sustainable development simply cannot be  achieved without a stable climate.” How very true, Mr Director-General. Excellencies, ladies and gentlemen, Samoa  requests UNESCO to refocus closer attention on climate change and its effects on the fragile environments of the Pacific  island States, and on the need to consolidate efforts on disaster management preparedness. In view of the recent  earthquake and the first ever tsunami to hit the Samoan shores, bringing huge devastation and loss of life only recently,  disaster preparedness cannot be emphasized enough as a top priority. May I, as an aside, take this opportunity to  acknowledge and thank the Honourable Prime Minister of Malaysia for his kind words of consolation and offer of  assistance to the small island States of our region; likewise, my appreciation to the Minister of Education, Culture and  Human Resources of Mauritius. In such times of devastation and loss of life, counselling services precede material  assistance in importance. Radical change in the ways we think and act, especially in education and teacher training, as  the Director General has stressed, are pertinent. We support UNESCO’s view that climate change is an integral part of  education for sustainable development and that an interdisciplinary approach to climate change would be most essential.  We strongly urge UNESCO’s leadership in this area. I cannot emphasize it enough, Madam President, immediate  initiatives must be made to address the issue of climate change by all countries, in particular the better developed and  powerful industrialized countries of the world. Climate-change effects will affect all nations, but we, the small island  States, will bear the full brunt of climate-change devastation in the blink of an eye. Madam President and distinguished  delegates, our plea is not for sympathy but for action.
40.5 Lastly, Madam President, the Participation Programme of UNESCO has been out of reach for Samoa for a  number of years now. A wide range of initiatives on very familiar programme UNESCO themes once benefited Samoa in  the past. National policies and strategies linked to education for all (EFA) and the Millennium Development Goals  (MDGs), literacy the environment and sustainable development, gender, advancement of women and youth, HIV/AIDs  awareness and many others had been realized by our country through the Participation Programme. Those,  Madam President, are many examples of the quality opportunities that were available and may not become accessible to  Samoa again if it continues to be excluded from this Programme. Honourable Madam President, we request our right to  UNESCO’s assistance to enable us to regain eligibility and access to the Participation Programme.
40.6 On a more positive note, we thank UNESCO for establishing a link between the Nelson Public Memorial Library  in our capital and libraries in some other Pacific countries through the installation of the KOHA Library System, which  enables library staff to view from Samoa book titles which are available in other libraries in New Zealand and Australia.  Lastly, Samoa would uphold all UNESCO’s efforts in strengthening partnership with Member States and other agencies  on the theme, “multiplicity of networks and partnerships”.
40.7 To conclude, Madam President, Excellencies, ladies and gentlemen, we look forward to an opportunity also to  explore beautiful Paris, the home of our Organization. Merci beaucoup, thank you and God bless our UNESCO.
41. The President:   Thank you very much indeed, Minister, and our thanks particularly for coming. I think the fact that you have  come in spite of the recent disaster in your country underlines the importance of what UNESCO does, and I thank you.  May I now welcome to the floor our final speaker for this morning, the Deputy Minister of Education of Malaysia, His  Excellency Mr Mohd Puad Zarkashi. Welcome, Minister.
42.1 Mr Zarkashi (Malaysia):   Madam President, Excellencies, distinguished delegates, ladies and gentlemen, salamu alaikum and a very  good afternoon. I am deeply honoured to be here today to address the 35th session of the General Conference of  UNESCO on behalf of the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Education of Malaysia. I would like to associate myself  with other speakers in congratulating His Excellency Mr Hepburn on his election as President. I am confident that under  his able guidance and leadership, this Organization will be directed to greater achievements. Allow me also to express  our heartfelt appreciation to the outgoing Director-General of UNESCO, Mr Koïchiro Matsuura, for his distinguished  service to the Organization, and to congratulate Ms Irina Bokova, who is to be formally elected as UNESCO’s first  woman Director-General. On behalf of the people and the Government of Malaysia, I wish to thank UNESCO and  Director-General Matsuura for inviting our Prime Minister, Honourable Dr Dato’ Sri Mohd Najib bin Haji Tun Abdul Razak  to address the General Conference. At home, Prime Minister Najib is well known for his firm belief in the value of mutual  trust and respect between people of different faiths and cultures. In his address to the General Conference two days ago,  he expounded the vision of one world, a world where durable peace prevails. This clarion call for one world is truly  predicated on this belief, which is at the root of his One Malaysia agenda.
42.2 Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the tsunami force of the current global economic meltdown has not  only brought us untold suffering and hardship, but has also awakened us with a renewed sense of universal kinship and  humanity. Although we are shocked and saddened, our commitment to education must never waver. Any decline in  funds, especially to basic education will threaten to reverse the progress made towards universal primary education. In  fact, we must continue to invest in education, to spiral out of this quagmire and to attain our education for all (EFA) and  Millennium Development Goals (MDGs). Mindful of the Oslo Declaration in 2009, Malaysia has allocated 5.7% of its GDP,  or $8.5 billion, or 23% of our national operating budget to education. Malaysia recognizes that literacy is the cornerstone  of lifelong learning and that human capital development must begin with our children. As such, early childhood care and  education should be part of the general education process to foster early learning and school readiness. This emphasis  is consistent with UNESCO’s focus in the next biennium, 2010-2011. In Malaysia, our early childhood programme comes  under the purview of the Prime Minister’s department. This programme not only prepares children aged zero to four for  learning, but also provides an environment for them to mingle freely and communicate with others from different ethnic,  religious and cultural backgrounds. By 2012, 80% of our children will have access to pre-school education. Teaching is  the bedrock of all professions. Undoubtedly, well-trained teachers in adequate numbers are an indicator of quality  education. The teacher training initiative under the UNESCO-Malaysia Cooperative Trust Fund announced by our  Prime Minister two days ago reflects our firm commitment to enhancing the quality of teachers. In this regard, Malaysia  would like to propose that UNESCO develop a set of standard delineating and standardizing criteria and competencies  necessary to produce teachers of high quality. Knowledge and skills fuel the engines of economic growth and social  transformation. We must promote the capacity to learn and provide opportunities for students to be employable in the  future, to join the world of work. Acknowledging that every child is unique in terms of learning ability, inclination and  capacity “multiple intelligences”. Technical and vocational subjects have now been incorporated into our education  system for this particular purpose. We also plan to increase funds for technical and vocational education from 15% to
56% of our education budget.
42.3 Madam President, Malaysia is committed to safeguarding its cultural heritage, both tangible and intangible, to  share it with the world and our future generations. It is laudable that the World Heritage List is becoming more  representative, balanced and credible. Malaysia believes that the Arab region and the Asia-Pacific have a large number  of potential World Heritage sites which could be inscribed to share with the world. We also would like to take this  opportunity to thank UNESCO for the assistance rendered in the identification of two World Heritage sites, and for  awarding the UNESCO/Jikji Memory of World Prize to Malaysia as well. I thank you for your kind attention. As-salāmu  ‘alaikum
43. The President:   Thank you very much indeed, Minister. We have now come to the end of this fifth plenary meeting, and I would  invite you to resume promptly at 3 p.m. this afternoon. Many thanks, bon appétit. The meeting is adjourned.  The meeting rose at 12.25 a.m.  La séance est levée à 12 h 25  Se levanta la sesión a las 12.25  Заседание закрывается в 12.25  א א١٢,٢٥א   会议于 12 时 25 分结束