142  Oral report by the Chairperson of the ADM Commission on item 4.4 “Adoption of the provisional budget ceiling  for 2010-2011”  Rapport oral de la Présidente de la Commission ADM sur le point 4.4 « Adoption du plafond budgétaire  provisoire pour 2010-2011 »  Informe oral de la Presidenta de la Comisión ADM sobre el punto 4.4 “Aprobación del tope presupuestario  provisional para 2010-2011”  Устный доклад Председателя Комиссии ADM по пункту 4.4 «Утверждение предварительного верхнего  предельного уровня бюджета на 2010-2011 гг.»  אאאא א"٤,٤(ADM)א א א א "٢٠١١−٢٠١٠א 行政委员会（ADM）主席关于项目 4.4“通过 2010--2011 年临时预算最高额”的口头报告
1. The President:  Good morning ladies and gentlemen, distinguished colleagues. I should like now to declare open the seventh  plenary session. But before we resume the general policy debate, I would like to invite the Chairperson of the ADM  Commission (Finance and administration), Ms Hanna-El-Daher, to present us with her oral report on item 4.4. Madam,  you have the floor.
2.1 Mme Hanna-El-Daher (Liban) (Présidente de la Commission ADM – Finances et administration) :   Monsieur le Président de la Conférence générale, Monsieur le Président du Conseil exécutif, Distingués  collègues, Mesdames et Messieurs, le Bureau, lors de sa réunion du mercredi 7 octobre, a demandé à la Commission  administrative d'examiner le point 4.4 concernant l'adoption du plafond budgétaire pour 2010-2011. Pour faciliter le débat,  le Secrétariat nous a soumis un projet de résolution sur ce point, figurant dans le document 35 C/68, pour examen. De  plus, il a été rappelé que l'adoption de cette résolution est une formalité dont l'objectif était de permettre aux  commissions de programme d’examiner, pendant la tenue de leurs travaux, le budget qui correspond à leur domaine de  compétence. Dix États membres ont pris la parole sur ce point. Au vu de l'importance du projet de résolution contenu  dans le document 35 C/68 Rev., la Commission a demandé que ce point fasse partie des points permanents qui lui  seront soumis à chaque session de la Conférence générale.
2.2 Compte tenu du fait que les autres commissions n'avaient pas encore examiné le Projet de programme et de  budget pour 2010-2011, il a été souligné que l'adoption du plafond budgétaire pour 2010-2011 ne pouvait être que  provisoire. Le titre du point 4.4 a donc été corrigé pour refléter ce point de vue. Suite à l'examen de la résolution  contenue dans le document 35 C/68 Rev., la Commission a approuvé à titre provisoire un plafond budgétaire de
653 millions de dollars des États-Unis pour l'exercice budgétaire 2010-2011. Quelques États membres ont cependant  exprimé leurs réserves concernant le plafond budgétaire, mais se sont joints au consensus. Avec votre permission,  Monsieur le Président de la Conférence générale, je soumets le document 35 C/68 Rev. à la plénière pour approbation.  Je vous remercie.
3. The President:   Thank you very much. Are there any comments? Are there any objections? I propose that we take note of the  recommendations of the ADM Commission and adopt the draft resolution contained in document 35 C/68 Rev.4. I see no  objections to this proposal and therefore it is so decided. Thank you very much.  General policy debate (continued)  Débat de politique générale (suite)  Debate de política general (continuación)  Обсуждение вопросов общей политики (продолжение)  א )(א   总政策辩论（续）
4. The President:   Distinguished colleagues, we shall now continue with the general policy debate. Before that, I should like to  inform you that at the end of this morning’s session, we will have the pleasure of listening to the report of the Youth  Forum, which was held from Thursday 1 October to Saturday 3 October. I should also like to remind you once again that  the time limit of six minutes for speeches has been fixed, as agreed upon, in the organization of our work. A  crescendoing piece of music shall interrupt those speakers that do not comply with this rule. I now have the honour to  call on our first speaker for this morning, His Excellency Mr Ronald Jones, Minister of Education and Human Resources  Development of Barbados. You have the floor, Sir.
5.1 Mr Jones (Barbados):   Mr President of the General Conference, Mr Chair of the Executive Board, Mr Director-General, Excellencies,  distinguished delegates, Barbados is delighted to offer its congratulations and support to Mr Davidson Hepburn, a  distinguished son of the Caribbean region, as President of this session of the General Conference for the first time in the  history of the Organization. This is long overdue, and we are deeply proud of this singular achievement.
5.2 Mr President, Barbados certainly subscribes to the two overarching global priorities identified: Africa and gender  equality, both of which lie at the heart of who we are as a people. A developed Africa means a developed Caribbean  because Africa, through history, is inextricably linked with the Caribbean. We nevertheless call on UNESCO to revisit the  prioritization of small island developing States (SIDS), particularly given the special vulnerabilities of our cultures,  structures and sustainability, so devastatingly played out in the oceans of South-East Asia recently. We fully support the
143  main lines of action identified in the Draft Programme and Budget for 2010-2011, and wish to offer the following  observations for your consideration. Mr President, the Government of Barbados recognizes the indelible link between  education and poverty reduction. Education is the primary vehicle by which economically and socially marginalized youth  and adults can break the bonds of poverty. For this reason, Barbados endorses the designation of technical and  vocational education and training as a priority area over the next biennium. Science education is another major strategic  thrust of UNESCO which attracts Barbados’ support, given the declining emphasis by students on the pure sciences.  This decline has the potential to undermine the innovative capability of the country, and Barbados sees a strong linkage  between education and training and economic development. Consequently, adult education remains a significant interest  for my government. In terms of Major Programme IV, Barbados welcomes the continued focus on the development of the  cultural industries and the protection and preservation of the cultural heritage. As we seek to diversify our vulnerable  economies, the creative sector offers a viable alternative to traditional sources of revenue and employment. In addition to  economic benefits, the nurturing of the creative abilities of our people will contribute greatly to the strengthening of our  communities and to social cohesion. In this context, we look forward to benefiting from activities of the International Fund  for the Promotion of Culture in synergy with the International Fund for Cultural Diversity. Mr President, I have noted with  great interest that the UNESCO Institute for Statistics will present for ratification a revised framework for cultural statistics.  If we are to move forward, UNESCO must provide the requisite assistance which will enable us to participate fully in the  collection of these critically important statistics. In respect of the preservation and protection of our cultural heritage, I am  delighted to say that Barbados is in the process of developing its first nomination, Historic Bridgetown and its Garrison,  for inscription on the World Heritage List. It is extremely heartening to see that UNESCO has formally acknowledged that  there is a serious geographical imbalance in respect of the World Heritage List and that a commitment has been made to  ensure that there are at least five successful nominations from under-represented countries, regions or categories.  Barbados, like other Caribbean Community (CARICOM) countries and SIDS, has a rich and vibrant heritage, and is  deserving of recognition as being of “outstanding universal value”.
5.3 Mr President, Barbados is committed to keeping faith with UNESCO’s Medium-Term Strategy. My country is  proud to have recently hosted the ninth meeting of the International Advisory Committee of the Memory of the World  Programme (IAC), a signal event for my island and our region as it was the first time that the IAC had met in a small  island developing State. Mr President, Barbados’ involvement in the Memory of the World Programme is evidence of our  commitment to preserving the documentary heritage of humankind. Heritage is one of those things for which size is of no  consequence and which make the world the unique place that it is. Mr President, the international community has  adopted several strategies in recent years that have accelerated development for the world’s poorest countries, not least  of which is the Mauritius Strategy, built upon the foundations of the Barbados Plan of Action. These are enabling small  island developing States to build on national strengths, while at the same time acknowledging our vulnerability to the  deleterious effects of climate change in the form of sea-level rise and intense hydrometeorological and coastal hazards.  Barbados acknowledges the excellent response by UNESCO to these issues which challenge the very survival of small  islands, and commends the Intergovernmental Oceanographic Commission (IOC) for the sound body of marine and  coastal scientific knowledge, which developing countries can utilize as decision support tools. Barbados has  demonstrated its continued commitment to addressing such issues with the establishment of the Caribbean Tsunami  Warning Centre and welcomes the proposed enhancement of the Plan of Action for the UNESCO Strategy for Action on  Climate Change, through the development of a framework of ethical principles.
5.4 Mr President, finally, on behalf of my government, I take this opportunity to thank the Director-General for all his  support and interest in the needs and aspirations of our region. At the same time, we offer our deepest congratulations to  Ms Irina Bokova, the incoming Director-General, and we look forward to working with her in the future to give effect to  UNESCO’s mandate. Mr President, I thank you.
(7.1) M. Saad (République arabe syrienne) (traduit de l’arabe):   Mesdames et Messieurs, bonjour. En mon nom et au nom de ma délégation je remercie Monsieur Koïchiro Matsuura,  le Directeur général, et je félicite la future Directrice générale, Madame Irina Bukova, ainsi que Monsieur Davidson Hepburn,  Président de la Conférence générale.
(7.2) Mesdames et Messieurs, notre stratégie éducative privilégie actuellement la qualité de l’enseignement, son  approfondissement et sa généralisation. Nous nous efforçons d’intégrer la technologie aux programmes et aux méthodes  d’enseignement, de former et recycler les maîtres et enseignants aux méthodes pédagogiques, mais aussi d’élever le niveau  des élèves et étudiants en général. Nous accordons une attention spéciale aux plus brillants dans des centres idoines et nous  procédons à une refonte des programmes de tous les cycles. Nous entendons aussi préserver les acquis de notre pays, à  savoir un taux de scolarisation de près de 100 % et l’égalité des chances entre les deux sexes, en luttant avec plus de  détermination contre l’abandon scolaire. Tout est fait également en faveur des personnes handicapées ou marginalisées au  sein d’un système ouvert à tous et juste. Des mesures spéciales sont prises en faveur des bédouins nomades, comme la mise  en place d’écoles itinérantes et le recours à l’information grâce à la chaîne de télévision par satellite appartenant en propre au  Ministère de l’éducation. Le but est d’élever le niveau de suffisance interne et externe de notre système éducatif de sorte qu’il  réponde aux grands problèmes de l’heure, notamment aux mutations profondes que connaît notre planète sur les plans  matériel, social, économique, éthique et environnemental. Face à ces mutations, nous avons tous besoin de systèmes  éducatifs justes et forts. Car comment parvenir à des sociétés justes et fortes sans des systèmes éducatifs propres à renforcer,  dans les esprits, les notions de justice et d’égalité ? Comment instaurer la dignité humaine sans travailler sur les questions  d’égalité entre les sexes, les ethnies, les couleurs, les nationalités ou les croyances ? Une éducation nationale saine et juste  produit des sociétés et des nations justes et fortes et, par suite, un monde juste et fort. C’est dans cet esprit que notre pays  s’est doté de programmes dont l’exécution est soutenue par un gouvernement conscient de la valeur de l’éducation et de la  culture pour le développement à tous les niveaux. Le Président Bachar el-Assad, soucieux au plus haut point d’investir dans le  capital humain, soutient lui aussi ces programmes et a largement diffusé cette conviction parmi les citoyens. Sa pensée  commence à produire des effets évidents parmi les forces vives concernées par le développement, notamment par l’éducation.
(7.3) Mesdames et Messieurs, le Conseil exécutif, lors de sa dernière réunion, a bien voulu approuver la création d’un  centre régional pour le développement de la petite enfance en République arabe syrienne, un centre de catégorie 2 placé  sous l’égide de l’UNESCO. Vous savez, nous en sommes certains, l’importance qu’il y a à créer un tel centre, à le soutenir et  le développer dans notre région arabe qui a besoin d’un surcroît d’efforts, de la part de l’Organisation, en faveur de la petite  enfance. D’autant que cette importance a été confirmée par l’étude de faisabilité effectuée par les experts de l’UNESCO  appartenant au Bureau de Beyrouth, qu’ils soient remerciés. Aussi nous engageons, en toute amitié, Madame la Directrice  générale à signer la convention relative à ce centre et à participer à son inauguration officielle. En fait, le Centre a commencé  ses activités au début de cette année sous le haut patronage de Madame Asma el-Assad, épouse de Monsieur le Président.
(7.4) Mesdames et Messieurs, nombreuses sont les résolutions importantes adoptées par les conférences de l’UNESCO  concernant la situation des établissements scolaires et culturels de Palestine, de sa capitale Jérusalem, du Golan arabe syrien  occupé. Mais les autorités israéliennes d’occupation empêchent ces résolutions d’atteindre le moindre de leurs nobles  objectifs. Elles opposent, en effet, une fin de non recevoir à toutes les commissions compétentes et l’occupant continue ses  menées terroristes contre les enfants de notre peuple et contre ses institutions éducatives, culturelles et spirituelles, visant les  fondements de son existence et de son identité. L’holocauste par le phosphore à Gaza, les souffrances interminables et  quotidiennes de Jérusalem, celles des enfants du Golan occupé en sont les exemples vivants devant vous et devant la  conscience du monde. Voilà qui appelle des résolutions sévères, conformes à la légalité internationale, aux droits de l’homme  et au message de l’UNESCO ! Atermoyer face à ces pratiques terroristes, c’est signifier que nous n’assumons pas nos  responsabilités morales et professionnelles au regard des valeurs que nous prônons du matin au soir.
(7.5) En conclusion, nous tenons à remercier tous ceux qui, à l’UNESCO, ont permis la tenue de cette conférence et en  ont préparé les sujets et les résolutions. Nous réitérons également la volonté de la Syrie de coopérer avec l’Organisation et de  s’ouvrir complètement aux expériences du monde dans les domaines de l’éducation, de la culture et des sciences. Merci de  votre attention.
8. The President:   Thank you very much, Minister, for your remarks. I now give the floor to the Minister of Human Resources  Development of India, His Excellency Mr Kapil Sibal.
9.1 Mr Sibal (India):   Mr President of the General Conference, Mr Director-General, Excellencies, distinguished colleagues, ladies  and gentlemen, it is in a spirit of humility, in the name of Mahatma Gandhi, that India has brought to the General  Conference, through the Executive Board, its proposal for the establishment of the Mahatma Gandhi Institute of  Education for Peace and Sustainable Development as a UNESCO category 1 institute. When established, this will be the  first category 1 institute in Asia and only the third in a developing country. This proposal was approved by the Executive  Board by acclamation. I am confident that the General Conference will support this initiative brought in the name of the  Mahatma, whose birthday on 2 October is celebrated by the United Nations General Assembly as the International Day  of Non-Violence. I also take this opportunity to thank the Director-General, Mr Koïchiro Matsuura, and his colleagues in  the Secretariat for their partnership and support to this project.
9.2 Let us now turn to the issue of social development. As the Chair of the Steering Committee of the South-South  Cooperation Programme/Fund, India looks forward to the early implementation of fundraising strategy approved by the  Executive Board at its last session and the raising of the profile of the unique South-South Fund in the field of education  through the successful celebration of the United Nations Day for South-South Cooperation on 15 December 2009. Our
1.1 billion people are a huge human resource. We recently passed the historic Right of Children to Free and Compulsory  Education Act 2009 to create a legal entitlement for compulsory and free education for all children between the ages of 6  and 14. We recently also revamped and relaunched the national literacy mission with a focus on women, called  Shakshar Bharat. At the ministerial round table on “Science and Technology for Sustainable Development and the Role  of UNESCO”, held on 26 and 27 October 2007, during the previous session of the General Conference, we had agreed  that bridging the technological divide is a major challenge for the international scientific community, and the immediate  challenge is the development of a global access system making use of a range of modalities that are to be carried out.  To take this forward, UNESCO should launch “project 1 billion” for the most deprived peoples and seek the help of  Member States to develop an ecosystem through which they are empowered. Project 1 billion should be a flagship  programme that provides access to affordable technologies for everyday solutions. All technological enterprises must  have a twofold objective: one to overcome the barriers of knowledge through technological solutions and the other to  foster the growth of knowledge through ordinary solutions. Project 1 billion falls into the second category. The “S” in  UNESCO stands for science. It also stands for solutions. Such solutions need to be sustainable. So the S in UNESCO is  all-encompassing. It is destined to energize the global community to provide scientific solutions that are sustainable. For  those in the developed world, such solutions might lie in embracing green technologies and looking at lifestyles through  the prism of sustainable development. Solutions for the less developed world involve sustainable existing lifestyles  requiring investment, technology transfer and human resource development. UNESCO can play a significant role in  developing global understanding for the disparate nature both of the challenges and the solutions. For the less  developed world, without impacting on overall growth, the right to food, work and education, along with access to basic  health and nutrition, cannot be realized without the S in UNESCO.
9.3 India also welcomes the operationalization of the 2003 Convention for the Safeguarding of the Intangible  Cultural Heritage. An important development was the establishment of the Representative List of the Intangible Cultural  Heritage of Humanity, with two inscriptions from India: one is the multinational nomination of Nowrouz, along with the  Islamic Republic of Iran, Kyrgyzstan, Pakistan, Turkey and Uzbekistan; and the other is Ramman, a religious festival and  ritual theatre of the Garhwal Himalayas. The Chair of the Executive Board, Ambassador Yaï of Benin, to whom we also  pay tribute, took the timely initiative for UNESCO to commemorate the contribution of Rabindranath Tagore, Pablo  Neruda and Aimé Césaire for a reconciled universal. It is only appropriate, therefore, for UNESCO to commemorate the
100th anniversary of Mother Teresa in 2010 and the 150th anniversary of Rabindranath Tagore in 2011, both initiatives  brought by India. May I also thank the Director-General for his support in organizing the great spiritual event here at  UNESCO on 16 September 2009, culminating in the unveiling the statue of Sri Aurobindo. We in India believe that the  global community must rededicate itself to building a society free from conflict, and adopt and adapt to sustainable  lifestyles. At the heart of a global community free from conflict is the spirit of non-violence in the message of the  Mahatma. This message provides our way forward. President Obama in a recent response to a question from a student  at Wakefield High School in Arlington, Virginia, in the United States, said that Gandhi ended up doing so much to change  the world just by the power of his ethics. President Obama further went on to say, and I quote, “I am always interested in  people who are able to bring about change, not through violence, not through money, but through the force of their  personality and their ethical and moral stances”. At the heart of the concept of non-violence and sustainable  development is the ethical principle, the ethics of moral stances. It is this spirit that must be propagated through  UNESCO. May I conclude by saying that it is time for us to stand up together to meet the challenges of tomorrow. Thank  you.
10. The President:   Thank you very much, Minister, for your remarks. Now I call on the Minister of Higher Education and Scientific  Research of Egypt, His Excellency Mr Hany Helal.  ):(א١١,١  ، א א א،אא א א،א א א،א א א،א א א א א אא א א، א،אא א א ، א א אא.א
(11.1) M. Helal (Égypte) (traduit de l’arabe):   Au Nom de Dieu Clément et Miséricordieux. Monsieur le Président de la Conférence générale, Monsieur le Président  du Conseil exécutif, Monsieur le Directeur général, Mesdames et Messieurs les chefs et membres de délégations et les  représentants d’États membres, permettez-moi de commencer mon allocution en dressant mes plus sincères félicitations à  Monsieur Davidson Hepburn, Président de la trente-cinquième session de la Conférence générale, lui souhaitant plein succès  dans l’accomplissement de sa nouvelle mission. Je remercie également Monsieur Georges Anastassopoulos, Président de la  trente-quatrième session de la Conférence générale pour les efforts incessants qu’il a fournis, ainsi que Monsieur Olabiyi  Babalola Joseph Yaï, Président du Conseil exécutif pour la sagesse avec laquelle il a dirigé le Conseil tout au long de son  mandat. De même, je présente, au nom du Gouvernement égyptien, mes félicitations à Madame Irina Bukova à l’occasion de  son élection Directrice générale de l’Organisation par le Conseil exécutif, lui souhaitant la réussite et mes salutations et  remerciements à Monsieur Koïchiro Matsuura, Directeur général, pour l’œuvre accomplie au cours des dix dernières années  au service de l’Organisation.
(11.2) Mesdames et Messieurs membres de la Conférence générale, la communauté internationale a confié à l’UNESCO la  mission de construire les défenses de la paix dans l’esprit des hommes. Or nous estimons que la voie vers la paix consiste à  renforcer le travail multilatéral, dans le respect de la légalité internationale, des droits de l’homme, de la culture de l’autre, de  la liberté d’opinion et d’expression et de l’égalité entre les sexes. En vérité, depuis le début de cette année, le monde connaît  un nouveau climat permettant d’espérer le règlement des conflits régionaux en suspens, car n’ayant pas été résolus de façon  juste et équilibrée. L’UNESCO doit profiter de ce climat pour remplir son rôle de protecteur du patrimoine de l’humanité, de  facilitateur du dialogue entre les diverses parties et de l’entente, notamment en ce qui concerne la cause de la Palestine et de  la ville de Jérusalem.
(11.3) Mesdames et Messieurs, les conditions de notre monde actuel et les crises successives qu’il connaît rendent la  mission de l’UNESCO plus nécessaire que jamais, parce qu’elle est un laboratoire d’idées et le point de ralliement des  penseurs de toutes les cultures et qu’elle est, véritablement, capable de faire évoluer la mentalité des hommes et de soutenir  les peuples. Je vais donc parler des axes d’action figurant parmi nos priorités et qui illustrent la méthode d’action de  l’Organisation telle que la voit l’Egypte pour la période à venir : restructuration des départements de l’Organisation, priorité aux  programmes communs entre divers services et pluridisciplinaires afin de renforcer les activités de l’UNESCO sur le terrain,  recentrage du Programme et remaniement des priorités en vue de mieux utiliser les ressources disponibles, renforcement de
147  la contribution de l’Organisation à la réalisation des objectifs du Millénaire pour le développement. Notre souhait est que  l’UNESCO devienne l’enceinte permettant aux Etats membres de coopérer entre eux pour échanger les connaissances et  transmettre les expériences à partir des problèmes d’intérêt commun, de sorte qu’ils ne se contentent plus de relations  bilatérales entre eux et le Secrétariat ; qu’une attention plus grande soit donnée aux programmes et projets de lutte contre la  pauvreté. Nous souhaitons aussi plus de conseils concernant les stratégies et politiques régionales et nationales ; le  renforcement des programmes visant à développer le continent africain et sa structuration afin qu’il gagne en efficacité, le  renforcement du rôle des commissions nationales, notamment pour la mobilisation de nouveaux partenaires tels que les  parlementaires, les responsables des médias, les représentants de la société civile, des écoles affiliées, des clubs et des  chaires de l’UNESCO. Nous pensons également que l’UNESCO doit œuvrer à combler le fossé des connaissances entre le  Nord et le Sud ; à supprimer les obstacles à la propagation des connaissances et à développer la coopération Sud-Sud ; servir  de catalyseur entre les gouvernements, les agences internationales et les milieux scientifiques en vue de favoriser la diffusion  des sciences et les transferts de technologie au bénéfice des pays en développement ; prendre les mesures nécessaires pour  limiter les effets des catastrophes naturelles, mieux gérer les ressources et atténuer les conséquences du changement  climatique.
(11.4) Monsieur le Président, Mesdames et Messieurs les membres de la Conférence, nombreuses et complexes sont les  tâches qui attendent l’Organisation, mais je suis convaincu que l’UNESCO est capable de poursuivre son chemin, à condition  qu’elle prenne les mesures de restructuration administrative nécessaires. Elle ne peut faire autrement que d’élargir  l’application des politiques de décentralisation géographique, afin que tous le personnel du Secrétariat ne soit pas concentré  au Siège. Elle doit aussi accorder plus d’attention au choix des membres du Secrétariat, notamment hors du Siège, car la  réalisation des objectifs de l’Organisation dépend de leurs compétences et de leurs aptitudes. Elle doit développer les  mécanismes de gestion globale de ses centres et instituts, les habilitant davantage à mobiliser des ressources financières  hors de l’Organisation. Elle doit, enfin, renforcer les mécanismes d’évaluation et de suivi aux plans interne et externe.
(11.5) En conclusion, l’Égypte qui a eu l’honneur de contribuer à la formulation des idées et principes inscrits par les pères  fondateurs dans la Charte de l’UNESCO, me commande de renouveler, devant votre Conférence, son engagement sans  réserve à servir les objectifs de l’Organisation dans un esprit de conciliation et d’éthique, afin d’édifier des sociétés plus justes,  jouissant d’un développement durable et permettant aux peuples de bénéficier de l’égalité des chances. Que la paix et les  bénédictions de Dieu soient avec vous.
12. The President:   Thank you very much, Minister, for your remarks. I now call on the Minister of Education of Sri Lanka, His  Excellency Mr Susil Premajayantha.
13.1 Mr Premajayantha (Sri Lanka):   Mr President, Mr Director-General, Excellencies, distinguished delegates. There are three major challenges  facing the world today. They are terrorism, climate change and poverty. Despite all the efforts of the United Nations  system agencies to build peace and eradicate poverty, sizeable numbers of the world’s population still continue to face  terrorism and languish in abject poverty. This is because there is much contradiction, disharmony and lack of will within  the world community when it comes to nuclear disarmament, weapons control, environmental protection and keeping up  with global commitments to poverty eradication. We therefore welcome the recent unanimous approval of the United  Nations Security Council, at a summit chaired by President Barack Obama, which envisages a world without nuclear  weapons. Today, Sri Lanka is picking up the pieces left behind by a 30-year war against a ruthless terrorist organization,  the LTTE, better known the world over as the Tamil Tigers, who were militarily defeated a few months ago in order to  build a better tomorrow for all of the country’s multi-ethnic communities. The victory over terrorism was by no means an  easy task. More difficult still is to build peace in people’s minds owing to the scars of hatred, mistrust and violence left  behind as a result of extremism and terrorism. A united front to prevent violence by dismantling multifaceted, well- organized, terrorist networks worldwide is therefore the most prudent approach through which we can together build  peace and tranquillity in our respective countries, so that the dark shadow of the menace of terrorism looming  everywhere in the current global context can be cast away forever. From our past experience of post-tsunami recovery  and resettlement of war-affected internally displaced persons in the eastern province of our country, we realize that  resettlement must not be forced if it is to be truly successful in the long term. It is a long and meticulous process that also  includes demining and careful handling of extremist elements who continue to mix with the internally displaced. Sri Lanka  is committed to complying with international standards in the field of human rights and humanitarian standards. We are  grateful for the assistance and cooperation extended to us by friendly countries and we seek similar understanding in  making a stable transition from ending the conflict to ensuring lasting peace. We thank UNESCO for emergency  assistance provided for psychosocial care for the internally displaced persons.
13.2 Mr President, since the start of the twenty-first century, we have been confronted with the “fierce urgency” of a  crisis that links today and tomorrow. This crisis is climate change. It is still a preventable crisis, but only just. The world  has less than a decade to change course. No issue merits more urgent attention or more immediate action. Sustainable  development simply cannot be achieved without a stable climate. The poverty crisis, the food crisis, the energy crisis, the  economic crisis … we cannot find lasting solutions to any of these global problems without bold action to combat climate  change and to achieve greener, low-carbon growth.
13.3 We are happy to mention that in Sri Lanka a national policy framework has been launched for social cohesion  and peace education, which is soon to be integrated with education for sustainable development and implemented under  a National Sustainable Development Council, functioning under the Chairmanship of His Excellency the President, in  which the Sri Lanka National Commission for UNESCO will play an important role. Our delegation is fully supportive of  the very timely creation of the Mahatma Gandhi Institute of Education for Peace and Sustainable Development as a  UNESCO category 1 institute to be set up in India, and we look forward to working together to promote its ideals.  Mr President, when it comes to alleviating poverty, just as much as for peace and sustainable development and for job  creation, there is no better investment than education. However, nine years into the Millenium Development Goals  (MDGs), statistics from the United Nations show that the divide between the rich and poor has widened, with the rich
148  getting richer and the poor becoming poorer, even though the MDGs are on the agenda of every G8 summit. The  developed countries must keep to their commitments to contribute 0.7% of their GDP to poverty eradication, so that  developing countries can take quality education to the grass roots and to the unreached. We welcome the  announcement by the G20 that this group of the 20 developed and developing nations will become the top economic  forum, replacing the G8, which included only the wealthy nations, thus spreading influence to emerging powers such as  China and India who comprise over 25% of the world’s population. Long before the MDGs were articulated globally, Sri  Lanka was well on track to reaching the related targets in several areas, and much investment had been made over the  years to provide free education, free health, food subsidies and subsidized credit, all of which contributed to improving  living standards. Our life expectancy is high. Literacy for both men and women is above 90% and we are only a few  steps short of achieving universal primary education.
13.4 Mr President, distinguished delegates, in concluding I wish to thank the outgoing President of the 34th session  of the General Conference, Ambassador Anastassopoulos, for the exemplary and straightforward manner in which he led  our proceedings. We also congratulate the President of the 35th session of the General Conference, Dr Davidison  Hepburn, on his election and wish him every success. My delegation also joins me in thanking the Director-General  Koïchiro Matsuura for his hard work during his ten-year tenure, and we look forward to giving our unstinted support to the  Director-General elect. Congratulations to UNESCO for having elected its first woman Director-General. We wish them  both the very best for the future. May the blessings of the “triple gem” – the Buddha, the Dhamma and the Sangha – be  on you all. Theruwan saranai.
14. The President:   Thank you very much, Minister, for your remarks. I now call on the Minister of Higher Education of the Congo,  His Excellency Mr Ange-Antoine Abena. You have the floor, Sir.
15.1 M. Abena (Congo) :   Monsieur le Président de la Conférence générale, Monsieur le Président du Conseil exécutif, Monsieur le  Directeur général de l'UNESCO, Mesdames et Messieurs les ministres et les chefs de délégations, Mesdames et  Messieurs les délégués, je voudrais, au nom de ma délégation et en mon nom propre, vous saluer et vous féliciter,  Monsieur le Président, pour votre brillante élection. Le choix de votre personne pour conduire les travaux de cette  Conférence générale est sans aucun doute un choix des plus pertinents qui permettra à cette session d'atteindre  pleinement ses objectifs. Monsieur le Président, je m'associe pleinement à l'hommage rendu par le Conseil exécutif, lors  de sa 182e session, ainsi que par tous ceux qui m'ont précédé, au Directeur général, M. Matsuura, ami de l'Afrique, dont  le mandat est arrivé à terme. Il a su, par son action, mieux insérer l'UNESCO dans le système des Nations Unies, rendre  possible et concrète la priorité qu'accorde l'UNESCO à l'Afrique et sauvegarder l'ensemble des programmes par rapport  aux prévisions initiales de croissance zéro.
15.2 Monsieur le Président, Mesdames et Messieurs, le Congo, qui s'est engagé résolument dans la voie de la  démocratisation, a réélu le 12 juin 2009 le Président Denis Sassou N’Guesso pour un nouveau mandat de sept ans sur  la base d'un projet de société qui donne une place prépondérante aux thèmes majeurs que traite notre Organisation, à  savoir, la paix, l'éthique, l'éducation, le développement de la science et de la technologie et la vitalisation de la culture, le  tout dans un cadre qui assure un développement durable. En effet, après avoir consacré son premier mandat 2002-
2009 aux efforts de reconstruction des infrastructures de base durement affectées par les troubles sociopolitiques de la  décennie 90, le Président Sassou N’Guesso s'est engagé, dans son projet de société, à placer résolument le Congo sur  la voie du progrès économique, social et culturel.
15.3 Mais, nous le constatons tous, les nobles engagements que nous partageons avec l'UNESCO rencontrent un  contexte international des plus défavorables, avec la crise financière et économique qui frappe toute la planète, et  encore plus durement les pays étranglés par l'endettement comme mon pays, le Congo. C'est pourquoi la délégation du  Congo se félicite du plaidoyer de l'UNESCO qui estime, à juste titre, que cette crise financière ne doit pas servir de  prétexte pour réduire les efforts en faveur du développement, de l'éducation et de la science.
15.4 Monsieur le Président, s'agissant du Projet de programme et de budget pour 2010-2011, le Congo note avec  satisfaction l'effort de décentralisation qui se poursuit et les deux priorités retenues, l'Afrique et l'égalité entre les sexes,  qui se constatent au niveau des données budgétaires.
15.5 Concernant le secteur de l'éducation et l'ambitieux défi de l'Éducation pour tous, nous constatons que le chemin  parcouru depuis Jomtien en 1990, en passant par Dakar en 2000, est déjà long. À six années de l'échéance 2015,  plusieurs obstacles restent à surmonter : insuffisance des maîtres, avenir incertain pour de nombreux élèves qui ne  disposent pas d'un enseignement de qualité, explosion des effectifs et diversification des demandes de formation dans le  secondaire et le supérieur. Au Congo, nous prévoyons le triplement des effectifs de l'enseignement supérieur d’ici la fin  de la décennie qui commence. Tout ceci m'amène à suggérer qu'en ce qui concerne l'éducation, l'élan et la mobilisation  en faveur de l'EPT soient préservés en mettant l'accent sur les fondements. Il faudra que l'UNESCO aide les États  membres à élaborer des stratégies qui prépareront l'enseignement supérieur à relever les défis suivants : la  massification de la demande dans l'enseignement supérieur, qui doublera ou triplera les effectifs de ce cycle en l'espace  d'une décennie grâce à des améliorations quantitatives et qualitatives recherchées dans le primaire et le secondaire ;  l'explosion des dépenses consécutive, entre autres, à l'explosion des effectifs et à la mise en place du système LMD, ce  qui va exiger des schémas de financement adapté ; la nécessaire diversification de l'offre et la concurrence régionale.  L’éducation demeure donc pour le Congo la priorité des priorités. L’EPT devra concerner tous les niveaux  d'enseignement, c'est-à-dire de la maternelle à l'enseignement supérieur. Limiter l’EPT à l'enseignement primaire et  secondaire freinerait le développement du pays.
15.6 Monsieur le Président, pour ce qui est des programmes relatifs aux sciences, le Congo se félicite d'avoir été l'un  des premiers pays pilotes à bénéficier du concours de l'UNESCO et du Gouvernement japonais en vue de l'élaboration  de la politique nationale en science, technologie et innovation. Au moment où le projet de développement national vient  de réaffirmer la place centrale de la science et de la technologie comme outils majeurs, avec pour cadre d'orientation le  développement durable, nous ne pouvons que nous féliciter des priorités biennales des deux programmes, qui  concourent notamment à renforcer les capacités dans le domaine des sciences, de la technologie et de l’innovation.  Aussi, relevons-nous avec un grand intérêt les actions telles que la maîtrise de la gestion des ressources rares ou vitales  comme l'eau, l'aide aux États membres dans l'élaboration de politiques dans le domaine de l'éthique des sciences, la  sauvegarde de l'environnement marin, l'amélioration de la foresterie, l'hydrographie et la gestion de l'eau, et la mise en  réseau des ressources en technologie de l'information et de la communication.
15.7 Concernant les grands programmes IV et V, j'aimerais souligner que le Congo s'est doté récemment d’une loi  qui détermine la base de sa politique culturelle, ainsi que d’infrastructures de haute facture pour assurer la gestion de la  communication moderne. Nous appuyons ainsi les priorités de ces deux programmes. Le Congo est particulièrement  motivé en matière de développement culturel par les travaux qu’accomplit l'UNESCO dans le domaine normatif, qui  servent naturellement de repères et qui facilitent le développement de la coopération internationale. Le Congo souhaite  bénéficier de l'appui de l'UNESCO dans les domaines suivants : l'inscription de ses sites sur la Liste du patrimoine  mondial, la collecte et l'inventaire du patrimoine culturel immatériel, le financement de la création et de la réhabilitation  de musées, la sauvegarde des documents filmés, audio et écrits, et le financement des petites industries artisanales.
15.8 Monsieur le Président, Mesdames et Messieurs, le Gouvernement du Congo est attaché à la liberté  d'expression et d'information. Notre législation en la matière est des plus ouvertes. Cependant, dans un pays comme le  Congo, marqué par les empreintes de conflits violents et destructeurs, le domaine de la communication et de  l'information souffre de la rareté d’hommes et de femmes bien formés et qualifiés. Aussi voudrions-nous appuyer de  manière particulière les actions prévues par l'UNESCO visant à « l'assistance aux États membres pour le  développement de médias libres, indépendants et pluralistes sur la base des indicateurs de développement des médias  du PIDC ». Le Congo a suivi avec beaucoup d'intérêt la bataille autour de la désignation du futur Directeur général de  l'UNESCO. Son Excellence Mme Irina Bokova, qui a été choisie, mérite notre admiration et bénéficie de notre soutien.  Le Congo est persuadé que la Conférence générale respectera le choix du Conseil. Je vous remercie de votre aimable  attention.
(17) M. Malki (Palestine) (traduit de l’arabe):   Monsieur Davidson Hepburn, Président de la Conférence générale, permettez-moi tout d’abord, joignant ma voix à  celle des orateurs qui m’ont précédé, de vous féliciter à l’occasion de votre élection. Monsieur le Président de la Conférence  générale, Monsieur le Président du Conseil exécutif, Monsieur Matsuura, mesdames et Messieurs les ministres, Mesdames et  messieurs les membres de délégations, Mesdames et messieurs, j’ai le plaisir, du haut de cette tribune, de vous transmettre  l’expression de fierté du peuple palestinien devant le soutien efficace manifesté par l’UNESCO à sa lutte pour l’indépendance  et la dignité nationales. Permettez-moi également de vous assurer de son fort désir, et de son aptitude à adhérer, de plein  droit, à cette organisation humaine libre et à ses institutions. Je voudrais attirer l’attention de cette noble assemblée sur la  dégradation de la situation de mon pays entre les deux sessions de votre Conférence. Les forces d’occupation continuent  d’étouffer l’espérance du peuple de Palestine, alors que la communauté internationale s’accorde sur la nécessité d’instaurer la  paix au Moyen-Orient et dans le monde, de combattre l’extrémisme et la violence pour que nous vivions dans la sécurité et la  stabilité. Or la blessure et la tragédie sont chaque jour plus profondes et notre peuple palestinien ne cesse de souffrir depuis  la Nakba survenue voici plus de 60 ans. Le monde cherche en vain le moyen de faire appliquer des centaines de résolutions  demeurées lettre morte. Malgré tous les efforts consentis, le peuple de Palestine se heurte à une réalité chaque jour plus  dure : Israël continue imperturbablement d’ignorer ses engagements et de se dérober ; de cerner les Palestiniens et d’occuper  jusqu’à leurs souvenirs. Le mur de l’apartheid, malheureusement, devient une réalité politique plus puissante que toutes les  vérités politiques existant aujourd’hui en Palestine. Miroir de la politique israélienne, il montre l’occupation de notre culture et  la confiscation du patrimoine de notre civilisation. Ce mur qui dévore la terre palestinienne au profit d’Israël et de ses colonies,  disloque notre sol national, coupe les villes palestiniennes les unes des autres ; les habitants de leur famille, de leurs terrains  et de leurs sources de subsistance ; les élèves de leurs écoles et les étudiants de leurs universités. Il était naturel que  l’UNESCO, accorde, comme elle l’a toujours fait, une attention particulière au patrimoine archéologique et de civilisation de la  ville de Jérusalem ; qu’elle ait pris, à ce jour, un grand nombre de résolutions relatives à la préservation de ce patrimoine et à  sa protection. Cette ville est, en effet, un patrimoine de l’humanité et elle concerne, à ce titre, tous les hommes. Mais voilà !  Cette ville unique souffre, comme l’ont certifié des experts internationaux, en toute objectivité scientifique. Vous-mêmes,  n’êtes pas sans savoir l’ampleur des périls qui planent au dessus de la ville de Jérusalem, des dénaturations qui menaçaient,  et menacent encore, son patrimoine et son cachet, son équilibre urbain, son statut de lieu inscrit sur deux listes : celle du  patrimoine mondial et celle du patrimoine en péril. Israël multiplie les mesures dangereuses en vue de judaïser la ville sainte,  d’en altérer le caractère pluriel sur les plans humain, urbain, culturel et existentiel. Etant donné qu’Israël refuse obstinément  de coopérer avec les instances de l’UNESCO, qu’il persiste à entraver les efforts et les plans de l’Organisation pour la  préservation et la protection du patrimoine de Jérusalem contre la dénaturation, nous espérons que la Conférence générale  affirmera la nécessité d’un plan d’action pour l’application des résolutions pertinentes de l’UNESCO. Nous espérons aussi que  la Conférence prendra l’initiative de la création d’un fonds spécial pour la protection de cette ville sainte et la préservation de  ses monuments contre les plans de démolition et de dénaturation dans lesquels les autorités persévèrent et persistent. Il  incombe aux Etats membres d’assumer, avec nous, la responsabilité de faire respecter les engagements internationaux dans  cette affaire. Ils doivent répondre avec fermeté aux pratiques répressives d’Israël à l’endroit du peuple palestinien et de son  patrimoine. Il nous appartient, puisque nous sommes chargés de préserver l’héritage mondial, de contraindre Israël à  renoncer à son unilatéralisme dans tous les domaines, à ses menées méthodiques visant à usurper la terre, les espérances et  les rêves, la mémoire et au patrimoine. Je voudrais vous remercier encore de l’attention accordée à ce sujet et de votre action  prompte après la dernière en date des agressions contre Gaza, agression qui s’est soldée par d’effroyables pertes en vies  humaines, en institutions, notamment scolaires et culturelles. Les habitants de Gaza souffrent des conséquences de ces actes  à ce jour, alors qu’Israël les maintient sous un blocus tyrannique. Je vous remercie infiniment de votre attention et je vous  salue en mon nom et en celui du peuple palestinien pour le soutien que vous nous apportez. Merci.
18. The President:  Thank you very much for your statement, Sir. Distinguished ladies and gentlemen, before I give the next speaker,  I am personally extremely proud to inform you that the Nobel Peace Prize has been granted to President Barack Obama  for his extraordinary efforts to strengthen international diplomacy and cooperation between peoples. Thank you very  much, ladies and gentlemen. The next speaker on my list is Her Excellency Ms Maïguizo Rakiatou Zada, Secretary- General of the Ministry of Education of Niger. You have the floor.
19.1 Mme Zada (Niger) :  Monsieur le Président de la Conférence générale, Mesdames et Messieurs les ministres et chefs de délégation,  Monsieur le Président du Conseil exécutif, Monsieur le Directeur général de l’UNESCO, Mesdames et Messieurs,  Honorables délégués, je voudrais tout d’abord présenter, au nom de la délégation du Niger, mes très vives félicitations  aux Présidents de la Conférence générale et du Conseil exécutif. Mes félicitations s’adressent également à M. Koïchiro  Matsuura, Directeur général sortant, pour son engagement personnel dans le remarquable travail accompli depuis sa  nomination à la tête de l’Organisation. Mes remerciements vont à toutes ces femmes et à ces hommes qui se sont  présentés au poste de Directeur général, candidats dont le seul souci est de contribuer de leur plein gré à la bonne  marche de notre Organisation. Cela m’amène à présenter les chaleureuses félicitations de la République du Niger à  Mme Irina Bokova pour sa brillante désignation au poste de Directeur général. Bon vent, Madame !
19.2 Monsieur le Président, deux ans se sont écoulés déjà depuis la 34e session, et je me réjouis que le cahier des  charges qu’elle nous a confié ait été en grande partie respecté. Certes, il reste encore à faire, du fait de contingences qui  échappent peut-être à notre contrôle et qui entravent la conduite des programmes et projets à exécuter, mais les  engagements auxquels les États membres ont souscrit nous commandent de conjuguer nos forces et nos intelligences  pour réaliser les Objectifs du Millénaire pour le développement dont l’UNESCO est un des initiateurs.
19.3 Mesdames, Messieurs, atteindre ces nobles objectifs est possible et les pères fondateurs de l’UNESCO ne se  trompaient pas en prédisant que par l’éducation, la science, la culture et la communication et l’information, l’homme  pourrait un jour transformer la terre en un monde juste et bon. C’est pour cette raison, Mesdames et Messieurs, que les  plus hautes autorités de notre pays, sous la conduite de Son Excellence M. Mamadou Tandja, Président de la  République, Chef de l’État, Chef du gouvernement, ont fait de la réalisation des Objectifs du Millénaire pour le  développement le moteur de notre évolution.
19.4 En matière d’éducation en général et d’alphabétisation et de scolarisation des filles en particulier, des efforts  considérables ont été consentis, grâce surtout au programme décennal de développement de l’éducation. En effet, à  défaut de nous permettre d’atteindre un taux brut de scolarisation de 100 %, ce programme, né d’une volonté politique  sans faille, nous conduira au moins à 90 % à l’horizon 2015. Au niveau de l’enseignement technique et professionnel,  trois nouveaux Instituts universitaires de technologie viennent d’être créés dans nos régions afin de renforcer les  capacités du pays à faire face au besoin de cadres compétents, à même de mettre en valeur les inestimables  ressources minières et pétrolières dont regorge le Niger. La nouvelle politique en matière d’enseignement secondaire et  supérieur, de recherche et de technologie a permis à la Faculté des sciences de la santé de former et de spécialiser  plusieurs médecins qui  sont déployés à travers le pays.
19.5 S’agissant du développement social, le gouvernement l’a inscrit parmi les priorités fondamentales. C’est ainsi  qu’il a mis en place des opérations de crédits féminins et des centres de formation des jeunes dans des disciplines agro- pastorales et technologiques. La formation de cette jeunesse, faut-il le rappeler, bénéficie au Niger d’un support de taille,  à savoir le patrimoine culturel et sportif, car les autorités nigériennes ne ménagent aucun effort pour qu’elle réussisse  dans ces domaines. À cet égard, je vais informer l’auguste tribune de réalisations fort appréciées de tous comme la  Semaine de la parenté à plaisanterie, le Festival international de la mode africaine (FIMA), le Festival national de la  jeunesse, le Tournoi national de lutte traditionnelle, le Festival national de contes, le Forum africain du film documentaire.
19.6 Mesdames, Messieurs, le monde entier vient de célébrer, le 21 septembre dernier, la Journée mondiale de la  paix. Pour concrétiser la résolution des Nations Unies instituant cette Journée, une caravane de la paix a sillonné notre  pays, ayant pour objectif la consolidation de la fraternité et la transmission du message universel de la paix et de la non- violence.
19.7 Monsieur le Président, Mesdames, Messieurs, pour terminer, j’ai l’insigne devoir d’exalter les idéaux de  l’UNESCO, dont la mission à elle confiée par la communauté internationale est de promouvoir la compréhension  mutuelle et la paix universelle par l’éducation, la science, la culture et la communication et l’information. Je vous  remercie.
20. The President:   Merci beaucoup, Madame la Ministre, pour votre présentation. I now give the floor to the Minister of Education of  Pakistan, His Excellency Mr Mir Hazar Khan Bijarani.
21.1 Mr Bijarani (Pakistan):   Bismillāh ir-rahmān ir-rahīm (In the name of God, the Merciful, the Compassionate). Mr President, Mr Chair of  the Executive Board, Excellencies, ladies and gentlemen, as-salāmu ‘alaikum. It is indeed an honour for me to represent  Pakistan at the 35th session of the General Conference of UNESCO. Let me avail myself of this opportunity,  Mr President, to congratulate you on your election to this prestigious office. We believe that with your wisdom and  experience you will steer the deliberations of the General Conference to its mission and mandate. I also thank the  outgoing President, Ambassador George Anastassopoulos, for his dedication in deftly handling this esteemed position. I  wish to express my government’s deep gratitude to Mr Koïchiro Matsuura for his astute leadership and determined  efforts in realizing the goals of UNESCO. The comprehensive reforms introduced by you, Sir, have laid the foundations  for UNESCO to meet the challenges of the twenty-first century. I would also take this opportunity to extend my  government’s heartiest felicitations to Ambassador Irina Bokova on her nomination to the post of Director-General, and to  assure her of our full cooperation and support. Ir-rah
21.2 Under the dynamic leadership of President Asif Ali Zadari, the Government of Pakistan has been working on a  wide range of reforms aimed at establishing democratic norms and good governance. In the social sector, education has  been the top priority, with a focus on a holistic approach to education. The Constitution of Pakistan entrusts the State  with the responsibility of an equitable and effective education system for the people. The National Education Policy 2009  announced recently is a good blend of desirability and achievability. Many of the policy actions outlined have already  been initiated through reforms during the review process of the previous policy. Most notably, in the domains of  curriculum development, textbook and learning materials policy, teacher training and provision of facilities at schools, the
2009 policy integrates the reform process into its recommendations. The policy is also embedded in the Islamic ethos, as  enshrined in the Constitution. The Ministry of Education is establishing a national consultative council for curriculum  development. These reforms, initiated since 2005, have resulted in remarkable improvements in the gross enrolment  ratio of early childhood education. Pakistan is aiming to increase the literacy rate up to 86% by 2015 through the  upscaling of ongoing programmes of adult literacy and non-formal basic education in the country. Enhancing equitable  access to higher education remains a formidable challenge. We are taking active steps to raise enrolment in the higher  education sector from 4.7% to 10% by 2015 and to 15% by 2020. Despite the progress, participation and attainment  levels are disappointingly low. Almost one third of primary school-aged children are still out of school, a proportion that  rises to about three quarters for secondary school children. Clearly, Pakistan is some distance away from achieving  universal schooling, even at the primary level. We would therefore call for a reinforced focus on Member States which  are far away from achieving the education for all (EFA) goals.
21.3 Pakistan has been steadfast in upholding the cherished ideals of UNESCO while tackling the forces of terrorism  and extremism. Some extremist forces have been attacking the educational institutions and especially targeting the  education of girls in small pockets of our diverse country. These elements have transformed about 2.5 million people into  internally displaced persons (IDPs). We have just completed a successful operation. Almost all of the IDPs in Swat  Valley have returned to their homes and a massive programme is currently being executed for the repair, renovation and  restoration of damaged schools. As we meet today to assess the mid-Decade progress of EFA, we cannot and should
152  not remain oblivious of the fact that illiteracy, ignorance and poverty breed discontent. It is a sine qua non that UNESCO  and the Member States redouble their efforts to promote EFA in every region of the world.
21.4 Pakistan supports the revised budget ceiling of $653 million for the next biennium, appropriately described by  the Director-General as a budget of priorities and endorsed by the Executive Board. In implementation of this programme  and budget, we would very much like to see an increased focus on strict implementation of results-based management,  good governance and rationalized structure at Headquarters, and further rationalization of administrative costs.
21.5 Mr President, in these defining times, we cannot and must not allow our vision of the twenty-first century to be  dictated by ideologies of intolerance, hate and injustice. UNESCO has an important role to play and Pakistan renews its  commitment to support the Organization in achieving its mission and mandate. Thank you, Mr President.
22. The President:   Thank you very much, Mr Minister, for your remarks. And now I am pleased to call on His Excellency Mr Haran  A. Suleiman, Minister of Education and Vocational Training of the United Republic of Tanzania. You have the floor, Sir.
23.1 Mr Suleiman (United Republic of Tanzania):   Mr President of the General Conference, Mr Director-General of UNESCO, Excellencies, ladies and gentlemen,  as-salāmu ‘alaikum. I am greatly honoured to address the 35th session of the General Conference of UNESCO. Allow  me to congratulate you, Mr President, on your well-deserved election to preside over this session and also to commend  the outgoing President of the 34th session for his exemplary leadership during his term of office. Mr President, the  General Conference provides a unique opportunity in the history of UNESCO. We are about to witness a change in the  leadership of the Organization, with Mr Koïchiro Matsuura, the current Director-General, having served for 10 years and  about to leave the Organization next month. On behalf of my government I would like to express my profound gratitude to  Mr Matsuura for his remarkable service and for the support given to my country to rise to the challenges within the fields  of competence of UNESCO. I would like to ensure Mr Matsuura of my Government’s support to the end of his mandate.  Let me also take this opportunity to congratulate Ms Bokova, the new Director-General the General Conference is called  upon to elect.
23.2 Mr President, following three consecutive biennia of zero nominal growth budgets, this General Conference is  called upon to consider a budget of $653 million, which my Government approves along with the recommendation of the  Executive Board. My Government supported the emphasis put by the Director-General in document 35 C/5 on Priority  Africa, gender equity, least developed countries (LDCs) and the most vulnerable segments of society. I appeal to the  Director-General, in the design of the work plans, to allocate adequate resources to activities in favour of the needy  Member States. Mr President, the world we live in is witnessing unprecedented crises: the food crisis, energy crisis,  environmental crisis and, of late, the global financial and economic meltdown, with an impact on and implication for  society. UNESCO more than ever before is called upon to assist its Member States to rise to these challenges.  UNESCO’s action functions as a laboratory of ideas, a standard-setter, a clearing house, a capacity-builder and a  catalyst for international cooperation in education, science, culture, information and communication, and it is  unchallenged. UNESCO should direct its actions for the attainment of the education for all (EFA) goals and the  education-related Millenium Development Goals (MDGs): quality education for all at all levels, teacher education of high  quality, eradication of illiteracy, promotion of technical and vocational training and skills-building, secondary and higher  education, HIV/AIDS education, equity and inclusiveness, with a particular focus on Africa, including the implementation  of plan of action for the Second Decade of Education for Africa (2006-2015).
23.3 My government would like to see measures addressing capacity-building for the effective exploitation of natural  resources, the extraction of groundwater, the mitigation of and adaptation to climate change, promoting science  education, engineering and renewable energy, responding to Africa’s Science and Technology Consolidated Plan of  Action, bioethics and the ethics of scientific knowledge and technology, and promoting peace and dialogue among  civilizations, cultures and peoples. UNESCO should also play an active role in the promotion of the African “Roads to  Independence: African liberation heritage” programme and the culture of maintenance for sustainable development. My  government is deeply concerned by the digital divide and the ever widening information gap. UNESCO should be at the  forefront in the promotion of open source access and digital libraries. Mr President, my Government has been a close  partner of UNESCO. Through UNESCO we have benefited from policy advice, capacity-building and other forms of  support. I would like to thank the Director-General for the assistance extended to the Open University of Tanzania, the  State University of Zanzibar and the University of Dodoma, and for his prompt action in support of Tanzanian national  science, technology and innovation system review. We also appreciated the support given by the UNESCO International  Institute for Educational Planning through the Southern and Eastern Africa Consortium for Monitoring Education Quality  programme. We would also like to thank the Director-General for having chosen Tanzania to host the regional  conference and Africa’s launch event for the United Nations International Year of Planet Earth in 2008. Mr President, my  government takes note of the progress – in particular with regard to UNESCO’s action in the achievement of the EFA  goals – on the internal reforms of the Organization, UNESCO’s engagement with the United Nations reform and the good  progress made in the implementation of UNESCO conventions in the field of culture. Further, my government supports  the various UNESCO strategies within its fields of competence which ensure effective programme implementation, taking  into account a results-based approach. Finally, I wish once again to thank UNESCO for the support given to my country.  Thank you for listening.   Ms Cummins (Barbados) took the Chair.
24. The President:   Thank you very much, Mr Minister, for your intervention. We now will hear from His Excellency Mr Mattew  Waletofea, Minister of Education of Solomon Islands.
25.1 Mr Waletofea (Solomon Islands):   Mr President, Your Excellencies, I have the honour to speak to you today as Minister of Education of the  Solomon Islands, and I am proud to represent a small Pacific island State. The Solomon Islands is indeed a small island  developing State and every word in this phrase has specific meaning to us. Let me share some of my thoughts on this.  The Solomon Islands is a small nation and one with incredible diversity. We are half a million people spread across a  thousand islands, and the Solomons cover an area about the size of France with a lot of water in between. In our small  country about 80 languages are spoken, many of them by very few people. Too many of these languages are  endangered. I myself translated the Christian New Testament into my mother tongue as a tool to preserve the language.  We strongly count on UNESCO to provide support for the protection and promotion of languages as part of our intangible  heritage. Languages are the vehicle for transmitting culture, education and the human values we all share.
25.2 We are a nation of islands surrounded by water. The Solomons is part of the largest body of water in the world   – the Pacific Ocean – and we are therefore fully exposed to the elements, but also strive to live in harmony with nature.  Climate change, and particularly natural catastrophes such as tsunamis, are a life-threatening reality to our country and  the neighbouring nations of the Pacific. Only two days ago, three successive earthquakes hit the region. This is a reality  we live with every day. We ask UNESCO to step up its efforts, especially through the Intergovernmental Oceanographic  Commission (IOC), to protect our islands. This requires additional funding for ocean research and policy-related action  when it comes to climate change.
25.3 We are a developing country focusing on education. Our country has made significant progress in many areas of  human development, particularly in education. We have managed to keep 180,000 children in our schools and this is  more than a third of our population. Yet we struggle to train the additional teachers required. We are committed to  implementing our national education policy, which aims at reaching universal access. On this note, I was very inspired in  listening to the Indian Minister of Education yesterday. Their experience in legislating the right to education could be a  model for all of us. We salute those efforts and would like to urge UNESCO to push such endeavours at the global level,  and we will look forward to learning more about it through UNESCO’s South-South Cooperation scheme. The Solomons  strongly believes in education. Right now education represents 40% of my government’s budget. I think this is probably a  world record. However, we still need UNESCO’s support to catch up on the goal of universal education and to deliver  these promises to our children. If our current birth rate of 2.8% prevails, and if we want to actually have all children to go  successfully through our schools, the efforts required are tremendous. My officials have reckoned that our small country  will have to open a new classroom every day in order to cope with the demand. We now have some statistics to make  the necessary plans. We have solid policies, but we still need international financial support in order to train the teachers  required in order to improve the overall quality of our education.
25.4 Within the phrase “small island developing State”, the most important for us is the word “State”. A few years ago  the Solomon Islands was a fragile State, but we have come back. A truth and reconciliation commission has been  installed and it is modelled after the much inspiring South African experience. We were proud to have hosted Archbishop  Desmond Tutu recently in the Solomons in order to help us in our efforts to turn our country into a society based on  human rights and dignity. As a small island developing State, the Solomons fully contributes to international cooperation,  especially through the United Nations. As you know, my country is a candidate for the UNESCO Executive Board; it is  the first time since independence in 1978 that our country has been a candidate for this important Board. Our programme  for a four-year tenure is very simple: we pledge to support the new Director-General in her efforts to maintain the reforms  that have been put into place by Mr Matsuura, but also to make further reforms.
25.5 Having read draft document 35 C/5 on my long 30-hour plane ride over to Paris, I am a little puzzled as to what  UNESCO is actually trying to achieve. In short, I believe there is urgent need to significantly slim down the overhead  costs of the Secretariat. This includes the staff costs here at Headquarters, and I am convinced that there is room to  review some programmes in order to put an end to projects with no significant impact on the ground. There is a need to  shift more funds from administration and central services to UNESCO’s priority programmes. My region relies on these.  We need further support to small island developing States, and especially in the Pacific. We invite the new Director- General – and I salute her election – to take a firm stance when reviewing the UNESCO Secretariat and the programmes.  UNESCO needs an external evaluation and this will need to happen under the political guidance provided by Member  States. The Solomons is willing to play an active part in this joint endeavour. UNESCO needs good governance both in  the Secretariat and also in its own governing bodies, and proper regional representation is a prerequisite for this.  Mr President, Your Excellencies, thank you very much.
26. The President:    Thank you very much, Minister, for your insightful remarks. We will now hear from His Excellency Mr Edwin  Wolf, Minister of Education and Community Development of Suriname.
27.1 Mr Wolf (Suriname):   Madam President, Mr Chair of the Executive Board, Mr Director-General of UNESCO, distinguished delegates,  ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the Government and the people of Suriname, and on my own behalf, I would just like  to add my voice to those who have congratulated Mr Hepburn on his election as President of the General Conference.  His election fills us, and the entire Caribbean, with a sense of pride in that it is unprecedented in the Caribbean subregion.  This is a feat that calls for reflection on the road we have travelled. Given his track record, we cannot but express our  confidence in his leadership during the period ahead. We would like to thank the outgoing Director-General, Koïchiro  Matsuura, for his management of UNESCO during the past 10 years. We wish him a well-deserved retirement. Similarly,  we would like to affirm our cooperation with the newly elected Director-General of the Organization.
27.2 Mr President, we thank the Director-General and his staff for the Draft Programme and Budget for 2010-2011,  which testifies to our continuous effort to achieve the ideals of our Organization as envisaged at its inception 60 years  ago. Time and time again, these ideals are overtaken by global events that pose a threat to the achievement of  international security. Human rights violations and the elimination of poverty continue to be the central issues calling for  innovative approaches to their solutions.
27.3 Madam President, with regard to education, and within the context of education for all (EFA), our most  immediate actions for the years ahead will be the full reform of our basic education structure into an 11-year cycle aiming  to improve the quality and increase the efficiency of our basic education. The new system will update the educational  contexts and processes and will strengthen the management capacities both within the Ministry of Education and at  school levels. At the same time, continuous activities are undertaken within the framework of the Millennium  Development Goals, particularly with regard to early childhood care, literacy and gender equality. Madam President, in  the field of culture, we would like to inform you that over the past year our country has witnessed the creation of  conditions for a feasible cultural policy, as well as an increase in cultural activity, notably with regard to the arts, the  performing arts, music education and arts and crafts. In the same vein, the archaeological services and conservation of  monuments will be reactivated through capacity-building activities. As part of a long-range plan, wider management and  the preservation of our historic inner city, which has been placed on the World Heritage List, will be improved. Madam  President, the Slave Route Project was once a flagship of the Culture Sector. However, it is not clear from the draft C/5  document what the status is of the project, whether it has been successfully completed or whether ongoing activities  have been planned in the Member States in the next biennium. Finally, Madam President, in the field of science, we want  to request UNESCO advisory services in the coming biennium for the development of a sustainable plan on science and  technology, especially considering the large volume of medicinal herbs and plants.
27.4 In conclusion, Mr President, we would like to reaffirm our commitment to the ideals of our Organization and the  fundamental role it continues to play in the promotion of peace and tolerance through its fields of competence. We hope  that our Organization will continue to make its contribution to stem the tide of current global adversity, and that every one  of us will strive in unity and harmony to achieve the goals of the Conference and, by extension, the lofty ideals of our  Organization. Thank you.
28. The President:   Thank you very much, Minister, for your intervention. We will now hear from His Excellency Mr Arsene James,  Minister of Education and Culture of Saint Lucia.
29.1 Mr James (Saint Lucia):   Madam President, Mr Director-General, Excellencies, distinguished delegates, ladies and gentlemen, greetings  from the small Caribbean island of Saint Lucia, the only island with twin peaks, called the Pitons, which we are proud to  showcase and request UNESCO support for their preservation and protection as a World Heritage site listing. Madam  President, it is an honour to address the 35th session of UNESCO’s General Conference. Saint Lucia pays recognition to  Mr Matsuura for the sense of purpose with which he undertook his mandate. We congratulate Ms Irina Bokova and look  forward to a woman as head of the Organization. Congratulations are also in order for President Obama.
29.2 Madam President, the international community has committed itself to achieving education for all by the year
2015, but according to the EFA Global Monitoring Report, access and the provision of quality education remain major  challenges. While Saint Lucia has achieved 100% universal access to primary and secondary education, education for all  by 2015 and lifelong learning seem only slogans, as we are struggling with the provision of early childhood education,  adult education, tertiary and technical and vocational education, and also with meeting the demand for higher education  places. The quality imperative has exposed several shortcomings in our system including high rates of illiteracy and  innumeracy and the need for curriculum reform, better infrastructure, better qualified teachers and differentiated teaching  and modalities of instruction. Welfare assistance is required for the vulnerable, less fortunate and for HIV/AIDS victims.  Our experience has shown that access without the means to access is useless. The issue of gender is different for the  Caribbean region. Our boys are underachieving and dropping out of school. They have turned to a culture of frustration,  drug abuse, violence and crime. This volatile situation is anticipated to worsen if action is not taken. For sustainable  development and the reduction of poverty in the Caribbean region, we recommend that UNESCO examine the relevance  of education and provide support for the information and communication technologies. We further recommend that  UNESCO place an emphasis on alternative education, second-chance educational opportunities and the diversification  of educational programmes to cater for the varying interests, gender issues and special-needs students.
29.3 UNESCO must also provide tangible support for cultural development, research, science and technology for  small island developing States like Saint Lucia. UNESCO’s comprehensive cultural framework emanating from the sixth  international conventions is commendable, but there must be convergence at the country level.
29.4 Climate change is having a devastating effect on humanity. In this way, Saint Lucia welcomes the timeliness of  standard-setting and negotiations on a declaration of ethical principles. As we address good governance, the former  President of the General Conference organized the General Conference effectively. His new programmes are  commendable and are already being piloted and implemented. However, the decision-making powers and prerogatives  of the General Conference cannot be weakened or altered. Hence our concerns with the section of the report which  gives precedence to the Executive Board, where respect for rotation is questionable since at least 20% of its Members  are quasi-permanent.
29.5 In closing, Saint Lucia pledges unwavering support for a Caribbean man, Dr Hepburn, who has assessed the  situation as business unusual. His dilemma is glaring. On the one hand, UNESCO’s international objectives have to be  addressed amid the global financial meltdown, the economic crisis, the social crisis and food and security crises. On the
155  other hand, UNESCO’s regular budget is not congruent with these unprecedented times. In the interim, extrabudgetary  funds are required and, I emphasize, for equitable distribution throughout our regions. Given the lack of foresight and  anticipation of the social and economic crises, there are important lessons to be learned. These lessons include the need  for evaluation and subsequently, the need for astute leadership, a clear focus, streamlining and the creation of innovative  solutions. Saint Lucia remains steadfast and reaffirms our commitment to UNESCO. We are grateful to our Ambassador  to UNESCO, His Excellency Gilbert Chagoury, and to our Permanent Delegation for keeping the faith. We wish a  successful tenure to the President of this 35th session. May it be a beacon for a better Planet Earth. We look forward to  country-level implementation. I thank you for your attention.
(31) M. Al-Khuzaay (Iraq) (traduit de l’arabe):   Au Nom de Dieu le Très généreux, qui a enseigné à l’homme par le calame ; qui a enseigné à l’homme ce qu’il ne  savait pas. Monsieur le Président, Mesdames et Messieurs, que la paix soit avec vous et les bénédictions de Dieu et ses  bienfaits. N’est-ce pas une béatitude et une fierté d’exercer un métier qui prolonge l’œuvre des prophètes et des messagers,  celle des hommes de bien et des réformateurs ? Il est tout à notre honneur d’ouvrer à la restructuration de l’esprit et de vouloir  changer l’homme au plus profonde de lui-même ; cet homme que le Ciel a distingué, puisque le Tout Puissant dit dans son  Coran : “Nous avons honoré le fils d’Adam“. Assurément, la philosophie de l’éducation poursuit un noble objectif et un dessein  grandiose : essentiellement l’édification de l’homme bon qui, par le bien qu’il représente, orne et développe la vie. A défaut,  l’homme multiplie les crises et les aggrave et finit par anéantir ses semblables et jusqu’aux pierres, aux arbres, à l’eau, à l’air  et à l’espace : il va vers la catastrophe si l’éducation ne bride pas sa conduite et n’atténue pas ses ravages. C’est l’éducation  qui le dévie de sa course vers le mal et de sa propension à l’agression. Une éducation efficace, consciente et paisible peut  emmener le genre humain vers les rivages de la sûreté, de l’amour et de la fraternité, de la communication et de la solidarité.  Elle l’élève vers à des hauteurs insoupçonnées où il atteint au sublime, aux valeurs éternelles que nous poursuivons tous et  dont nous avons le plus grand besoin. L’éducation que nous prônons et appelons de nos vœux, Mesdames et Messieurs, est  nécessairement inscrite dans les limites d’une vision humaine et bonne, susceptible de renforcer l’amour de l’homme pour son
156  frère l’homme. Elle lui permet de voir en l’autre soit un frère en religion, soit son semblable et son égal en droits, pour qui il  souhaite ce qu’il aimerait pour lui-même. Commençons donc ce voyage vers le bien afin de construire la société de la vertu et  de la solidarité, une société sans séparations ni disparités entre les hommes sur les plans de la science, de l’économie et de  la culture. N’est-il pas scandaleux que les uns mangent jusqu’à l’indigestion alors que d’autres, leurs semblables, meurent de  faim ? N’est-il pas absurde que certains avancent à grands vers la connaissance, en toute quiétude, profitant de ce que la  technologie offre de meilleur, alors que des millions de gens sombrent dans un les ténèbres de l’analphabétisme ? N’est-il pas  incompréhensible que d’aucuns voient leurs frères dans les affres de l’ignorance, de la pauvreté et de la maladie et ne leur  portent pas secours ? Et je ne parle pas ici de l’aide humanitaire que les riches octroient aux pauvres, mais d’une éducation  tendant vers une culture de solidarité et de complémentarité, vers la responsabilité partagée, la fraternité véritable, la  coexistence dans ce village mondial où la science a supprimé les distances, transformant la planète en une mécanique dont  chaque partie affecte l’ensemble, en bien ou en mal. L’éducation que nous voulons est une opération de rénovation de nous- mêmes, un projet d’infrastructure pour l’éthique et les valeurs de nos fils afin que, lorsqu’ils assumeront les responsabilités à  leur tour, ils servent le bien, la justice, l’amour, la paix et l’entente. Afin qu’ils triomphent de toutes les causes de la peur, de la  terreur, des ferments du mal et de la haine, de la guerre et de la souffrance. Cela n’adviendra que si les travailleurs de  l’éducation et ceux qui président aux destinées de l’enseignement adoptent une voie de conciliation, fondée sur des valeurs  partagées, ayant pour but la coopération, l’entraide et l’harmonie. Ces points communs existent et sont même innombrables et  ils permettraient à l’homme de vivre dans la dignité, le respect de son humanité, de ses droits, de sa volonté et de ses  opinions, sans distinction, à l’abri de la tyrannie et de l’arbitraire. Nous voulons une éducation qui renforce nos relations  humaines et nous donne l’espoir d’une vie digne et libre où nous marcherions à grands pas vers un développement universel  sans que personne ne reste au bord du chemin. Ainsi l’arme se transformera en outil et les champs de mine laisseraient la  place aux torrents et aux sillons porteurs d’épis. Voilà un grand rêve et dessein grandiose parfaitement possible, j’en suis  convaincu, pour peu que s’y attèlent les bonnes volontés, le travail scientifique, les professionnels et les chevaliers de  l’éducation qui respectent la bonne gouvernance au sein de notre noble organisation, avec le concours des chercheurs de  l’utile, du beau et du juste. Il n’est rien d’impossible aux hommes résolus. Mes chers collègues, dans la lutte des civilisations,  nous avons la ferme volonté d’approfondir cette démarche et de suivre ce cap, afin de faire de notre diversité ethnique une  richesse et un atout qui renforce le tissu social. Ainsi nous parviendrons à une mosaïque de toutes les couleurs de l’arc en ciel,  représentant un Iraq heureux. L’histoire et la réalité ne montrent-elles pas que la pluralité des composantes de ce pays est à  l’origine de son génie créateur ? En conclusion, permettez-moi de répandre dans votre auguste Assemblée ces fleurs de lys,  symboles d’amitié, offertes par vos frères du pays des deux fleuves, la Mésopotamie. Elles expriment leur reconnaissance  sincère pour votre soutien au moment de l’épreuve. Je tiens aussi à vous rassurer : l’Iraq et son peuple vont bien. Ils  commencent une ère de reconstruction et d’invention qui leur permettra, si Dieu le veut, de compenser les pertes et  d’améliorer l’acquis. Puissiez-vous demeurer, ainsi que l’UNESCO, l’emblème de l’amour, du bien et des nouveaux départs. A  tous ceux qui nous ont aidés et qui aident les hommes où qu’ils soient, un grand merci ! Que la paix soit avec vous.
32. The President:   Thank you, Excellency, for the eloquence of your words. We are now delighted to welcome Her Excellency  Ms María Elena Caraballo Castegnaro, Minister of Culture of Costa Rica, to this podium.
(33.1) Mme Carballo Castegnaro (Costa Rica) (traduit de l’espagnol) :   Monsieur le Président, Monsieur le Président du Conseil exécutif, Monsieur le Directeur général, Mesdames et  Messieurs les membres de la Conférence générale. Sur le plan culturel le Costa Rica met en œuvre huit mesures concrètes  en partant du principe que la culture est un élément stratégique de développement. Cette politique s’inscrit dans le cadre de la  promotion et de la protection de la diversité culturelle qui, selon l’UNESCO, permettent de créer un monde riche et varié  favorisant le développement durable des communautés, des peuples et des nations. Ces mesures, qui coïncident avec la  vision et les objectifs de l’UNESCO, devraient susciter un engagement accru de l’Organisation en faveur du Costa Rica. Les  idées connues sous le nom de « consensus du Costa Rica », et promues dans le monde entier par le Président Oscar Arias,  prix Nobel de la paix comme le Président Obama, encadrent le désir de notre pays de se rapprocher de l’UNESCO en  proposant que les organismes, pays et banques internationales investissent leurs fonds de coopération sur la base non  seulement de critères d’efficacité, mais aussi de critères éthiques.
(33.2) Le Costa Rica est un petit pays à la culture diversifiée. L’exposition d’art précolombien intitulée « Costa Rica, Terre  de merveilles », organisée en collaboration avec le Musée de Pointe-à-Callière de Montréal (Canada), montrait un habitant  précolombien costaricien entouré d’objets de cultures très différentes de celles de son entourage proche. Nous maintenons  actuellement le pays ouvert à l’immigration et nous intégrons nos immigrants dans le système scolaire gratuit et obligatoire et  le système de couverture santé universelle. Le Costa Rica est le pays d’Amérique latine où l’immigration est la plus forte et  c’est l’un des principaux pays d’immigration de l’hémisphère. En outre, l’intensité du tourisme enrichit les expériences  multiculturelles des Costariciens. Notre politique culturelle s’adresse à cette population hétérogène selon deux axes d’action :  le premier porte sur la diffusion et la promotion de l’expression culturelle par l’État, le second sur l’aide aux initiatives  culturelles indépendantes. Ces deux axes d’action renforcent les différents principes définis par l’UNESCO comme base de la  protection de la diversité culturelle.
(33.3) La diffusion et la promotion de la culture par l’État favorisent une plus grande expression et un plus grand plaisir de  l’art et de la culture, améliorant ainsi la qualité de vie et développant un capital humain créatif et novateur. Vingt-huit écoles de  musique dans tout le pays, des activités artistiques et culturelles dans 70 % de nos cantons, un investissement massif dans  les édifices patrimoniaux du Ministère de la culture, qui étaient à l’abandon depuis plus de vingt ans, une augmentation de
150 % du budget dans soixante bibliothèques, avec la numérisation de 1 749 des documents qui y sont conservés : tout cela  montre comment le Ministère de la culture a investi au cours des trois dernières  années pour aider à développer un capital  humain créatif, qui sache apprendre, conformément à une stratégie de développement gouvernementale qui passe  nécessairement par la connaissance et qui recherche l’innovation. Parmi les initiatives culturelles indépendantes encouragées  figure, par exemple, PROARTES, fonds qui sert à financer des projets artistiques indépendants. PROARTES favorise les  initiatives non gouvernementales et fait en sorte que le budget gouvernemental, qui est en train d’être triplé, soit investi dans  des projets artistiques créateurs d’emplois au lieu d’être détourné vers la bureaucratie. PROARTES, le soutien apporté à  l’audiovisuel et à la création responsable, les festivals et les contrats pour la conservation et la restauration du patrimoine ont  généré plus de 5 200 emplois non gouvernementaux en période de crise économique, dans un pays dont la population s’élève  à quatre millions d’habitants.
(33.4) Nous préparons la candidature de Sarchí en tant que Ville d’artisanat et des arts populaires du Réseau des villes  créatives de l’UNESCO, avec des ateliers de planification de la gestion et de conception de stratégies et de cadres destinés à  renforcer les petites, moyennes et microentreprises d’artisanat. Nous célébrons dès à présent l’année 2010, Année  internationale du rapprochement des cultures, avec un orchestre de jeunes d’Amérique centrale qui bénéficie une fois par an  d’ateliers organisés par des musiciens du Philharmonique de Berlin ; avec les vingt-huit écoles et orchestres de musique, qui  ont reçu une formation et l’appui de Midori et du système vénézuélien ; avec une exposition itinérante qui emmène à travers  l’Amérique centrale le meilleur de nos arts plastiques ; et avec la programmation d’un festival artistique international qui  favorisera le dialogue entre le Costa Rica et la région centraméricaine et des créations artistiques du monde entier. Ainsi, non  seulement nous faisons naître des talents, mais nous en attirons aussi. Notre politique culturelle suit l’engagement du  gouvernement de consacrer 1 % du budget national à la culture. L’UNESCO a inspiré la mesure du 1 % et la reconnaissance  progressive de la durabilité et de la richesse de la multiculturalité.
(33.5) Dans son livre intitulé « Dancing in the dark », Morris Dickstein affirme que pendant la crise économique des années
30 aux États-Unis, de nombreuses personnes qui travaillaient dans le secteur de la banque ou dans l’industrie manufacturière  se réfugièrent dans des emplois liés à la littérature, à la musique ou au cinéma, qui étaient peu payés, mais apportaient  beaucoup de satisfaction. En outre, selon Dickstein, les arts rapprochèrent les gens dans leur effort collectif pour comprendre  leur situation difficile, se consoler et surmonter cette épreuve. Le Gouvernement costaricien, conscient de cela, renforce les
158  capacités du Ministère de la culture en suivant les principes de dialogue, de multiculturalité et de créativité encouragés par  l’UNESCO. Je vous remercie.
34. The President:   Muchísimas gracias, señora, por vuestras palabras. We now welcome to the podium His Excellency Mr Bertel  Haarder, Minister of Education of Denmark.
35.1 Mr Haarder (Denmark):   Madam President, Mr Chair of the Executive Board, ladies and gentlemen, Denmark appreciates the  achievements made during the term of office of Mr Matsuura, particularly the persistent efforts to initiate a reform and  evaluation process, and the efforts to make UNESCO a serious and critical member of the United Nations family. We  trust that Ambassador Bokova will be able to continue and develop the work further.
35.2 We are all hampered by the financial crisis, but this crisis cannot in any way serve as justification for developed  countries to slow down our commitments. Donor aid plays a crucial role in achieving the internationals goals. We must   all take part in development strategies through co-ownership and commitment to further good governance, and to  promote entrepreneurship and growth led by the private sector.
35.3 Concerning climate change, which is another big challenge, UNESCO has a crucial role to play through  capacity-building and guidance, especially in relation to developing countries. We need focus on research and climate  change in education.
35.4 We like the way UNESCO is developing. We advocate that UNESCO should strengthen its focus on core issues  and demonstrate commitment to ensure progress in its work. UNESCO’s upstream and normative work through policy  advice and capacity-building is necessary in executing this work. We believe that the reform initiatives must be continued  to keep UNESCO in line with the development of the United Nations system.
35.5 Education is a driver for change, an investment to reduce poverty and also an individual human right. There was  an old man in his eighties who started primary school at that age, and halfway through he declared: “education is  freedom”. That is exactly what it is. Unfortunately, he died before he finished but he learned what value education has.  We see progress in certain countries but there is certainly a long way to go and UNESCO should lead the way. Within  the framework of education for all (EFA), Denmark wants to enhance the focus on post-primary education, on technical  and vocational training and on lifelong learning. There should be an increased focus on the quality of education in order  to reach the United Nations goals. Denmark welcomes the priority given to the 20 countries farthest away from achieving  the EFA goals, and also the priority given to gender equality and empowerment of women. We are convinced that gender  equality is a key to accelerating progress, a means of achieving all the development goals.
35.6 Let me finally underline that intercultural dialogue, understanding and cooperation at the international level are of  utmost importance. The cooperation with the Alliance of Civilizations should be further developed. The Copenhagen  Conference last year on Education for Intercultural Understanding and Dialogue was a step in that direction. Let me also  underline that freedom of expression is one of the fundamental rights of a democratic, pluralistic society. Therefore,  Denmark advocates that UNESCO should focus on the development of independent media, on freedom of speech and  on the safety of journalists. Finally, I would like to congratulate the President of the General Conference on his election. I  look forward to having the Faroe Islands among us as an Associate Member soon. Thank you.
36. The President:   Thank you very much, Minister, for your remarks. We now welcome Her Excellency Ms Maria de Lurdes  Rodrigues, Minister of Education of Portugal.
37.1 Mme  Rodrigues (Portugal) (interprétation du portugais) :   Monsieur le Président de la Conférence générale, Monsieur le Directeur général de l’UNESCO, Mesdames et  Messieurs les ministres, Chers délégués, Mesdames et Messieurs, en premier lieu, Monsieur le Président, j’aimerais  vous féliciter pour votre élection. J’aimerais aussi remercier le Directeur général de l’UNESCO pour le travail qu’il a  réalisé ces dix dernières années, et j’aimerais également féliciter la candidate désignée pour le poste de Directeur  général, dont j’espère voir approuvée la nomination par cette Conférence générale.
37.2 L’éducation est non seulement un droit fondamental mais aussi une condition nécessaire à la promotion du  développement durable de tous les pays. La persistance de phénomènes tels que la pauvreté et l’inégalité, ainsi que  l’émergence de problèmes tels que l’impact des changements climatiques et la crise économique et financière actuelle  rendent ce constat encore plus évident et nous placent face à de nouveaux défis. De ce fait, les programmes de  l’UNESCO pour l’éducation devront intégrer les principes et les pratiques du développement durable, et ce, dans tous les  domaines de l’apprentissage, afin que chaque individu ait la possibilité d’acquérir les connaissances lui permettant de  contribuer à un avenir socialement plus juste et économiquement plus viable.
37.3 Nous savons que l’Internet est, de nos jours, l’un des grands espaces où se jouent l’inclusion et l’exclusion  économique, sociale et culturelle. Nous savons aussi que, dans ce contexte, la préparation des nouvelles générations à  la société de la connaissance constitue un objectif incontournable de l’UNESCO et une responsabilité accrue pour  chacun des systèmes éducatifs nationaux. Ces deux dernières années, les écoles portugaises ont connu une  transformation profonde dans l’usage des technologies de l’information et de la communication et dans l’accès à ces  dernières, que ce soit pour les élèves ou pour les professeurs. Dans le cadre du programme appelé « Plan  technologique de l’Éducation nationale », toutes les écoles portugaises ont été dotées d’équipements technologiques et  d’un réseau de communication de nouvelle génération. Tous les enseignants ont aujourd’hui accès dans des conditions  privilégiées à des ordinateurs portables, à une plate-forme numérique où sont partagés des contenus, ainsi qu’à un
159  programme intégré de formation et de certification conçu dans le but de généraliser les compétences pédagogiques  dans l’utilisation des technologies de l’information et de la communication. Et, par une opération inédite au niveau  mondial, plus de 400 000 élèves du premier cycle de l’enseignement primaire ont reçu un ordinateur portable personnel  nommé « Magellan ». Des milliers d’enseignants à travers tout le pays ont accueilli, avec un grand sens de la modernité  et de la responsabilité, ce nouvel outil d’enseignement, de communication et d’accès à l’information et à la connaissance.  L’usage plus intensif de ces nouveaux moyens ouvre à de nouvelles possibilités de formation des futurs citoyens, les  préparant à participer à un monde plus global et plus cosmopolite. L’expérience portugaise dans ce domaine s’inscrit  déjà au catalogue des meilleures pratiques mondiales, reconnaissance qui s’est concrétisée très récemment par  l’inclusion du Portugal dans le noyau restreint des pays fondateurs de l’initiative « Assessment and Teaching of 21st  Century Skills ». Partager cette expérience avec le monde, et en particulier avec les pays partenaires de la Communauté  des pays de langue portugaise, est un défi que nous assumons avec satisfaction et un sens accru de la responsabilité.
37.4 Un des domaines essentiels dans lesquels se concrétisent les dilemmes moraux liés aux possibilités accrues  d’agir que permet le développement technologique, est le domaine de la bioéthique. Les politiques visant à la promotion  d’un développement humain intégral prennent ici tout leur relief. Les découvertes scientifiques continuelles et toujours  plus stimulantes dans le domaine des sciences de la vie, les possibilités de mobilisation graduelle et toujours plus  complexe de moyens techniques pour la manipulation de la vie, du corps humain et des données génétiques de chaque  homme et de chaque femme, nous imposent une attention redoublée. Dans ce domaine, plus que dans aucun autre,  nous ne pouvons prendre le risque d’ouvrir une boîte de Pandore, que nous ne saurions pas refermer par la suite. Dans  ce domaine, plus que dans aucun autre, nous devons maintenir le contrôle social des résultats du développement  scientifique et technologique. Nous devons mener en permanence un exercice de réflexion approfondie sur les  conséquences de nos décisions. Confrontés aux dilemmes moraux découlant de l’utilisation des résultats du  développement de techniques biologiques, les gouvernements des États membres de l’UNESCO, après avoir adopté la  Déclaration universelle sur la bioéthique et les droits de l’homme, doivent continuer à promouvoir l’étude approfondie des  contours de la bioéthique et la définition de principes juridiques qui orientent la recherche et, surtout, les applications  dans ce domaine aussi fascinant que périlleux.
37.5 Ayant à l’esprit que l’Afrique est une des priorités de l’UNESCO, je saisis cette occasion pour rappeler  l’importance et la signification du Sommet Union européenne/Afrique, qui s’est tenu à Lisbonne en décembre 2007. Cela  fut un tournant, non seulement pour l’avenir des deux continents, mais aussi pour une « coopération triangulaire »  enrichie – Union européenne/Afrique/UNESCO –, dans les domaines de l’éducation, de la science, de la technologie et  de la culture. La nouvelle stratégie commune pour le développement du continent africain comprend des aspects qui  relèvent du mandat de l’UNESCO. Il est du devoir de l’Organisation, et aussi de notre responsabilité commune, de nous  engager dans le suivi du Sommet dans le cadre de notre mandat et de celui de l’UNESCO, en renforçant la coopération  avec l’Union africaine, en mettant en œuvre la seconde Décennie pour l’éducation en Afrique, ainsi que le Plan d’action  pour la science et la technologie.
37.6 Le Portugal accompagne attentivement les efforts de l’Union européenne et du Conseil de l’Europe dans le but  de promouvoir le multilinguisme, ainsi que les initiatives de l’UNESCO pour la préservation du pluralisme linguistique. Le  Portugal exerce la présidence de la Communauté des pays de langue portugaise (CPLP), dans le cadre de laquelle la  langue portugaise est envisagée en tant qu’instrument de communication entre les peuples et de développement  économique, social et culturel. En ce sens, le Portugal s’associe à l’appel lancé par le Brésil pour que le portugais  devienne une langue de travail de l’UNESCO.
37.7 L’initiative du Gouvernement portugais visant la création prochaine, sous les auspices de l’UNESCO, d’un  centre ayant son siège au Portugal, destiné à la formation avancée en sciences dans les pays de langue portugaise, a  pour objectif de créer des capacités, de promouvoir la responsabilisation sociale et de combattre la fuite des cerveaux.  En 2010, la CPLP approuvera une stratégie commune pour les océans. Il s’agit d’une initiative importante. En ce qui  concerne la Commission océanographique intergouvernementale, je voudrais dire que le Portugal, reconnaissant  l’importance du travail mené depuis 50 ans par la Commission, souhaite fortement contribuer à ce que son activité se  poursuive à l’avenir.
37.8 En tant que forum de débat privilégié, la Conférence générale doit être envisagée comme un lieu de  réaffirmation de l’engagement politique des États membres à l’égard de la mission et des objectifs de l’UNESCO. Le  Portugal continuera à assumer cet engagement dans la perspective de sa concrétisation dans les domaines qui,  aujourd’hui, plus que jamais, sont essentiels au développement humain. Je vous remercie.
38. The President:   Muito obrigada senhora (Thank you very much, Madam). Her Excellency Ms Soraya Rodríguez Ramos is the  next speaker that we will welcome to the podium. Secretary of State of Spain, thank you.
(39.1) Mme Rodríguez Ramos (Espagne) (traduit de l’espagnol) :   Monsieur le Directeur général, Monsieur Matsuura, Monsieur le Président de la Conférence générale, Mesdames et  Messieurs les Ministres, Mesdames, Messieurs, je souhaiterais en premier lieu saluer le travail accompli par M. Matsuura à la  tête de l’Organisation et lui exprimer, au nom de mon gouvernement, nos meilleurs vœux pour la nouvelle étape de sa vie qu’il  s’apprête à entamer. De même, nous sommes convaincus que la candidate proposée par le Conseil exécutif, Mme Bokova,  poursuivra l’action remarquable qu’il a menée et je saisis cette occasion pour la féliciter et lui offrir tout l’appui dont elle aura  désormais besoin pour accomplir sa tâche. Son élection marque également un tournant dans l’histoire de l’Organisation,  puisque c’est la première fois qu’une femme est proposée pour assumer la plus haute fonction de l’UNESCO, ce dont nous  nous félicitons également.
(39.2) Mesdames et Messieurs, nous savons tous que le XXIe siècle est marqué par l’accès à la culture et à la gestion du  savoir, qui conduit au bien-être et à un développement humain plus durable et plus juste. L’éducation, la réflexion, la  recherche, la liberté d’expression et la création culturelle sont les fondements d’une société plus démocratique. Le  Gouvernement espagnol est fermement convaincu qu’il faut œuvrer à la réalisation de ces objectifs dans le cadre d’un  multilatéralisme effectif. Les grands défis auxquels nous devons faire face, qui vont de la faim dans le monde au changement  climatique, en passant par les guerres ou la crise financière, nécessitent davantage que des actions individuelles ; ils  appellent un effort collectif.
(39.3) Mesdames, Messieurs, je suis tout à fait convaincue que nous ne parviendrons pas à édifier une société plus  pacifique si nous ne relevons pas le défi de la lutte contre la faim et la pauvreté. Une cohorte de plus d’un milliard d’hommes  et de femmes souffre en silence de la faim aujourd’hui dans le monde. Unissons nos efforts pour asseoir la démocratie, car la  question de la faim aujourd’hui, pour notre génération, n’est pas tant un problème de nourriture qu’un problème de droits.
(39.4) La confiance que nous plaçons en cette organisation nous a conduit à être son cinquième plus important donateur  de ressources extrabudgétaires, avec une contribution qui est passée de 2 millions d’euros en 2005 à près de 10,5 millions en
2008. Nous voudrions affirmer ici, aujourd’hui, qu’en ces temps difficiles pour tous nos pays, cette organisation, l’UNESCO,  peut encore compter sur l’engagement et le soutien de l’Espagne. Nous concentrons nos efforts, de concert avec  l’Organisation, sur l’éducation, les politiques scientifiques, la coopération culturelle au service du développement et l’Alliance  des civilisations.
(39.5) Dans le domaine de l’éducation, nous nous efforçons de renforcer certains des principaux programmes de  l’UNESCO et de consolider son rôle de chef de file mondial de l’Éducation pour tous. S’agissant de la culture, l’UNESCO est  devenue une référence incontestable et un acteur privilégié de la coopération culturelle au service du développement. Nous
161  avons clairement démontré notre engagement en faveur de la culture et du développement avec les 95,6 millions de dollars  de crédits que nous avons ouverts, dans le cadre du Fonds PNUD/Espagne pour la réalisation des OMD, au titre du volet  « Culture et développement » géré par l’UNESCO.
(39.6) Mesdames, Messieurs, nous sommes également convaincus qu’en cette période, face aux défis du XXIe siècle, nous  avons l’obligation d’établir des passerelles pour favoriser la compréhension et le dialogue entre les communautés, les pays et  les civilisations. Dans cette tâche, l’UNESCO a un objectif essentiel qu’elle partage avec l’Alliance des civilisations. Nous  pensons que cette dernière dépasse les divisions nées des différentes cultures et religions, grâce à des actions concrètes  axées sur la prévention des conflits et l’édification de la paix. Le dialogue, la promotion de la diversité culturelle et la lutte pour  la liberté d’expression et la liberté de la presse sont des éléments fondamentaux à notre époque. L’UNESCO est la seule  organisation internationale dont l’une des principales responsabilités est de promouvoir ces deux droits fondamentaux  universels que sont la liberté d’expression et la liberté de la presse et, compte tenu des menaces qui pèsent aujourd’hui sur  ces deux libertés en différents endroits de la planète, il nous faut renforcer l’action dans ce domaine en collaboration avec  l’Organisation.
(39.7) Dans ce contexte, Excellences, Mesdames, Messieurs, je souhaite vous dire que la réforme du système des Nations  Unies doit encourager l’UNESCO à aller plus loin dans son processus de réforme interne. L’Espagne se tiendra aux côtés de  l’UNESCO face à ce défi. Nous croyons que les fonds octroyés par l’Espagne aux Nations Unies pour lancer des exercices  conjoints, rassemblant les organismes du système, sur un même territoire, vont porter leurs fruits. Soyez assurés de la volonté  de mon gouvernement, et en particulier des responsables des politiques de coopération pour le développement, de mettre au  point des propositions et des initiatives qui nous permettent d’apporter des réponses justes aux inégalités qui persistent à  notre époque. Je vous remercie.
40. The President:   Muchas gracias. Thank you very much for Spain’s commitment to the continuation of UNESCO’s mandate. We  will now welcome to the podium His Excellency Mr Lytu Bouapao.
41.1 M. Bouapao (République démocratique populaire lao) :   Monsieur le Président de la Conférence générale, Monsieur le Président du Conseil exécutif, Monsieur le  Directeur général, Excellences, Mesdames et Messieurs, au nom de la délégation lao, je tiens à féliciter M. Davidson  Hepburn pour son élection à la présidence de la 35e session de la Conférence générale. Je suis convaincu, Monsieur le  Président, que sous votre conduite, les travaux de cette auguste assemblée seront fructueux et couronnés de succès. Je  voudrais également féliciter et remercier le Directeur général, M. Koïchiro Matsuura, pour les contributions qu’il a  apportées et le dévouement dont il a fait preuve dans la réalisation des programmes de l'UNESCO durant les dix années  de son mandat. Notre délégation est heureuse du choix de Mme Irina Bokova pour le poste de Directeur général. Nous  lui souhaitons plein succès dans l’accomplissement de la mission que les États membres vont lui confier.
41.2 Monsieur le Président, au moment où s'ouvre la 35e session de la Conférence générale, les problèmes que  constituent la crise économique et financière, la pénurie alimentaire et le changement climatique continuent d’occuper  nos esprits et se posent aujourd'hui avec une acuité particulière. À ces problèmes, s'ajoutent des catastrophes naturelles  qui ont causé des dégâts humains et matériels dans de nombreux pays. Ces problèmes et ces catastrophes naturelles  entraîneront des coûts considérables pour tous les gouvernements concernés, sans exception, surtout les plus pauvres.
41.3 La crise économique et financière renvoie à des interrogations universelles. Qu'est-ce qui rend l'être humain  heureux ? Qu'est-ce qui peut être considéré comme un progrès durable ? Quelles sont les conditions d'une vie sociale  juste, équitable et harmonieuse ? L'UNESCO n'est-elle pas, parmi les partenaires qui jouissent de la confiance des pays  en développement comme des pays industrialisés, capable, grâce à ses programmes et à son action, de jouer un rôle  essentiel dans la stabilisation des économies et des sociétés ? Rappelons en effet pour mémoire que l'Acte constitutif de  l'UNESCO insiste sur l'importance de la coopération internationale dans les secteurs sociaux, notamment l'éducation, les  sciences et la culture, pour reconstruire l'économie et les sociétés. C'est peut-être trop demander à l'UNESCO, mais  investir dans les services sociaux et les biens publics mondiaux, ce n'est pas faire acte de charité, c'est investir dans  l'avenir. C’est pour toutes ces raisons que notre délégation appuie la proposition de croissance réelle zéro faite par le  Directeur général, qui est le fruit d'un processus de consultation et qui s’aligne sur l'orientation et les priorités définies  dans la Stratégie à moyen terme pour 2008-2013. Ainsi, les objectifs primordiaux et les objectifs stratégiques du
34 C/4 que la Conférence générale a approuvés sont traduits dans le projet de 35 C/5. Il est à noter que le Programme  et budget proposé permettra à l'Organisation de s'acquitter, au bénéfice de la communauté internationale, de ses cinq  fonctions principales.
41.4 Monsieur le Président, pour ce qui est de notre pays, l'évaluation, en 2008, de la réalisation à mi-parcours du  Plan d'action national de l'éducation pour tous a indiqué qu'un net progrès a été réalisé. Le taux net de scolarisation en  primaire a atteint 91,6 %. L'indice de la parité des sexes est de 1,01. Le taux d'accès à l'enseignement dans les deux  cycles du secondaire s'est donc accru rapidement. L'enseignement technique et professionnel ainsi que l'enseignement  supérieur se sont développés. Le taux d'alphabétisation des adultes se situe à 77,9 %. Afin d'atteindre les Objectifs du  Millénaire et de l'Éducation pour tous en 2015, le gouvernement a construit des internats et mis en place des  programmes alimentaires pour les enfants des zones rurales isolées du pays et a intégré l'éducation inclusive dans le  système d'enseignement général. Se basant sur les résultats obtenus et sur la Déclaration de Paris et celle de Vientiane  sur l'efficacité de l'aide au développement, le Ministère de l'éducation a élaboré, en collaboration avec les principaux  partenaires concernés, le cadre d'action pour le développement du secteur éducatif 2000-2015. Ce plan d'action a défini  quatre axes prioritaires : l'application du nouveau cursus de l'enseignement général, qui dure 12 années ; la promotion  de l'accès à l'enseignement obligatoire et l'amélioration de la qualité et de l'équité de l'éducation ; la mise en œuvre de la  stratégie et du plan de formation des enseignants et le développement des écoles techniques et professionnelles, ainsi  que des enseignements supérieurs, en vue de répondre aux besoins du développement socio-économique du pays. Au  nom du Gouvernement de la République démocratique populaire lao, notre délégation tient à remercier l'UNESCO,  notamment son Bureau régional à Bangkok, pour son aide dans la mise en œuvre du Plan d'action national de
162  l'Éducation pour tous. Nous tenons également à remercier les organisations internationales, gouvernementales et non  gouvernementales pour leur collaboration, tant technique que financière. Nous souhaitons pouvoir encore compter sur  cette coopération qui nous permettra d'atteindre les objectifs de l'Éducation pour tous d'ici à 2015.
41.5 Monsieur le Président, dans le domaine de la culture notre gouvernement accorde une importance particulière à  la conservation et à la valorisation de la culture nationale. La Loi sur le patrimoine national est entrée en vigueur depuis  la fin de 2005. Nous sommes en train de constituer le dossier de candidature de la montagne karstique de Hin Namno,  pour son éventuelle inscription sur la Liste du patrimoine naturel mondial de l'humanité. Soucieux de protéger et de  préserver le patrimoine culturel immatériel de notre pays, notre gouvernement va procéder à la ratification de la  Convention pour la sauvegarde du patrimoine culturel immatériel. Pour terminer, nous souhaitons que la Conférence  générale soit couronnée d’un franc succès. Merci de votre attention.
42. The President:   Merci, Monsieur. The next speaker on our list is Her Excellency Ms Becky Ndjoze-Ojo, Deputy Minister of  Education of Namibia. Welcome, Minister.
43.1 Ms Ndjoze-Ojo (Namibia):   Madam President, Mr Chair of the UNESCO Executive Board, Mr Director-General, Your Excellencies, ladies  and gentlemen, good morning. Allow me to congratulate Mr Hepburn on his election as President of the 35th session of  the UNESCO General Conference.
43.2 The Draft Programme and Budget for the next biennium demonstrates clear efforts by UNESCO to move  towards greater concentration, focus and prioritization of its activities and resources to achieve tangible results and a  greater impact in Member States. It is our sincere hope that these principles will underpin the development and  implementation of the work plans at both UNESCO Headquarters and in the field. Namibia is pleased to note that Africa  and gender equality are maintained as global priorities. It is extremely important to develop quantifiable indicators and  baseline data. This will enable us to monitor and evaluate the extent to which UNESCO programme sectors have  addressed the global priorities in concrete terms.
43.3 With regards to education, Namibia recognizes UNESCO’s global leadership in education. Hence, our  delegation stresses the importance of the education-related biennial sectoral priorities to achieve education for all (EFA).  The provision of accessible quality education for all has been, and remains, the preoccupation of the Namibian  Government, attracting a quarter of the national budget. Namibia has therefore developed a long-term and  comprehensive education and training sector improvement programme (ETSIP) in order to address issues of broadened  access, improved quality, equity of access and relevance of the education system. Our various programmes and  activities in the education and training sector are also intended to contribute, in a holistic manner, to the achievement of  the six inclusive and interrelated EFA goals, and the relevant Millennium Development Goals. The world conferences on  education are extremely important. UNESCO therefore needs to pay particular attention to the implementation of the  recommendations of those conferences during the coming biennium.
43.4 With regard to the natural sciences, Namibia welcomes the focus on policies and capacity-building in science,  technology and innovation for sustainable development and poverty eradication. Hence, our request, once again, for the  strengthening of the basic sciences programme. We further appreciate the focus on disaster preparedness and  mitigation as biennial priorities. Namibia urges UNESCO to continue supporting Member States in the areas of training in,  and management of, water resources; the promotion and use of renewable energy resources; and the promotion of the  value and use of indigenous knowledge systems.
43.5 Concerning the social and human sciences, Namibia supports the emphasis on their contribution to critical  global social and ethical issues. We welcome the focus on poverty eradication, on fostering peace and dialogue among  civilizations and cultures, on promoting philosophical reflections and debates, on promoting human rights and on the fight  against discrimination. For these ideals to become a reality, however, UNESCO needs to pay urgent attention to the  strengthening of related activities in the cluster offices. This should include the decentralization of adequate financial and  human resources. Youth has become a concern in many countries, and Namibia wishes to encourage UNESCO to do  more to involve youth in its programmes and activities in order to address youth unemployment and other issues  affecting them.
43.6 On culture, it is a true saying that our cultures are our pride and our heritage. Namibia therefore fully supports  the two biennial priorities, namely safeguarding and managing the tangible and intangible heritage, and promoting of the  diversity of cultural expressions and the dialogue of cultures. Namibia commends UNESCO for its role of standard- setting instruments in the field of culture. I am pleased to inform you, Madam President, that Namibia has ratified three  culture conventions and is in the process of ratifying the other two.
43.7 With regard to communication and information, we applaud the priority given to the promotion of freedom of  expression and to universal access to information and knowledge. On media training institutions and professionals,  Namibia wishes to see more efforts in the enhancement of their capacities and competencies.
43.8 On reform and decentralization. Namibia supports the intentions of the broader United Nations system reform  and the agendas of UNESCO. Namibia believes that UNESCO can achieve the objectives of the reforms. Madam  President, Namibia has had, and continues to have fruitful collaboration and cooperation with UNESCO. In conclusion,  the Namibian delegation would like to pay tribute to the outgoing Director-General, Mr Matsuura, for his leadership and  commitment to UNESCO, and for the reform that he has introduced to enhance the efficiency and effectiveness of the  Organization. Mr Director-General, we wish you well in your life after UNESCO. It is with excitement and great
163  expectations that I congratulate the Director-General elect, and wish her well and success in her new responsibilities. I  thank you for your kind attention
44. The President:   Madam Minister, we thank you. We now welcome to the podium His Excellency Mr Dennis Francis, Ambassador  and Permanent Representative of Trinidad and Tobago to UNESCO.
45.1 Mr Francis (Trinidad and Tobago):   Madam President, Mr Chair of the Executive Board, Mr Director-General, honourable ministers and heads of  delegation, colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, over the last 10 years, UNESCO has shown an extraordinary ability to  adapt to meet the challenges of its changing environment. In that time, the mettle of this Organization to effectively  deliver to its constituents the value added they need to facilitate orderly progress in development has been tested. It has  met these challenges with aplomb across all the operational pillars of its mandate, under the steady hand and creative  leadership of Director-General Koïchiro Matsuura. Trinidad and Tobago warmly congratulates the Director-General on  his immensely successful stewardship of this Organization and wishes him continuing success in his future endeavours.  We also thank the outgoing President of the General Conference, Ambassador George Anastassopoulos of Greece, for  his work and contribution to the success of the 34th session. My delegation also congratulates Ambassador Bokova and  offers its full support and cooperation as she assumes the mantle of leadership of UNESCO.
45.2 UNESCO’s work in Trinidad and Tobago since independence in 1962 has supported the Government’s thrust in  laying the foundations for the social and economic development of the country through prioritizing education and  culture’s core areas of social investment in building a free, open and just society that creates opportunity for all  regardless of individual circumstance. This long-standing policy of the government endures to the present in the form of  free education for all our nationals, from primary to tertiary level, as the government lays continued emphasis on  preparing our people to compete in today’s fiercely competitive global economy. Education reform in Trinidad and  Tobago therefore actively promotes higher levels of achievement across a broad spectrum of areas, with heightened  emphasis on technical and vocational training and on the further development and expansion of artistic and cultural  components in the school curriculum. Recognizing the potential contribution of culture to national development, the  government has taken measures to encourage even higher levels of achievement and expression in all genres. In this  regard, the government will soon launch a new state-of-the-art national centre for the performing arts, and work will  shortly begin on the construction of the Trinidad and Tobago entertainment and cultural centre, both facilities accounting  for significant investment by the Exchequer.
45.3 Like all small island developing States (SIDS), Trinidad and Tobago faces the real challenge of climate change  and sustainable development. Whereas the results of our efforts in education and poverty reduction are encouraging,  more sustained investment is required in order to ensure that these gains are not lost. Trinidad and Tobago therefore  welcomes the incorporation by UNESCO of sustainable development issues into its work programmes and encourages  the Secretariat to further strengthen its engagement and cooperation with the small island developing States, with  particular reference to the Mauritius Strategy.
45.4 An issue of major concern has emerged across the region in the form of school violence, which not only  threatens the security of those who populate the school environment but also, moreover, undermines and destabilizes  the learning environment itself. This matter was accorded priority consideration during the first meeting of the Bureau of  the Intergovernmental Regional Committee for the Regional Education Project for Latin America and the Caribbean when  it met in Port of Spain in July. Prudent and creative interventions are urgently required to address this complex problem  and, in this regard, it is important that UNESCO renew its focus on developing strategies of amelioration.
45.5 Although steady progress has been made in achieving the education for all (EFA) goals, challenges  nevertheless remain in the realm of adult illiteracy which, of course, limits those affected from meaningful participation in  the workforce. Within the limits of its practical constraints, the government has taken steps to address this problem  through mounting several intervention programmes. Trinidad and Tobago would welcome UNESCO support in  developing national capacity to cope more effectively with this challenge. We welcome UNESCO’s early childhood care  education initiative with special emphasis on innovation, inclusion and monitoring. In Trinidad and Tobago, increased  attention is being given to institutional strengthening from the early childhood level up to secondary level. Trinidad and  Tobago therefore intends to seek a partnership with UNESCO to further enhance programme delivery and effectiveness  in this particular area. In giving effect to its strategic goal of creating innovative people, the government is actively  pursuing the introduction of science into the curriculum at primary level. We therefore endorse UNESCO’s emphasis on  science as being critical to sustainable development and sustainable livelihoods. This is consistent with our own practice  where, for example, the University of Trinidad and Tobago is currently offering teacher training programmes at degree  level.
45.6 Finally, Madam President, permit me to express Trinidad and Tobago’s delight at the appointment of  Mr Hepburn, his elevation to the office of President of the 35th General Conference. We warmly congratulate him as his  elevation to that office speaks volumes about the commitment of Caribbean people, their capacity for hard work and their  dedication to those causes which they hold dear. UNESCO is for all of us in the Caribbean one such cause, a crusade, if  you will, for individual and community empowerment; because despite our small size and limited resources we have big  ambitions for our societies, for our regions and indeed for this global village we share with other countries and regions.  Mr Hepburn’s Presidency of this Conference is therefore a symbol that small can also be big and resourceful and,  moreover, can play a valuable role in bringing people together under a unified vision of society and humanity as an  enduring foundation for peace and harmony consistent with the mission of UNESCO. I thank you, Madam President.
46. The President:   Thank you, Ambassador, for your remarks. We now hear from His Excellency Mr Bryan Gould, Chairperson of  the New Zealand National Commission for UNESCO.
47.1 Mr Gould (New Zealand):   Tena koutou katoa kua huihui mai nei i tenei ra (Greetings to all who have gathered here today). Madam  President, ladies and gentlemen, in 1946, when UNESCO’s Constitution came into force, New Zealand was the second  country to step forward to sign it. We did so, in the aftermath of a tragic conflict, so that the instinct for peace should take  hold in the minds of new generations; and so, with the other founder members, we signed up for a future built on the life  of the mind and the heart and the spirit, on education, culture, the sciences and the free exchange of information and  ideas. Sixty-three years later, New Zealand continues to support UNESCO’s goals both at home, in managing our own  affairs, and in offering an example internationally, and particularly in the Pacific subregion, where we try to demonstrate,  through our actions, the value of UNESCO’s agenda for progress.
47.2 So we are strong supporters of education for sustainable development and we have an active network of  ASPnet schools committed to UNESCO’s values. In science, we focus on waiora, the Maori word for our sustainable  freshwater resources. The bicultural foundation of our country – Maori and Pākehā – gives us a strong base to take  advantage of the growing cultural diversity that enriches our society; and we continue to enjoy, and encourage others to  emulate our commitment to a free press and the free exchange of ideas. What we seek is to lead by example, to cast  new light on old problems, to think strategically, to change attitudes, to open minds, to know and understand more of  ourselves and of others. We like to think that New Zealand lives UNESCO’s ideals. But we do so at what is another  critical moment in the world’s affairs. The global recession may not be a disaster on quite the same scale as the Second  World War, but it should lead us nevertheless to reaffirm the great value and importance of what UNESCO stands for.  The recession, after all, was the end result of a doctrine that said that all that really mattered was the maximization of  profits for the masters of the global economy. We now know that we cannot entrust human progress to the tender care of  the bottom line. That way lies not just economic crisis but also ecological degradation, social disintegration and  international conflict. Man is not just an economic animal. The lessons of the recession should teach us that the way  forward lies not with ever-faster and less responsible consumption of material things by a small fraction of the world’s  population, but with learning more about and responding better to our relationships with each other and with our planet. A  General Conference is inevitably concerned with budgets, elections, resolutions, organizational structures and processes.  But we must never lose sight of UNESCO’s true purposes, and each of our individual decisions should be judged  according to whether it advances or hinders the achievement of those goals.
47.3 So New Zealand, from our vantage point in the Pacific, the subregion most distant from Paris, covering the  greatest number of countries and the largest geographical area, is a subregion challenged not only by immediate  dangers of which last week’s tsunami was a sad and destructive example, but also by longer-term threats such as  climate change. New Zealand has naturally been a consistent advocate for decentralization. We welcome the report of  the second task force review. But modalities are less important than people. We continue to be concerned at the  damaging delays in recruiting professional staff to the UNESCO Office in Apia. There is no point in changing the  structure if we cannot commit the resources to make it work. Similarly, we are concerned about the performance  indicators proposed in draft document 35 C/5. We are not convinced that these largely quantitative performance  indicators will provide a meaningful assessment of the Organization’s effectiveness. They may be easily measured but  will tell us little about our real achievements. At worst, their adoption could lead to a diversionary goal displacement. We  strongly encourage the Organization to undertake further work on this issue. We continue to believe that working across  sectors and themes is the way UNESCO should operate. The next Medium-Term Strategy should, we believe, be  organized around these intersectoral themes with a Secretariat that mirrors this structure.
47.4 Two years ago, my predecessor, Dame Sylvia Cartwright, delivered her speech to the General Conference while  wearing a Maori cloak or korowai. I am similarly privileged today. The cloak that I wear has been gifted by the National  Commission for UNESCO as a taonga or cultural treasure. It is a work reflecting the great skill of a traditional weaver  who has brought together a range of materials to produce something of significance, value and beauty. It is, we like to  think, a suitable metaphor for the role that UNESCO should and must play in tomorrow’s world. No reira, tena koutou  katoa (In conclusion, greetings to you all).
48. The President:   Tena koutou katoa. Thank you very much, Chairperson, for your remarks. We now welcome to the podium His  Excellency Mr Mu Sin Son, Ambassador of the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea.
49.1 Mr Son (Democratic People’s Republic of Korea):   Madam President, Mr Director-General, distinguished delegates, from the very outset, on behalf of the  delegation of the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea, let me extend warm congratulations to His Excellency  Mr Davidson Hepburn on his election to the presidency of the 35th session of the General Conference. I would also like  to congratulate Mr Koïchiro Matsuura for the excellent undertaking of his two terms as Director-General of UNESCO,  meeting the expectations of Member States over the past 10 years.
49.2 Madam President, UNESCO has undergone a reform coming into the new century, making unprecedented  achievements in its activities. Two Medium-Term Strategies have laid down the correct direction and objectives of this  Organization, and all the major programmes have become more obvious and are closer to the needs of Member States,  with enhanced effectiveness in their implementation. This year, the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea is marking  the 35th anniversary of its membership of UNESCO. During the last 35 years, the relationship and cooperation between  the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea and UNESCO has continued to develop, and field projects, including in
165  education, science and culture, have been extended through Headquarters and regional cluster offices, thus further  improving the quality and efficiency of their implementation. The Constitution of UNESCO makes clear that its mission is  to think and to build peace by promoting collaboration among nations through education, science and culture, and by  creating the intellectual basis for peace and equality by preventing all kinds of wars and disputes.
49.3 My delegation considers that the Draft Programme and Budget for 2010-2011 (35 C/5), which will be adopted at  the current session, focuses on key priority areas in the light of the main direction of the Medium-Term Strategy for 2008-
2015, and is a relevant reflection of programmes designed to attain such overarching objectives as achieving quality  education for all; mobilizing science, knowledge and policy for sustainable development; and fostering cultural diversity  and intercultural dialogue.
49.4 The draft declaration of principles relating to cultural objects displaced in connection with the Second World War  will be adopted at the current session. The return to the country of origin of cultural properties illicitly appropriated in the  past, including in the Second World War, is a political issue and, therefore, we should put an end to the ill-mannered  behaviour of turning our backs on the liquidation of past crimes. It is essential to take international measures for the  return of these objects, thereby promoting world peace and security as well as a rapprochement among nations. My  delegation fully supports, therefore, the adoption of the declaration of principles, which is of such political significance.
49.5 Madam President, under the leadership of the great general Kim Jong Il, the Democratic People’s Republic of  Korea entered a turning phase to build a great, powerful and prosperous nation. It is the lifetime wish of the great leader  of our people, President Kim Il Sung, to build such a nation in which national power is strong, everything is thriving and  the people live happily, envying nothing in the world; and it is the invariable will of the Democratic People’s Republic’s  Government and people to open the gate of a thriving nation by 2012, which marks the centenary of President Kim Il  Sung’s birth.
49.6 Since the concrete guarantee of permanent peace is now in the Korean peninsula, we can channel our main  efforts into building our economy. In the Korean peninsula, relations between the North and the South are entering into a  new phase and a turning point has been reached in achieving a common conception of the Joint Declaration of 15 June
2000 and the Declaration of 4 October 2007, which were milestones in the development of inter-Korean relations and in  national independent reunification in the new century. The Government of the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea  continues to make all possible efforts to materialize national reconciliation and unity, and to open a new era of  independence, reunification and peaceful prosperity under the banner, “by our nation itself”. Independence, peace and  friendship are the consistent foreign policy objectives of the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea. Under this policy,  the Government of the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea will further strengthen and develop friendly and  cooperative relations with UNESCO and all its Member States, and will contribute to the international efforts to achieve  the United Nations Millennium Development Goals. Thank you very much for your attention.
50. The President:   Thank you very much, Minister, and congratulations for keeping good time. We now welcome to the podium His  Excellency Mr Farah Rachad, Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of Djibouti. Welcome, Ambassador.
51.1 M. Rachad (Djibouti) :   Monsieur le Président de la Conférence générale, Monsieur le Directeur général, Excellences, Honorables  délégués, Mesdames et Messieurs, c'est un grand honneur pour moi et pour le pays que je représente de m'exprimer  aujourd'hui devant cette honorable assemblée.
51.2 Permettez-moi de féliciter M. Davidson Hepburn pour sa nomination en tant que Président de la session actuelle  de la Conférence générale, et lui souhaiter courage et succès dans l’accomplissement de sa mission. Je tiens  particulièrement à saluer l'engagement indéfectible de Son Excellence M. Koïchiro Matsuura au service de cette Maison,  au service de cette Organisation. Je le félicite et le remercie de son engagement ainsi que de l'attention et du soutien  dont il a su faire preuve en répondant efficacement à l'attente de nous tous. Je voudrais exprimer mes félicitations les  plus vives et les plus amicales à Mme Irina Bokova pour sa désignation au poste de Directeur général de l'UNESCO, lui  souhaiter bonne route, pleine réussite et l'assurer de notre soutien.
51.3 Mesdames et Messieurs, depuis son accession à l'indépendance, la République de Djibouti s'est résolument  engagée dans l'édification de l'État de droit, le respect des droits de l'homme, la lutte contre la pauvreté, la préservation  de la diversité culturelle et la promotion du dialogue interculturel. Mais à l'heure où l'obscurantisme et l'ignorance ne  cessent de gagner du terrain à l'échelle mondiale et a fortiori dans la Corne de l'Afrique, alors que les conflits armés et  les conséquences de la crise économique et financière continuent à enrayer l'essor des nations les plus défavorisées, la  République de Djibouti se trouve confrontée à un défi majeur. Et, dans ce contexte, la mission de l'UNESCO n’est jamais  apparue aussi importante qu'aujourd'hui. C’est là notre responsabilité commune, à chacun de nous tous, à chacune,  témoins des disparités régionales et de ces injustices : défendre et garantir, tous, par tous les moyens, la culture de paix.
51.4 Notre pays a entamé de profondes réformes institutionnelles et politiques sous la direction du Chef de l'État,  Son Excellence M. Ismaïl Omar Guelleh. Le développement durable et le combat contre l'ignorance passent avant tout  par l'éducation, et pour cela, notre politique de modernisation s'est traduite en premier lieu par la refonte de la politique  éducative en vue d'atteindre les objectifs de l'Éducation pour tous. Par ailleurs, soucieux des valeurs fondamentales que  sont la solidarité et l'égalité, notre gouvernement a fait de la lutte contre les discriminations fondées sur le genre un de  ses chevaux de bataille, œuvrant dans tous les domaines de sa politique pour l'émancipation des femmes.
51.5 Penser le futur de notre nation ne saurait se concevoir sans œuvrer pour une stabilité durable, clé du  développement du continent africain, et en premier lieu de notre région. Aussi, notre pays ne ménage-t-il aucun effort  politique et économique à cette fin, au niveau de la région, de l’IGAD et de l'Afrique, et en particulier lorsqu'il s'agit de
166  trouver une solution au drame somalien. Nous avons créé grâce à l'UNESCO un forum indépendant, le Greater Horn  Horizon, véritable laboratoire d'idées régional, qui réunit une grande majorité des intellectuels de l'intérieur et de la  diaspora. Ce think tank, fort de son premier succès, se tiendra pour la deuxième fois les 8 et 9 novembre prochains à  Djibouti, sur le thème de l'identité, la citoyenneté et l'intégration. Nous avons également créé, et nous en sommes à la
10e édition, un forum des jeunes de la Corne de l'Afrique et de l'Afrique de l'Est, qui réunit tous les jeunes dans un esprit  d'amitié, de paix et d'espoir.
51.6 Mesdames et Messieurs, je voudrais ici réitérer l'engagement de la République de Djibouti à l’égard des valeurs  et des idéaux de l'UNESCO. Pour témoigner de cet engagement, le Président Ismaïl Omar Guelleh viendra lui-même  prononcer un discours le lundi 19 octobre dans cette honorable Maison. Éradiquer l'obscurantisme et l'ignorance qui  gangrènent nos nations est certes un travail de longue haleine, mais nous sommes déterminés à le faire. Mesdames et  Messieurs, la République de Djibouti, qui n'a jamais été membre du Conseil exécutif depuis son adhésion le 31 août
1989, souhaite votre soutien à cet égard, et cette démarche s'inscrit dans la nécessité, la cohérence et la continuité de  nos actions. La présence de notre pays au Conseil exécutif de l'UNESCO nous permettra de clamer haut et fort notre  adhésion aux idées universelles promues par notre Organisation, et notre détermination à poursuivre nos efforts  communs pour le respect de ces valeurs et leur diffusion. Au nom de l'équité et de la solidarité, nous sollicitons l'appui de  tous. Je vous remercie.
52. The President:   Merci, Ambassadeur. We now will have the next speaker, who is Her Excellency Ms Lorena Sol de Pool,  Ambassador and Permanent Delegate of El Salvador to UNESCO.
(53.1) Mme Sol de Pool (El Salvador) (traduit de l’espagnol) :   Nous félicitons M. Davidson Hepburn, des Bahamas, qui représente notre région, pour son élection à la présidence  de la Conférence générale à sa 35e session. El Salvador félicite également Mme Irina Bokova, de Bulgarie, pour son élection  au poste de Directeur général, ainsi que pour son statut de première femme à diriger cette organisation.
(53.2) Notre gouvernement propose des objectifs forts pour lancer un processus de changement qui sorte le pays de sa  crise économique et de son retard social et culturel et assoie les bases du plein épanouissement de son potentiel de  production, dans le respect de l’inclusion sociale et d’une juste distribution des revenus, et qui fasse régner paix et sécurité.  Un triste phénomène, certainement aggravé dans notre région, sévit à l’échelle transnationale : il s’agit du comportement de  bandes violentes de jeunes, qui constituent la pire menace pour la stabilité de nos républiques. Ainsi, consciente du fait qu’en  matière de sciences sociales et humaines, les priorités sectorielles biennales doivent répondre aux défis sociaux essentiels,  El Salvador considère qu’il importe d’accorder la priorité au programme pour la jeunesse en renforçant les projets de  prévention de la violence juvénile, ainsi que l’élaboration et la mise en œuvre, dans la région, de politiques publiques axées  sur nos jeunes, qui représentent 52 % de la population salvadorienne.
(53.3) El Salvador est à la recherche d’une nouvelle politique éducative. Après de multiples réformes et des tentatives  répétées pour surmonter les insuffisances qui sont les nôtres, nous sommes convaincus qu’il est indispensable d’effectuer un  revirement définitif qui réoriente les stratégies afin que nous puissions nous acquitter de notre mandat constitutionnel et venir  à bout des carences éducatives de nos jeunes. Notre société met en opposition le progrès et le bien-être économique d’une  part, et l’augmentation des inégalités, les guerres et le déséquilibre écologique à l’échelle planétaire, d’autre part. Le rôle que  l’éducation aura à jouer est évident, dans la mesure où elle sera appelée à répondre aux nouveaux défis. El Salvador est  engagé dans un processus de changement qui touche essentiellement la politique éducative destinée à nos peuples.  Aujourd’hui plus que jamais, l’idéal d’une formation complète qui permette de construire une citoyenneté transformatrice,  assortie d’une profonde conscience sociale, est l’une de nos sources d’inspiration. Dans l’optique de parvenir à l’Éducation  pour tous tout au long de la vie, le ministère de l’éducation s’est fixé comme objectif de réduire à 3 ou 4 % le taux  d’analphabétisme dans les cinq ans à venir, de lutter contre l’abandon scolaire et d’améliorer l’équité, l’accès – à  l’enseignement secondaire en particulier – et la qualité de l’éducation en centrant l’action, pour ce dernier élément, sur la  formation et la motivation des enseignants.
(53.4) En ce qui concerne l’enseignement supérieur technique, d’importants efforts ont été faits : des carrières techniques  innovantes sont proposées afin de favoriser la formation de professionnels en fonction des besoins de l’aire géographique  concernée en matière de développement économique et social. Nous prévoyons de vastes programmes de bourses  subventionnées par l’État qui permettront d’aider les étudiants issus de familles à faibles revenus. La nouvelle administration  s’emploie à jeter les bases d’importantes améliorations au niveau de l’enseignement supérieur et de la recherche scientifique.  En témoigne la récente conversion du vice-ministère des technologies éducatives du ministère de l’éducation. À ces actions  s’ajoutent la création du premier centre de recherche scientifique d’El Salvador et du Centre national de recherche en  sciences sociales et humaines, ainsi que du Technoparc et du Système national d’innovation.
(53.5) Nous lançons un appel à l’UNESCO pour qu’elle continue d’appuyer les États dans cet effort et d’assurer son rôle de  chef de file stratégique dans le domaine de l’éducation. Nous appuyons pleinement toutes les mesures prises par l’UNESCO  pour restructurer et réorienter les stratégies régionales, par le biais de l’OREALC et de ses instituts, afin de mieux répondre  aux priorités fixées par nos gouvernements aux niveaux régional, sous-régional et national pour une meilleure gestion des  ressources humaines et financières, en vue d’atteindre les objectifs de Dakar et les Objectifs du Millénaire pour le  développement. El Salvador souhaite que tout ceci se concrétise au-delà des simples déclarations de bonnes intentions. Ainsi,  avec la création du nouveau Secrétariat de la culture, nous nous engageons à devenir une référence constructive pour la mise  en place généralisée d’une nouvelle politique culturelle en faveur des Salvadoriens. Nous estimons nécessaire que l’UNESCO  s’assure des ressources suffisantes pour appliquer toutes ses conventions dans le domaine culturel.
(53.6) El Salvador a pris de sérieux engagements, tant au niveau national qu’international, en vue de réformer ses  politiques sociales, en les centrant sur la concertation et la justice sociale, la productivité, l’équité, l’amélioration du salaire net  et les conditions de vie des travailleurs. Nous appuyons les efforts déployés par l’UNESCO pour faire le lien entre les sciences  sociales et l’élaboration et la mise en œuvre de politiques axées sur la réflexion, par le biais de la recherche et de la mise en  place des comités nationaux du Programme MOST. El Salvador s’est engagé sur la voie de la durabilité socio- environnementale, encourageant la protection, la conservation, la récupération et l’exploitation rationnelle de nos ressources  naturelles, biens essentiels à la vie de la société salvadorienne qu’il est nécessaire de redynamiser en tenant compte du  potentiel et des limites des écosystèmes, ainsi qu’en adhérant au Programme MAB de l’UNESCO.
(53.7) Déterminé à appuyer le Programme international pour le développement de la communication, El Salvador, en sa  qualité de Président du Mécanisme régional de suivi d’eLAC 2010, réaffirme son engagement de concrétiser les priorités sur  lesquelles se fonde l’UNESCO en facilitant l’intégration de toutes les parties concernées dans le processus d’édification d’une  société de l’information fondée sur le savoir. Je vous remercie.
(54.1) Le Président (traduit de l’espagnol) :   Je remercie l’Ambassadeur d’El Salvador de sa déclaration. Merci.
168  (Le Président poursuit en anglais)
54.2 And now, I am pleased to give the floor to Mr Fred van Leeuwen, Secretary-General of Education International.  Do I have to remind him that he has three minutes?
55.1 M. van Leeuwen (Internationale de l’éducation) :   Monsieur le Président, Mesdames, Messieurs, l'Internationale de l'éducation est la voix des quelque 30 millions  d'enseignants dans 180 pays qui veulent témoigner ici, devant vous, de leur engagement quotidien, de leur combat  souvent silencieux et ignoré, pour atteindre les objectifs de l'Éducation pour tous, pour délivrer à tous les enfants du  monde une éducation de qualité.
55.2 Le 5 octobre, l'Internationale de l'éducation a célébré dans cette Maison, avec l'UNESCO, l'UNICEF et l’OIT, la  Journée mondiale des enseignants. Ensemble, nous avons réaffirmé la contribution inestimable qu'ils apportent aux  enfants et à la société dans son ensemble, tout particulièrement dans le contexte de la grave crise que nous traversons.  Cette célébration a suivi la réunion du Comité conjoint OIT-UNESCO d'experts sur l'application des Recommandations  concernant le personnel enseignant, réunion à laquelle nous avons présenté un rapport qui constate que les  recommandations sont souvent ignorées par vous, les gouvernements, et par les institutions éducatives. Ce rapport met  en exergue la grave pénurie mondiale d'enseignants confirmée par la dernière note de l'Institut de statistique, qui estime  que d'ici à 2015, ce sont des millions d'enseignants qui devront être recrutés, tout particulièrement en Afrique  subsaharienne. Cette pénurie s'accompagne d'une crise de la précarisation de la profession enseignante, avec le  recrutement de plus en plus fréquent de personnels peu ou pas qualifiés, mal rémunérés, et dont les droits élémentaires  sont le plus souvent bafoués.
55.3 Il ne suffit pas de célébrer les enseignants le 5 octobre. L'UNESCO, les gouvernements et tous les acteurs de  l'éducation doivent agir dans la durée. Monsieur le Président, seuls la volonté politique et le courage permettront à  l'UNESCO et à ses États membres de faire les choix difficiles qui s'imposent. Les investissements dans le secteur de  l'éducation doivent être protégés et rester la priorité absolue des gouvernements et des donateurs. Nous espérons que  le Programmé et budget que vous adopterez sera le reflet de ces choix et priorités. Vous ne pouvez pas prendre, devant  l'histoire, le risque d'hypothéquer le futur et de faire payer le prix de la crise aux générations futures.
55.4 Pour conclure, nous remercions le Directeur général pour son engagement en faveur de l'éducation et nous  sommes prêts à continuer à coopérer avec la nouvelle Directrice générale, et avec tous ceux qui partagent nos principes,  nos idéaux et nos valeurs. Monsieur le Président, ne sacrifions pas l'éducation, les enseignants et les jeunes sur l'autel  de la crise. Je vous remercie.
56. Le Président :   Merci beaucoup, Monsieur, pour votre déclaration.  Presentation of the conclusions of the Sixth UNESCO Youth Forum  Présentation des conclusions du sixième Forum des jeunes de l'UNESCO  Presentación de las conclusiones del sexto Foro de la Juventud de la UNESCO  Представление выводов шестого Молодежного форума ЮНЕСКО  אאא 介绍“第六次教科文组织青年论坛”的结果
57. The President:   Dear colleagues, we will now have the pleasure of listening to the youth representatives, Ms Sara Mallawi from  the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia and Mr Justin Ordoyo from the Philippines, who will present to us the conclusions of the  Sixth UNESCO Youth Forum held at UNESCO Headquarters from 1 to 3 October of this year. As you all know, the  UNESCO Youth Forum is an evolving platform for dialogue and action, held once every two years as an integral part of  the General Conference. During these two days, 128 youth delegates representing 89 UNESCO Member States and
84 independent observers from 68 organizations active in the field of youth had the chance to come together to  exchange opinions and discuss critical issues relating to one main theme, “Investing out of the crisis: Towards a  partnership between UNESCO and youth organizations”; and a cross-cutting theme, “Youth participation: UNESCO  Youth Forum, a long-term approach”. It is a pleasure to welcome you here and we give you now the floor.
58.1 Mr Ordoyo (Philippines):   Mr President of the General Conference, Mr Chair of the Executive Board, Mr Director-General, Excellencies,  ladies and gentlemen, as I sat through the plenary sessions of the recently concluded session of the Executive Board, I  dreamt of one day being able to intervene on behalf of my country in this renowned institution. Today, my fellow delegate  Sara and myself have the great honour of doing so not only on behalf of our country’s youth, but on that of the delegates  of the Youth Forum and the world. This Sixth Youth Forum, an integral part of the General Conference, was marked by  significant innovations, among which was the creation of an online discussion website that allowed us delegates to  exchange our views on youth issues prior to the Forum itself. After having spent three days with 128 youth delegates  representing 89 Member States, Sara and I can attest to the high level of professionalism and spirit of consensus that  our fellow delegates fostered through constructive debate and fruitful dialogue, ultimately resulting in a concise yet  powerful final report. On a lighter note, a great sense of family and camaraderie also prevailed as concretely evidenced  in the spontaneous and united singing that transpired during the bateau-mouche ride along the Seine River.
58.2 Although youth comprise nearly a fifth of the world’s population, our voice risks being drowned in a cacophony of  unprecedented and intertwined crises. As you strive to find solutions to the environmental and financial predicaments  that beleaguer us all, we urge you not to forget the silent crisis in youth education which precedes all other crises.  (The speaker continues in French)
58.3 Excellences, Mesdames, Messieurs, il faut le reconnaître, rarement l’avenir de la jeunesse n’avait été aussi  compromis qu’aujourd’hui, où nous sommes tous confrontés aux menaces de crises financières, climatiques,  d’épidémies, de la violence, et j’en passe. Dans ce monde instable, les jeunes sont confrontés à des défis en apparence  insurmontables. De par le monde, l’on peut entendre un cri, celui de la détresse de ces jeunes abandonnés en  « périphérie ». Aucun pays n’est épargné, de par le monde, par ces multiples crises, pas même les pays dits  « développés ». Mais un second cri s’élève, celui de l’espérance. Si nous sommes tous ici réunis aujourd’hui, à  l’UNESCO, ce n’est ni pour nous plaindre ni pour gémir, mais pour discuter, échanger, décider et construire ensemble.  Nous nous sommes rassemblés pour envoyer au monde un message clair : la jeunesse veut se prendre en main, être  responsable, renoncer à « être une jeunesse molle, mais une jeunesse ardente et enflammée ».  (L’orateur poursuit en anglais)
58.4 In order to face today’s challenges, we have the following proposals. First, In order to reach the education for all  (EFA) objectives, public responsibility and investment are an absolute necessity in all countries. In addition, we strongly  demand that donor countries follow up on commitments of development aid to education at a level that will ensure the  achievement of the EFA objectives by 2015. Second, to improve the link between education and the changing labour  market, education must be accompanied by a process of early participation in the labour market. One mechanism for  achieving this is two-way intergenerational partnerships, such as mentorships and internships, which enable youth to  gain access to the market and to acquire relevant skills at an early stage. In parallel, technical and vocational education  and training (TVET) needs to become a formalized part of the education system and a viable alternative to university  studies. Third, we the youth call upon UNESCO National Commissions to coordinate cooperation and dialogue between  youth organizations, civil society groups and the private sector to promote and enhance youth and social  entrepreneurship and business creation programmes, which will help to alleviate unemployment among youth by 2011.  Fourth, we call on Member States to raise awareness on the importance of the green economy among youth, and to  work with the research community to foster youth scientific research.  א(א٥٩,١ א ):א א  א א א א.א א .א א٥٩,٢ ، א א א،،א א א،א א א ، א.א א.א א ، א א אא א א א א א א א.א ، א אא א .א א، א א א א ، א א א א א،א/אא. א א אא א א א א،.א א א א.א א א א א א:א"א א א".א א א :א
(59.1) Mme Mallawi (Royaume d’Arabie Saoudite) (traduit de l’arabe):   Merci beaucoup pour cette excellente présentation. Ce sont là des recommandations de la plus grande importance,  en effet. Nous espérons que tous les États membres les adopteront.
(59.2) Au Nom de Dieu Clément et Miséricordieux. Mesdames et Messieurs, le développement durable est un objectif  central pour tous nos pays et nos gouvernements sans exception. Nous recherchons tous des méthodes et des solutions  efficaces pour que le monde devienne un lieu où il fasse bon vivre. Mais il arrive souvent que la solution soit juste devant nous,  sans que nous la voyions. La jeunesse du monde, dans sa majorité, peut créer, plus que jamais auparavant. Il lui est possible  de coopérer avec des experts de tous les domaines pour trouver des solutions et des propositions susceptibles de contribuer  à l’éradication de la plupart des problèmes auxquels leur société est confrontée, et de parvenir ainsi à un développement  durable dans la plupart des aspects de la vie. La jeunesse est le capital le plus important d’une société, quelle qu’elle soit.  C’est la raison pour laquelle on doit leur donner la possibilité de participer aux décisions En outre, ils doivent avoir des  possibilités diverses de se former aux compétences de la vie dès le plus jeune âge. Nous devons les inciter à aller de l’avant  en leur faisant confiance, pour qu’ils réfléchissent, travaillent, produisent et enrichissent leur société. Le cinq octobre, Madame  Michaëlle Jean, Gouverneur général du Canada, insistait dans l’allocution qu’elle a prononcée à l’UNESCO, sur la nécessité  de développer des diverses capacités des jeunes. Elle a également rappelé qu’il faut les associer à l’édification de ce monde.  Or c’est précisément le second axe du Sixième Forum de la jeunesse de l’UNESCO, sur le thème “Participation des jeunes :  vers une stratégie à long terme“. Le Forum a abouti aux recommandations suivantes :  (L’oratrice poursuit en anglais)
59.3 Ladies and gentlemen, we, the participants of the Sixth UNESCO Youth Forum, strongly call on every Member  State to include youth  delegates within their official delegation to the UNESCO General Conference by 2011, based on a  common set of criteria. We call on all UNESCO National Commissions to create permanent youth desks. We urge
170  National Commissions to invest in preparation, including both the follow-up and monitoring of previous recommendations,  and to encourage youth regional meetings for this purpose. We urge Member States to ensure greater international  representation of delegates at the Youth Forum and to secure funding for least developed countries that may not be able  to send youth delegates to the Forum. We encourage Member States to cooperate closely with youth organizations and  their partners, to establish – or to develop existing – representative and inclusive youth councils at national level in order  to enhance communication between us and our governments. We welcome the initiatives of National Commissions  which disseminate good practices regarding our involvement in their work. Tools such as online platforms and databases  must be maintained and further developed for multidisciplinary knowledge-building and management of youth issues,  and to increase youth participation. Member States should invest in non-formal education in order to reach all youth,  particularly those who are not in school, and should also hold fora and events related to cultural diversity in order to  multiply the opportunities for young people to participate in their communities. We ask UNESCO and its Member States  to cooperate with NGOs and media institutions to promote positive messages, particularly through online social  networking tools (OSNs) where youth are very active, on issues such as non-violence; to disseminate good practices  among youth; and to ensure that the Bonn Declaration on Education for Sustainable Development is implemented. We  request the establishment of an evaluation mechanism of the concrete actions and support of the National Commissions  in implementing the recommendations of the Forum. Last but not the least, we request feedback from the UNESCO  General Conference on the Final Report.
59.4 We are here today to prove that we care about change. We care about the development of our communities and  the world. We also wish to be an integral part of this development using our energy, creativity, vision and hard work. We  believe that cultural diversity is enrichment, and that it is essential for our development and coexistence. Intercultural  dialogue is thus at the heart of the youth agenda and ICT infrastructures, especially in the least developed countries  where it must be further improved. We are confident that our opinions and ideas can make a difference, but first they  must be heard. They must be heard. Thus we urge you to give us opportunities, resources and support in order for us to  act. We call upon all Member States to consider our recommendations with a sense of urgency, and to include them in  their draft resolutions to the General Conference.
60. Mr Ordoyo (Philippines):   Although the future may seem bleak for many young people as we enter an era of consequences, we are agents  of positive change, and through this Forum we aim to bring hope back home with us to make a lasting difference in our  countries and communities. All we ask is that you have faith in us – the future you. I would like to close by saying that if  you feel you are too insignificant and, in this case, too young to cause the world to take action and move, imagine  yourself sleeping in a room with a mosquito. With these final words, I urge the world’s youth, as well as those of you in  this room who have not lost your youthfulness in mind and heart, to bring out the mosquito that lies within, and to sting  this world back to the way it ought to be. The youth of the world thank you for your kind attention.
61. The President:   I would like to say that based on the information you have just heard, you will all have to agree that the future of  the world is in good hands, and I trust that delegations will take into consideration the recommendations that have been  made and do what is necessary; because you cannot allow these words that have been said to go nowhere. So you have  some responsibility, I think, to be able to do some of the things that were recommended to you today. Thank you again. I  must say that your report has given us the possibility to share and take into account a fresh view of UNESCO. So be  assured that we will do everything we can in order to help to make this a reality. Thank you once again. I think the  representative of Norway has asked for the floor.
62. Mr Briseid (Norway):   Thank you, Mr President, for giving me the floor. The older I get, the more impressed I am with our young people,  with their enthusiasm, their commitment, their unrelenting interest in making this planet a better place to live for everyone,  as we have just heard from our two young friends. Norway therefore attaches great importance to the Youth Forum. We  ought to make much more of it than what we actually do. The points of view expressed in the outcome communiqué  should become an integral part of our discussions and resolutions in the General Conference. Norway therefore believes  that the outcome document might be assigned as a separate agenda point at the next session of the General  Conference. We should also ensure that the Secretariat comes up with a report at that session on how the proposals in  the outcome document have been followed up. Norway would like to come back to these points in connection with  resolutions at this General Conference. Thank you, Mr President.
63.1 The President:   Thank you very much, Sir, for your remarks.
63.2 Ladies and gentlemen, we have now come to the end of our debate for this morning and I trust that you will be  here again this afternoon at 3 o’clock sharp so that we can begin our afternoon debate. This meeting is adjourned.  Thank you.  The meeting rose at 1.25 p.m.  La séance est levée à 13 h 25  Se levanta la sesión a las 13.25  Заседание закрывается в 13.25  א א١,٢٥א   会议于 13 时 25 分结束