398  Shaping UNESCO for the next decade as an effective multilateral actor, including in pursuit of international  goals and United Nations reform  Préparer l'UNESCO pour la prochaine décennie et en faire un acteur multilatéral efficace, y compris dans la  poursuite des objectifs internationaux et de la réforme du système des Nations Unies  Preparar a la UNESCO para el próximo decenio, como actor multilateral eficaz, entre otras cosas con miras a los  objetivos internacionales y la reforma del sistema de las Naciones Unidas  Подготовка ЮНЕСКО к следующему десятилетию в качестве эффективного многостороннего партнера, в  том числе в деле достижения международных целей и осуществления реформы Организации  Объединенных Наций  א א א א אא א א א ، א א א א 在下一个十年中将教科文组织塑造成一个在追求国际目标和联合国改革等方面均为有效的多边行动机构  Moderator: Mr Ghassan Salamé (Lebanon)
1. The President:   Dear colleagues, Your Excellencies, ladies and gentlemen, allow me to open the afternoon meeting of today’s  plenary ministerial forum in the function of the Vice-President of the General Conference. Following the scheme we had  this morning, I will give the floor to the moderator of the afternoon meeting, Mr Ghassan Salamé.
2. Le Modérateur :    Merci Madame la Présidente. Faire de l’UNESCO un acteur multilatéral efficace, c’est ce qui va nous occuper  cet après-midi. Trois orateurs distingués vont lancer le débat dans les minutes qui viennent et, ce qui ne gâte rien, il  s’agit de trois dames. Nous allons tout de suite inviter à prendre la parole Mme Tatjana Koķe, Ministre de l’enseignement  supérieur et des sciences de Lettonie, et éminente philologue et spécialiste de l’éducation. Madame Koķe.
3.1 Ms Koķe (Minister of Higher Education and Science, Latvia):   Good afternoon. Honourable Chairperson, Mr Salamé, Excellencies, distinguished guests, ladies and gentlemen,  it is a great pleasure and honour to address you here today at the Plenary Ministerial Forum and to have an opportunity  to share views about UNESCO’s complex role in the contemporary international environment. As the Minister of  Education and Science in my national capacity, I wish to extend my sincere gratitude to all of you present today for  devoting your time, energy and expertise to the Plenary Ministerial Forum.
3.2 Ladies and gentlemen, more than 60 years ago, the United States President Franklin Roosevelt, in his inaugural  address, said, and I quote: “We have learned that we cannot live alone at peace; that our own well-being is dependent  on the well-being of other nations far away.” More than half of a century has passed since then and interdependence has  become an even greater value today, even greater than independence, I should say. As new developments and threats  on national agendas have proven to be interconnected, fluid and not to be solved at a national level alone, we should, or  even must, perform the change from “I” to “we”. The world needs stronger partnerships and a new approach to meet  common challenges, and one of the solutions, at the multilateral level, is development and strengthening of so-called  “smart power”.
3.3 Within UNESCO, ladies and gentlemen, I see a complex and crucial role as a sustainable concept organization  encouraging a new, smart, multilateral approach to international relations, where hard and soft powers are skilfully  combined. Despite the predominance of hard power in international relations, there are limits to its effectiveness. In turn,  many of the traditional instruments of soft power, such as public engagement and diplomacy, have been neglected and  have fallen into disrepair. There is a need for a clear strategic vision on how to integrate hard and soft power into smart  power, a vision underpinned by a reconsidered, expanded and strengthened role for alliances, partnerships and  institutions. UNESCO, with its legitimacy, values, expertise and engagement in different regions of the world, has a great  potential for being an effective and credible multilateral partner in this new approach to global politics. Participation,  values and experience – these are, to my mind, three key elements delineating UNESCO’s expanded future role. Firstly,  the universality of UNESCO’s membership gives legitimacy to the decision-making power of the Organization. As we all  know, UNESCO represents 193 Member States, giving them the unique opportunity to work together for the benefit of  humanity. Secondly, UNESCO keeps a vital set of beliefs, values and hopes common to all humankind. It is of the utmost  importance to remember this, especially in moments when the global crisis puts independence to a major test. We need  concrete and smart, outward-looking solutions to overcome the crisis. Economic instruments are indeed crucial, but they  should be seen and considered in a much wider context. Latvia firmly believes in the universal ideals of UNESCO and its  bodies and is ready, within the limited means at its disposal, to contribute to their realization. The set of beliefs, values  and hopes that characterizes the work of UNESCO should have very strong support in the daily work of our Organization.  The decentralization process at UNESCO is one of the excellent landmarks pointing out prospective working directions.  Regional and national offices are to be made much stronger than ever before, and National Commissions for UNESCO  should be their efficient cooperation partners to achieve our common goals. The United Nations Development Assistance  Framework (UNDAF) provides us with several explicit examples of how relevant international organizations like  UNESCO can be at the national level. However, I do believe that through more extensive knowledge-sharing among  experts from Member States and UNDAF, the recipient countries can be strengthened. I hope that this kind of  cooperation model might generate new common values and also promote learning from each other. In the morning  session, Mr Matsuura mentioned the strategies of UNESCO’s National Commissions; to my mind this would be really a  good example of that. The third element delineating UNESCO’s expanded future role is knowledge and expertise.  UNESCO must mobilize knowledge and serve as a laboratory of ideas for its Member States. Almost 20 years ago,    PMF 2
399  UNESCO initiated the work of an international commission whose work culminated in the report Learning: The Treasure  Within. This report was widely recognized as an outstanding result of international cooperation and, I should say, still  influences public opinion about education in the twenty-first century. I think it is crucial for UNESCO, as a political  organization with educational goals, to reinforce its leadership in the provision of international expertise; it is time to  establish a new international commission of experts and researchers that would give an insight into the values of the  twenty-first century and, moreover, the ways those values have been changing. It is in the present world, where a  struggle for excellence is a daily reality and necessity, that the need for common standards and their regular monitoring  has been increasing substantially. The EFA Global Monitoring Report and World Water Development Report are  significant examples, serving as sources of information for setting up national, regional and international policy agendas.  It is crucial to further elaborate such authoritative comparative studies in all of the priority fields of UNESCO, as they  contribute considerably to knowledge, on the one hand, and provide policy advice on the other. It is evident that, in the  process, the role of UNESCO’s institutes and its excellent centres can be more emphasized. Moreover, UNESCO can  overcome the usual borders and boundaries of knowledge-sharing and mobilize various research and non-governmental  communities in favour of common activities to gain even more considerable working results, as shown within the  framework of the Community of Practice programme, which operates under the auspices of the International Bureau of  Education in Geneva.
3.4 UNESCO can and should use its international leadership role to seek new ways of responding to the challenges  that humanity will be facing in the next decade. Ladies and gentlemen, as we collectively commit to avoiding a clash of  civilizations between different societies of the world, so we must seek to reduce the growing discrepancies between the  rich and the poor. The Millennium Development Goals (MDGs), education for all (EFA) and other global programmes and  actions can only be achieved by wide-ranging and smart, interdependent action, where all the partners share the same  goals and values and tackle the problems simultaneously at every level, be it in terms of financial support, peace-keeping  and peace-building, development initiatives or educational programmes. That is why it is important to educate the public  everywhere in the world through forums like this, with initiatives that will emerge from its proceedings and develop ideas  and mechanisms on an international scale. Education, science, culture, communication and information are impressive  tools for this highly demanding work. However, the idea of an intersectoral approach that arose several years ago is still  not at the heart of UNESCO. We cannot speak of education without culture or culture without science or sustainability  without humanity. Education for sustainable development (ESD), EFA, the creative industries, the world heritage, water  supplies, biodiversity or freedom of expression are not the only things that require an intersectoral approach. It is more  than ever evident that a new model of work should be found for UNESCO, where the priority areas each complement  one another and the whole Organization acts as a team striving for the common goal of finding ways of learning to live  together in a sustainable world. Let us remember that we do not inherit the earth from our parents; we borrow it from our  children.
3.5 Last, but certainly not least, is the issue of visibility, which is crucial for an international organization like  UNESCO. It is certain that nothing other than high-quality work can be the best visibility facilitator. Although successful  work has been taking place for many decades, UNESCO has managed to raise its visibility worldwide mainly by means  of particularly successful flagship projects, the quality work of various networks like UNITWIN-UNESCO and the  Associated Schools Network Project, its category 2 institutes or particular activities and campaigns. I think it highlights  drawbacks in the cooperation strategy with National Commissions for UNESCO, and calls for UNESCO and its Member  States to strengthen the work of the National Commissions, which are the direct channels of information at the national  level.
3.6 Mr Chairperson, Excellencies, ladies and gentlemen, international organizations are neither almighty nor  powerless. They are as influential as their Member States allow them to be. In this regard, UNESCO’s Constitution opens  with the words, “The Governments of the States Parties to this Constitution on behalf of their peoples...”. Let us today live  up to this responsibility. May we pull together and strive to serve and strengthen the Organization of which we are so  proud to be part. Let us hope that our efforts will be coordinated, constructive and smart, so that we may make the  twenty-first century one of security, peace and continued development. Thank you very much for your attention.  (Applause)
4.1 The Moderator:   Many, many thanks to Her Excellency Ms Koķe for her stimulating thoughts. I would like to emphasize at least  three of these thoughts for our discussion later on in the afternoon. The first is her insistence on cooperation models  among agencies for which we need to be more creative; the second her insistence on the necessity for UNESCO to  operate more in an intersectoral spirit; and the third, her insistence – and I do believe that all of us would tend to agree  with that – that there is no visibility for an agency such as UNESCO without hard work, and for that we need to be more  hard-working.
4.2 Our next speaker is Ms Sharon Dijksma, Secretary of State for Education, Culture and Science of the  Netherlands, and a very active parliamentarian. Ms Dijksma, the floor is yours.
5.1 Ms Dijksma (Secretary of State for Education, Culture and Science, Netherlands):   Mr Chairperson, Your Excellencies, ladies and gentlemen, I am honoured to be one of the keynote speakers at  this forum, and I thank you very much for inviting me here today. All of us, as ministers of education, culture and science,  are concerned with building and improving our education systems, cultural heritage and scientific community. I hardly  need to explain to the assembled audience how important these issues are, or how important international cooperation is.  We are here together today to discuss UNESCO’s role in this global collaborative effort. First, though, I would like to  share with you a personal note on education and UNESCO. A prime example of UNESCO’s efforts to preserve the
400  cultural heritage is the Memory of the World Register. Very recently, Anne Frank’s diary was added to the register. When  I read her diary, I was touched by her enormous thirst for knowledge. This thirst for knowledge is present on almost every  page she wrote. During her years in hiding, she could not attend school. Instead, she diligently completed assignments  from the textbooks she had with her at home. This drive to improve oneself, even under the most difficult circumstances,  is a universal human desire, a wish shared by everyone. Ladies and gentlemen, since so much work still remains to be  done, and since we are discussing children and the opportunities we may provide them with, it is essential that we take a  critical look at UNESCO. Does it still have the right focus? Are we working as efficiently as we possibly can? We trust  that this General Conference will decide on a comprehensive and forward-looking evaluation of UNESCO’s work. The  Netherlands is prepared to contribute financially to this evaluation and urges other Member States to do the same.  However, the majority of the financing for the evaluation should come out of UNESCO’s regular budget. But an  evaluation should not prevent us from doing our own thinking about the future of this Organization. I do very much  welcome this forum discussion as an opportunity to share my thoughts with you about the future of UNESCO. The point I  wish to make is very simple: enormous challenges confront us and for UNESCO to adequately address them, we will  have to fundamentally change how we work. So I am concentrating here on two points: what UNESCO should do, and  how we can best organize ourselves to accomplish this goal? Let us start with the first question: What UNESCO should  do?
5.2 In the years since UNESCO was founded, humankind has enjoyed a period of exceptional growth and prosperity.  The world population has more than doubled, but at the same time economic production has increased eightfold. For the  first time in history it is not just the lucky few who are living in relative wealth. This is now something that hundreds of  millions of people can enjoy or aspire to. The spectacular growth of science and technology and the expanding scope of  education are two of the many factors that have made it possible. However, not everyone benefits from these  developments. Millions and millions of children cannot go to school, and the human impact on the natural world has led  to unforeseen results such as climate change and difficult ethical dilemmas. Most of these challenges will primarily have  to be dealt with at a national level, but many require international cooperation. Important objectives of international  cooperation are outlined in the Millennium Development Goals (MDGs). One of these goals is particularly relevant for  UNESCO: all boys and girls should have a proper education. I firmly believe that in the coming years we have to devote  our every effort to ensuring that this MDG is achieved. Other examples of challenges for UNESCO are: encouraging  scientific research to address global challenges; making the results of the research available to all parties that need them;  and protecting the natural and cultural heritage and diversity. These challenges force us to take a critical look at our  Organization.
5.3 So what should UNESCO do? What should UNESCO’s focus be? Let me give you five general suggestions that  might guide us. The first is to respect the principle of subsidiarity. The principle of subsidiarity says that matters should  be handled at the lowest possible level. A worldwide organization should therefore perform only those tasks which  cannot be performed effectively at a regional, national or local level.  The second suggestion is let civil society handle the  things it can do better. International cooperation among scientists is often best served when governments do not interfere.  The same is often true for artists and museums. So let us not pretend that UNESCO can do better; let us leave them  alone as much as possible to do what they do best. The third suggestion: ensure that UNESCO’s work complements  other international organizations’ efforts. UNESCO’s mandate overlaps with that of many other international  organizations. UNESCO should not duplicate their work but tailor its activities to complement theirs. Fourth: set priorities.  All too often we, as Member States, ask the Secretariat to add another item to its long list of activities without providing  the means to carry out the work. Small wonder, then, that in such cases the results are far from world-class. UNESCO  should really confine its efforts to a limited number of tasks that it can do well. It is the results that count and not the  number of activities. The fifth suggestion that might help us give more focus to UNESCO’s tasks is to build up our  strengths. But what are our strengths? Why is it that certain UNESCO activities are successful, and others are not? Why  is the Intergovernmental Oceanographic Commission (IOC) so highly esteemed in the outside world, while UNESCO’s  activities in the field of philosophy are almost invisible? Could it be that IOC is successful because most Member States  believe intergovernmental cooperation in the oceanographic field is a necessity, whereas few countries are interested in  intergovernmental cooperation in the field of philosophy? This point – the crucial role of Member States in ensuring the  success of UNESCO – brings me to my second and last question: How should UNESCO organize itself to do what we  want it to do? Can UNESCO effectively do what it needs to accomplish the way it is currently organized? My answer is  no. That is not to say that what UNESCO does is useless. On the contrary, I would like to emphasize that much of  UNESCO’s work is essential and of high calibre. But with regard to the main issues on our agenda, we are still falling  short of the mark. One reason for this is the lack of priorities, as I mentioned before. By doing too many things at the  same time, the Organization is stretched so thin that the impact of its activities is diminished. But there is a more  fundamental reason why UNESCO will be unable adequately to address its real agenda if it continues to operate the way  it does now. That reason is a reversal of the relationship between the Secretariat and the Member States. We see  UNESCO as an organization for cooperation among Member States supported by the Secretariat. However, in practice  UNESCO has become another name for the Secretariat. Delegations sometimes seem to have become the external  relations of UNESCO. The Secretariat regularly informs them about the Organization’s activities, and the delegations  limit themselves to paying for them. In other words, UNESCO has become an international secretariat supported by  Member States, instead of an organization of Member States supported by a secretariat. Does that matter? Yes, it does.  It matters greatly, because dealing effectively with the great challenges of today and tomorrow is far beyond the  capabilities of the Secretariat alone. Take, for example, the projected lack of primary school teachers. It is predicted that  in 2015 we will need more than 10 million new teachers to reach the stated goal of universal primary education. Can the  Secretariat solve that problem? No, of course not. The Secretariat organizes meetings and writes reports on the subject,  whereas the only ones that have the capacity and capability to really address this problem are the governments working  in close cooperation with other involved parties.     PMF 2
5.4 How can we change this and shift the responsibility for UNESCO back to where it belongs: with the Member  States? Allow me to make a few proposals that, at first glance, might seem radical but which, in fact, are customary at  several other United Nations organizations. My first proposal is that the General Conference should concentrate on the  plans of the Member States for international cooperation. Why not change the General Conference into a forum to  discuss these plans and then use that occasion to discuss our experiences and ideas? In the debate to follow, I would  like to hear very much your ideas about that. We could, for example, use the plenary and the existing five sectoral  commissions primarily to discuss our cooperation in the fields of education, science, culture and communication, and the  Administrative Commission to discuss the budget and management of the Secretariat, following the example of the Fifth  Committee of the United Nations General Assembly. My second proposal concerns integrating world conferences into  UNESCO’s work. Here is one clear illustration of the General Conference’s skewed priorities: the results of recently held  major conferences on education, such as the World Conference on Higher Education, are only on the agenda for  informational purposes and informal discussion. However, I think that we, the Member States, should be deciding the  purpose of, preparation for and results of these conferences instead of just hearing about them, which is usually the case.  Thirdly, I think the principal task of the Secretariat is to support the work of Member States. I also have to say here that I  highly appreciate the work of the Secretariat, and I do recognize the important proactive role that it plays in stimulating  Member States to take action. So it is the Member States who should do something right now; this is an  intergovernmental organization, and Member States should not shy away from sitting in the driving seat. If we leave it to  the same staff members who write the reports and also draft the reactions to those reports, we create a bureaucratic  merry-go-round with Member States as almost passive observers. It is another sign that the relationship between  Member States and Secretariat might have to be readjusted. Furthermore, I believe better use should be made of the  presence of the Permanent Delegates. That is my fourth proposal. Most Permanent Delegates to UNESCO have only  one chance every two years to exercise their formal role as owners. That situation could easily be remedied by regularly  convening the General Conference at the level of Permanent Delegates, for example once a month, to discuss one or  more specific matters. The last proposal I would like to suggest is that members of parliament and representatives from  NGOs and youth groups should be more closely involved in our work. It would be preferable, again looking at the  example of the United Nations General Assembly, to involve them in our work during – and not before – the General  Conference convenes.
5.5 So to conclude, ladies and gentlemen, let me say that UNESCO’s future, and the way we deal with challenges  today and in the coming years, are our responsibility. It is up to us to tackle difficult issues such as illiteracy,  environmental problems and poverty. For us to succeed, we need to focus and restructure UNESCO in a way that will  allow us to address these issues. If we really want to succeed, we, as Member States, should not leave it only to the  Secretariat but take the work upon our own shoulders, of course with the help and the support of the Secretariat. I hope  my speech has provided some provocative food for thought. I would be honoured and pleased if we could further discuss  the ideas I have put forth, not only today but also in the near future. Thank you very much.  (Applause)
6.1 The Moderator:   Thank you very much, Madam Secretary, for that stimulating recipe for what is to be done and how. Of course  there is food for thought in what you said, in the many proposals you put on the table, – first on the “what” and second on  the “how" – starting with your invitation for an evaluation of the Organization’s activity and the readiness of your  Government to contribute to the extrabudgetary financing of such operations, and also on the other items in your recipe  for how UNESCO should look 10 years from now. Thank you again. Our last keynote speaker is not here yet, and  therefore I think we can start the discussion, if you do not mind. I think we have already heard two excellent  presentations in which you will find a lot of food for thought.  (The Moderator continues in French)
6.2 Si je peux me permettre, je dirais de surcroît, que nous avons véritablement une réflexion à faire sur l’UNESCO  en tant qu’acteur multilatéral efficace. Et pour être acteur, il me semble que l’UNESCO doit être leader dans chacun des  cinq domaines qui sont de sa compétence. Un leader, ce n’est pas un analyste, un leader, ce n’est pas un observateur,  un leader, ce n’est pas un commentateur. Un leader, c’est un producteur d’idées, qui a de plus une capacité à  transformer ses idées en programmes, et ensuite à convaincre les États membres de les adopter, à les mettre ou à les  faire mettre en œuvre, et enfin, à garder un esprit critique par rapport à son action. Cela, c’est un acteur. Un vrai acteur  international.
6.3 Un acteur multilatéral est un acteur qui reconnaît que le multilatéralisme est aujourd’hui en crise dans le monde,  l’UNESCO n’étant pas la seule organisation concernée, et qui donc reconnaît cette crise, mais y trouve aussi une  opportunité de renouveau et une opportunité d’agir pour de nouvelles institutions, et peut-être de créer de nouveaux  programmes. Il faut rechercher la volonté d’agir au niveau multilatéral, et il faut aussi penser aux institutions qui  aujourd’hui peuvent le mieux incarner une telle volonté d’agir ensemble.
6.4 Enfin, un acteur multilatéral doit être efficace et pour ce faire, il doit avoir une attitude déterminée, notamment  face aux réticences à exécuter les programmes qu’il met en place. Il doit aussi, pour être efficace, avoir une capacité  d’analyse permanente de l’efficacité et de l’efficience de ses programmes. Il doit enfin disposer d’un budget, un budget  dont l’essentiel est consacré aux programmes et non à lui-même.
6.5 Voilà ce qui, à mes yeux, fait de l’UNESCO un acteur multilatéral efficace. Mais il se peut que je me trompe, et  c’est à vous de me faire savoir si, véritablement, c’est dans ce sens qu’il faut aller, comme nos deux orateurs nous l’ont  dit. La discussion est maintenant ouverte, et le premier à s’exprimer sera Son Excellence M. Bijarani, Ministre de  l’éducation du Pakistan. Comme mon collègue et ami l’a fait ce matin, je vais devoir être très strict avec la règle des trois
402  minutes ; je vous prie donc de m’excuser à l’avance si je dois jouer au policier, ce qui n’est pas le meilleur rôle que j’ai  rêvé de jouer dans ma vie, mais il faut bien le faire.   (Le Modérateur poursuit en anglais)
6.6 His Excellency, the Minister of Education of Pakistan.
7.1 Mr Bijarani (Pakistan):   Thank you very much. We are presently witnessing waves of multilateralism across the Atlantic Ocean and  renewed confidence in the United Nations system. Back in 2007, Pakistan volunteered to become a “One United  Nations” pilot country, which has meant supporting and dynamically partaking in the United Nations own reform process  to achieve greater alignment, harmonization, accountability and strategic development for a measurable impact. We  would like to share our experiences in this regard with fellow Member States of UNESCO in the due course of time.  UNESCO has very actively participated in this programme from the beginning, and has associated itself with almost all of  its major areas. We have a very high regard for that association by this Organization and we commend UNESCO’s  ongoing efforts in Pakistan to promote education as a fundamental right, to improve the quality of education and to  ensure innovation, diffusion, and the sharing of information.
7.2 The situation today calls for reinforced global collaboration. It compels us to act together and shift the tide  towards greater inclusion, equity and social justice. Times of crisis can become times of opportunity, provided the  international community demonstrates sufficient courage and political will to materialize a vision of where we want to be  in 2015 as we assess the implementation of the Millennium Development Goals (MDGs). The multiple crises have also  highlighted the role of multilateralism because this is a highly interdependent world. No Member State can solve the  problems in isolation. Hence, the international community is looking to UNESCO to live up, more than ever, to its role as  a standard-setter, a laboratory of ideas, an advocate for conventions and recommendations, a capacity-builder and a  stronger catalyst for international cooperation. We want peace to prevail in the entire world. However, to achieve this we  have to promote a culture of peace, because peace is made in the minds of men and women. If mindsets are not  changed then we cannot reasonably expect the attainment of peace in the world. Today, UNESCO stands at the  crossroads of history as it has a major role to play in the second decade of the twenty-first century as the most important  organization in the United Nations family to this end.
7.3 Finally, I would like to state that for UNESCO to become an effective multilateral actor for the next decade, we in  Pakistan believe that it is essential for the MDG and education for all (EFA) attainment process to be rooted in Pakistani  realities, ensuring that the MDGs are indigenized and, hence aligning UNESCO’s interventions with the national priorities.  I thank you.
8.1 The Moderator:   Thank you, Mr Minister. The floor is now with…  (The Moderator continues in Arabic)  א٨,٢ .א
(9) Mr Youssef (Egypt) (translation from the Arabic):   Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, distinguished ministers and ambassadors, members of delegations,  it is clear that the global economic and financial crisis has adversely affected the developing and poor countries more than it  has the developed, donor countries which, with their financial and economic resources, were able to pump hundreds of billions  of dollars within a short period of time, if only to a number of economic players and centres, thus enabling them to emerge  from this crisis for a time or within a short period, in spite of the fact that the crisis is expected to continue into next year at  least. Egypt has been affected by this crisis in a way that has caused great concern, particularly in the fields of education and  culture, which have come to be an important strategic area requiring constant development in the Egyptian economic system  at present and for the future. The effect of the crisis on the budget has been specific and focused on these fields with which  UNESCO and the Egyptian Government are concerned, impelling the Organization and the Government to raise the financial  allocations in these fields, particularly in education, in such a way as to achieve an increase, albeit a nominal one for the  current period and the next one, and even if the real value of that budget compared with previous periods is somewhat smaller.  Thus, the important point is the confirmation that the role of UNESCO is more effective and further reaching in cooperation  with the developing countries, which are expected to continue to confront many financial and economic obstacles to the  implementation of the established plans and programmes of such countries, including Egypt. The donor countries must  seriously monitor these exceptional conditions experienced by the developing countries and not refrain from continuing their  cooperation and support for those countries. For that reason, we affirm that the leading role of UNESCO in many of its fields of  competence must be to define the areas of challenge and the real goals in order to meet these challenges, to discuss policies  more effectively, establish the necessary standards which have been decided internationally and help to maintain capacities in  the affected countries, especially the developing countries and the countries of the Third World. This requires a clear view of  what is to be done at country level, in any country with substantial problems, and how such assistance may be useful. To that  end, we call for a basic, pivotal strategic goal in that regard during the next two years, in the field of education. We believe that  progress towards a leading, dynamic role for UNESCO in education for all is a vital necessity. UNESCO must start to lead the  education for all movement with a clear view of the nature of our common goals and the areas of need in terms of resources  and policies in the developing countries, which have many problems and difficulties in implementing these sorts of  programmes. However it is proposed that UNESCO should fund all requirements for education for all, what the world needs is  a leader for such efforts. We urge UNESCO to carry out this exploration and take up this leadership role. We call on UNESCO  to intensify its focus on cooperation with all of the many stakeholders in the field of education, to ensure that the link between  economic development and sustainable development is an inherent aspect of its various programmes and activities, and to  engage in reflection on the roles of the State and other stakeholders in organizing education and providing it to all, boys and  girls alike, in conditions where the public sector is expanding the provision of educational opportunities and improving the  quality of education.   :א١٠,١ א  א  .א
(10.1) The Moderator (translation from the Arabic):    Thank you, brother Mohamed from the Arab Republic of Egypt.  (The Moderator continues in English)
10.2 The floor is now with the Minister of Communication and Information of Colombia.
(11.1) Ms Guerra (Colombia) (translation from the Spanish):   Thank you Mr President. I would like to highlight three points. First, the importance for UNESCO, in coordination with  UNICEF and the International Telecommunication Union, to be able to work as part of a global alliance to promote the  responsible use of the Internet and restrain children’s and young people’s addiction to the Internet, and put an end to bullying  at school and incitation to violence. I believe that if these three organizations join forces, instead of working independently, we  should be able to generate a momentum to encourage teachers and parents to ensure responsible use of the Internet.
(11.2) Secondly, and this is a campaign in which UNESCO should also continue to play a fundamental role, the media and  journalists should commit themselves to dealing responsibly with their audiences, by scrupulously respecting objectivity when
404  addressing the opinion and values of children and young people. In so doing, the media can continue to contribute to  defending democracy and freedom of expression.
(11.3) Lastly, in these areas, I wish to stress the importance of using information and communication technology to  strengthen educational coverage and quality, with much more comprehensive programmes that are not strictly limited to  handing out computers or installing high-speed Internet, but actually provide training, and, on another note, facilitating the  management of electronic waste in schools. Thank you very much.
12. Le Modérateur :   Merci beaucoup, Madame la Ministre, la parole est maintenant au représentant de l’Inde.
13.1 Mr Agrawal (India):   Thank you, Mr Chair. In the morning our honourable Minister covered a number of items, so I would not like to  repeat them. I would just like to mention that as a multilateral agency, UNESCO could also, in addition to a supporting  role, play some proactive role in some of the areas of great importance to all the countries. I would like to just mention  that UNESCO must, through effective coordination with the World Intellectual Property Organization (WIPO), generate  international recognition for the rights of traditional knowledge-holders who have, over the years, contributed immensely  to the conservation of biodiversity and the well-being of humankind. Whenever any application is made for patents based  on our development of the knowledge of traditional knowledge-holders, it should be obligatory on the part of the  applicants to have the prior informed consent of the country of origin for the bioresources, and they should also enter into  a benefit-sharing arrangement with the traditional knowledge-holders.
13.2 I would also like to mention that while most of the developed countries have a demographic deficit, it is the  developing countries who appear to have a demographic surplus. Unfortunately, protectionist tendencies in many  countries in the wake of the economic downturn are not encouraging the migration of skilled workers from the developing  world to the developed world despite Mode 4 of the General Agreement on Trade in Services (GATS) which encourages  this. In this regard, the mutual recognition of qualifications, which UNESCO has been encouraging, would go a long way;  and I would request UNESCO to facilitate interlinkages and mutual understanding between the different conventions  looking into the mutual recognition of qualifications, that would be very useful in encouraging this mode for movement.
13.3 To increase the visibility of UNESCO, we have to ensure that respect for the teaching community is restored in  all societies, as it seems to have declined, and we should also look into what UNESCO means to more than one billion  underprivileged people. For them, we have to use science for the benefit of the masses, and UNESCO could launch a  “project 1 billion”, where it would try to see that something is done for these most deprived sections of society, in  partnership with local authorities, civil society and the media.
13.4 My last point concerns endangered languages, on which UNESCO has rightly put the focus, and we in India  have also taken up a massive project for taking care of these endangered languages and trying to revive them. But I  would like to put the focus on another very important subject in the same area, which is that today we do not seem to  have enough epigraphic scholars who can interpret the ancient languages found in some of the inscriptions on  archaeological finds. So UNESCO, and all of us together, should see that we get these scholars’ knowledge of  interpreting those ancient languages before they leave. Thank you very much.
14.1 The Moderator:   Thank you, Sir. We will certainly retain your very concrete proposals concerning endangered languages and  qualifications, among others.  (The Moderator continues in French)
14.2 La parole est maintenant au Sous-Secrétaire d’État au Ministère des affaires étrangères de Pologne.
15.1 Ms Bernatowicz (Poland):   Thank you. Mr Chairperson, distinguished delegates, I wish to congratulate you on the choice of the subject. I  have just returned from the high-level debate inaugurating the 64th session of the United Nations General Assembly,  which was devoted to effective responses to the global crisis. One of the conclusions of that debate was that States  recognized that the United Nations had an important role in the current world situation, a situation dominated by a  number of global crises. They had a variety of ideas as to how and where the United Nations could make the best  contribution. Our goal is to have a robust multilateral system that effectively responds to the current challenges and  which safeguards such fundamental values as peace, democracy, human rights and sustainable development. UNESCO  needs to be an active and strong component of this system. We expect it to facilitate peaceful coexistence and  collaboration between people of different cultures, languages, races, social groups, religions and traditions. UNESCO  should construct peace in the minds of men by shaping an attitude of common concern for the world and all human  beings; by facilitating mutual understanding and accepting differences; and by building a culture of agreement, respect  and dialogue. In order to achieve success in this sensitive sphere, it is essential to ensure the effectiveness and  coordination of concrete undertakings. It is equally important to nurture proper intellectual attitudes without which  UNESCO’s effectiveness, measured only in terms of quantity, would be illusory. UNESCO must be a part of the reform  process within the United Nations framework. Attainment of UNESCO’s goals requires the Organization’s improved  performance at the national level, particularly within the framework of the “Delivering as One” initiative. UNESCO needs  to be more efficient, effective and results-driven. To achieve this, the Organization should focus on its core tasks and  avoid any dispersion of forces and funds. Only this will produce results. Success in all fields of the Organization’s activity  hinges on vigorous cooperation between UNESCO sectors, the governments of Member States and also civil society.  The National Commissions for UNESCO have a key role to play in this, alongside the cooperation networks established  by UNESCO, such as the Associated Schools Project Network.    PMF 2
15.2 We are glad that this General Conference, in line with the recommendations of the last session of the Executive  Board, will take the decision to conduct a comprehensive evaluation of UNESCO. We hope that many of the issues  raised here will be addressed within the adopted terms of reference. As a Member of the Executive Board, to which we  hope to be elected during this General Conference, Poland will devote close attention to this matter, and we also intend  to make our own contribution. Thank you.
16. Le Modérateur :   La parole est maintenant à Monsieur le Ministre de la culture de la République démocratique du Congo.
17.1 M. Bahekuwa (République démocratique du Congo) :   Merci Monsieur le Président. S’agissant de la réforme de l’UNESCO, nous pensons qu’elle devrait s’opérer dans  le cadre d’une double synergie. Avec les institutions des Nations Unies d’une part, et avec les institutions nationales  d’autre part. De manière concrète, Monsieur le Président, nous souhaiterions insister sur la décentralisation et c’est pour  nous l’occasion de louer, de féliciter le Directeur général sortant, M. Koïchiro Matsuura, pour l’action qu’il a menée en  matière de décentralisation durant son mandat. Cette action, nous pensons qu’elle doit être poursuivie.
17.2 Monsieur le Président, les domaines de compétence de l’UNESCO intéressent l’ensemble des populations,  notamment l’éducation et la culture. Nous pensons donc que l’Organisation doit être mieux déployée sur le territoire des  États membres, en ayant des bureaux sur le terrain, à l’instar d’autres organismes du système des Nations Unies  comme l’UNICEF, l’OMS, etc. La décentralisation a certainement un coût, mais nous pensons qu’avec la volonté  politique, nous pouvons y arriver.
17.3 Je voudrais terminer et profiter de l’occasion qui m’est offerte pour informer le Forum que la République  démocratique du Congo est déterminée à ratifier l’ensemble des conventions relatives à la culture. À cet égard, j’ai le  plaisir de vous annoncer que la procédure parlementaire de ratification des trois conventions essentielles de l’UNESCO  est très avancée et que les instruments de ratification seront déposés bientôt. Je vous remercie, Monsieur le Président.
18.1 Le Modérateur :   Je remercie M. le Ministre de la République démocratique du Congo pour ses propos et pour son appel à la  poursuite de la décentralisation, l’une des clés pour que l’UNESCO, comme Mme la Ministre de Lettonie l’a dit tout à  l’heure, soit une puissance intelligente.
18.2 La parole est maintenant au représentant du Japon.
19.1 Mr Nakagawa (Japan):   Thank you very much, Mr Moderator. With changing global circumstances, and with a new Director-General, we  are at an opportune moment to give deep thought to the future of UNESCO. We should go back to the basics. We should  probe how UNESCO can contribute most effectively and uniquely to the core mandate we have to discharge. UNESCO  is not itself a funding organization, but expectations upon us are mounting, particularly from developing countries. We  could not meet those expectations simply by responding to them. UNESCO’s strengths lie in its ability to provide  concrete plans and programmes and other policy-oriented added value, based on its expertise. This expertise is  developed on the basis of intellectual debate as well as experience in the field. I also notice a trend where many donor  countries are putting more emphasis on bilateral assistance than on funding multilateral efforts. Here, UNESCO can play  an important constructive role. UNESCO can collaborate with donor countries and funding organizations so that expert  policy advice, plans and programmes developed by UNESCO may be implemented by those countries and organizations.  We should start a debate with full awareness of the even more severe financial environment and ever-greater demand  for us to act.
19.2 Mr Moderator, the new administration of Japan, headed by Prime Minister Hatoyama, considers climate change  as one of its core policy objectives. We have made a commitment to reduce current dioxide emissions by 25% compared  to the 1990 level. Here, I have concrete programmes that I wish to put forward for consideration. First, regarding  education for sustainable development (ESD), it would be important for children, and through them their families, to  become aware of the importance of sustainable living. It would be one of the most important investments for our future  generations. In ancient Japan we sensed the concept of mottainai, a traditional Japanese way of not being wasteful.  Japan is determined to pursue this goal. We will host the concluding conference for the United Nations Decade of  Education for Sustainable Development (2005-2014) (DESD) and seek the active support of Member States. Second,  regarding collaboration with the United Nations University (UNU), the main theme is sustainability. UNESCO can work  with UNU and can come up with concrete ideas for intersectoral approaches to cope with global warming and other  issues related to climate change. Thank you for your attention.
20. The Moderator:   Thank you. The representative of Japan was indeed the Vice-Minister for Education, Culture, Sport, Science and  Technology. I thank you for raising the issue of climate change and sustainable development, two areas where it is so  obvious that all agencies should cooperate together to improve our scientific knowledge, to educate people, to help the  environment, and to do all the other things needed in order to have a better planet for all our children. The floor is now for  the Deputy Minister of Higher Education, Science and Technology of Kenya.
21.1 Mr Poghisio (Kenya):   Mr Chairperson, first, as a country, we want to commend the outgoing Director-General for a job well done, and  we want to ask the next Director-General to take the reform agenda forward in strengthening UNESCO’s mandate for the  next decade.
21.2 Mr Chairperson, Kenya believes that there is a positive correlation between investing in education and socio- economic development. This is extremely critical, and we believe that UNESCO can assist us in taking this mandate  forward. So, I want to really agree and support the sentiments of the Secretary of State from the Netherlands, who  actually came up with a reformist agenda for this Organization. We must think outside the box, find out what is in the box.  Recently, the President of the United States of America chaired an extraordinary session of the United Nations General  Assembly. So we must think of doing things differently, and I want to support that. Let us look at the outcome document  and see what we can implement in the best way possible. We, as a country, support the “One United Nations” approach.  We also feel that under the present circumstances of economic recession, climate change and abject poverty, UNESCO  has something to provide. Again, we, as a country, support UNESCO’s education for sustainable development (ESD)  programme, because we, as a country, feel that if this is done the Member States will really benefit quite a lot. There is  an issue with documentation of research in Africa. A lot of research that has been done in Africa has not been  documented, so we feel UNESCO should take up the challenge of being a clearing house for research in this particular  area. In the current era of globalization and regionalization, African universities as well need a lot of support to boost their  competitiveness through quality research and innovations, and we also call upon UNESCO and other partners to  enhance their assistance in this field.
21.3 Lastly, Mr Chairman, because there is no time, illiteracy is still prevalent in many parts of the developing world,  especially in Africa. We feel that UNESCO should enhance assistance to Member States in the implementation of  literacy programmes. There are a lot of things, but we will cover them in another forum. Thank you very much.
22. The Moderator:   Thank you for your remarks. The floor is now for the Vice-Minister of Foreign Affairs of Germany.
23. Mr Ammon (Germany):   Excellencies, ladies and gentlemen, UNESCO should become the hallmark of an international organization  which can react competently, efficiently and quickly to global challenges. To this end, we want to enable UNESCO to  feed its topics constructively into the strategy of the United Nations. On the other hand, we should avoid duplication of  work to guarantee added value. I believe UNESCO can do this if we pursue three goals. As already mentioned by Japan,  UNESCO has to concentrate on its core tasks. It must not lose its way in a maze of programmes. We need the courage  to set clear priorities. Education for sustainable development, for example, is one of those core tasks. We have to enable  the young generation to address the issues of, for example, climate change and the protection of the biosphere.  Secondly, UNESCO needs to further extend cooperation between its programme areas. Here, we need a strategy of  decentralization which guarantees and encourages exchanges of experience between Headquarters and the regions. To  this end, we need an implementation strategy for UNESCO’s core topics. Topics such as cultural diversity or education  for sustainable development should be anchored in all sectors as cross-cutting themes. This would make UNESCO more  efficient and sharpen its profile. We must have the courage to blaze new trails. This includes using new communication  fora. Russia has, for example, proposed using a satellite for UNESCO topics. If UNESCO is to remain a laboratory of  ideas, we have to be able to quickly examine the feasibility of such proposals. We should always remember that we can  use technologies above all to draw young people closer to UNESCO’s work. Thirdly, we bear a responsibility for a  transparent and efficient UNESCO budget. The coherent cost-recovery strategy brings us increased transparency. We  should introduce a mechanism here that cuts administrative costs in a steady and targeted way in the long term.  Resources which thereby become available can strengthen programme work in priority areas. Ladies and gentlemen,  Germany wants to help make UNESCO fit for the future. Let us work together to this end in the coming years. Thank you.
24. The Moderator:   Thank you, Mr Vice-Minister, for your remarks. We can retain at least your call for concentration on core  business, decentralization, intersectorality, the use of new, technologically advanced means of communications and,  finally, transparency in the budget; and these are all, of course, very concrete observations. Our next speaker is  Ms Elizabeth Rugtvedt, State Secretary, Deputy Minister of Education and Research of Norway.
25.1 Ms Rugtvedt (Norway):   Mr Chair, ladies and gentlemen, Norway is a firm supporter of UNESCO, but at the same time we have been  critical and have asked for better reports, better results and improved efficiency. As a friend and supporter of UNESCO,  Norway wants UNESCO to succeed and to make a difference for all Member States, especially for those most in need.  The United Nations reform is an opportunity to enhance the impact of UNESCO and to strengthen its contribution at the  country level. The new decentralization strategy of UNESCO should therefore fit smoothly into the United Nations reform  and enable enhanced cooperation with the other United Nations bodies. I strongly support what my colleague from the  Netherlands said in her keynote speech about the need to prioritize and focus the work and role of UNESCO. In order to  better prepare for those extensive challenges within education, science, culture and communication, Norway has  advocated for an external and independent evaluation of UNESCO. We are very satisfied with the broad support for this  idea and the draft decision adopted by the Executive Board. The recommendation to the General Conference is to  decide to carry out a comprehensive, strategic and forward-looking evaluation that will focus on, inter alia, the  international challenges, UNESCO’s role within the United Nations system, and coherence between these sectors of the  Secretariat and the division of competencies between the governing bodies and the Secretariat. We need a strong  UNESCO to facilitate the development of a much-needed normative instrument to guide our handling of global issues  and, flowing from UNESCO’s normative function, the Organization must further refine its ability and capacity to assist  Member States through upstream capacity development and policy advice.
25.2 Education for all (EFA) should remain the top priority for UNESCO, at least until 2015. We still need to step up  our efforts to reach out to all children with basic education. Millions and millions of people live in areas that are not on the  education map; they occupy white spots on the education map. We do not even have statistics on education and learning    PMF 2
407  in these areas. UNESCO must increase its efforts also to develop ways of improving and monitoring quality. A big  challenge is quality and equity. We need to ensure high quality in the education offered to children from poor families, not  only for the elite. In order to ensure and promote quality, qualified teachers represent the most important factor. The  international crash course on teachers established after the last meeting of the EFA High-Level Group in Oslo can be an  important contribution.
25.3 In a situation where a global financial crisis is still looming, it is of paramount importance to define and protect  the basic interests and needs of the developing countries. The world needs a strong and smart UNESCO. It is our wish  for the future that we all engage in the good of the Organization for the common good of us all. Thank you.
26. The Moderator:   Thank you, Madam Secretary, for your observations. Our next speaker is His Excellency Mr Nzimande, Minister  of Higher Education and Training of South Africa.
27.1 Mr Nzimande (South Africa):   Thank you very much, Mr Chairperson. May I commend my colleague the representative of the Netherlands.  She really has set the tone for this meeting. Her very interesting and provocative questions are what I believe should be  presented to the Director-General and the new Secretariat. Here is an opportunity to look at the Organization through a  fresh lens and to ask how, given the current context in terms of our challenges with the global economic depression, as  well as the challenges with regard to climate change, we position UNESCO in such a way that it continues to be the  leader in this important area, and I do believe the appointment of a new Director-General and Secretariat would certainly  present that opportunity.
27.2 Secondly, I would like us to reaffirm our commitment – and I certainly have the privilege of following on from my  colleague from Norway – to the education for all goals, as well as the Millennium Development Goals. In doing so, we  would be reaffirming our commitment to the poor, to the marginalized, the vulnerable and those countries that are least  developed. That is an important affirmation because it would in itself be a clear sign, an indication of our mandate to  UNESCO, to say that in terms of your leadership these are important areas that cannot be ignored at the expense of  others.
27.3 Thirdly, and this has been conveyed through my colleague from Germany, is the importance of ICTs and, as  reaffirmed by the Minister from India, of seeing what are the common platforms that we could establish and create to  share knowledge in a dynamic way so that we can provide easier and more economic access. I think we must basically  begin to inquire whether indeed knowledge is a common good, a shared commodity, or a commercial commodity that is  being utilized by the more developed countries in order to enhance their GDP, in a way. So one could say that if at all we  have a commitment to sharing ideas and creating a new environment, it is certainly important that we look at the issues  of open source technology and the sharing of knowledge, and the issues of intellectual property in this regard.
27.4 Lastly, I would want to reaffirm our commitment, as a country and a continent, to the issues concerning  sustainable development, particularly with regard to the environment, and I do believe here is an opportunity where we  could, as Member States in the world, say, “Let us be united in terms of what we teach our children from a very young  age to become good citizens of the world”. Thank you very much, Mr Chairperson.
28. The Moderator:   Thank you very much. It is now my honour and pleasure to give the floor to our third keynote speaker, Madam  María Simón, who had been at the plenary session and was therefore a bit late for our discussion here. The floor is now  hers. Madam Simón.
(29.1) Ms Simón (Vice-Minister of Education and Culture, Uruguay) (translation from the Spanish):   Thank you very much Mr President. Good afternoon to you all. I shall speak about Uruguay, and I feel that it is  necessary to begin by talking about where it is and what it is like, as you may not know about it.
(29.2) Uruguay is located in South America, between Argentina and Brazil. It has no border with Paraguay, contrary to  popular belief, perhaps because of the resemblance in name. It lies at a latitude of more or less at 36° South, i.e. quite far  south, and so it is relatively cold. It has a surface area of 180,000 km2 and a population of approximately 3,300,000  inhabitants. The population is therefore small, 3,300,000 people, with only 400,000 children between the ages of 6 and 12,  owing to a low birth rate. This forum has referred to times of crisis and how to safeguard education, culture and science in  times of crisis. And I have to say that Uruguay, sadly, has had more than its fair share of crises. We have been through  several of them. In 2002 in particular, we endured a much more serious crisis than that of 2009, which led the Government, of  which I am a member and which began its tenure in 2005, to come to power amidst a rather severe crisis, characterized by  deindustrialization, lack of production equipment and unemployment. Whereas the 2009 crisis had a relatively smaller impact.  It undoubtedly had an impact, but not as serious, because it was a time of good management and good prices for our products.  I sometimes say that poorly managed booms trigger crises, but well-managed booms leave us on more solid ground.
(29.3) In fact, in 2005 the Government took the reins of a country with a high level of foreign debt, approximately the  equivalent of the annual Gross Domestic Product (GDP), i.e. a very serious debt situation. Now, it is approximately 30% of  GDP, which denotes a very stable situation, as the Uruguay Central Bank reserves increase. This is why I said that we are  well-versed in crises. Between 2005 and 2009, a third of the poor rose out of poverty, i.e. 380 000 people. And approximately  half of the destitute climbed out of extreme poverty during the same period. GDP, which peaked, let us say in 1998, at about  $20 billion, fell to $16 billion and today stands at $34 billion. It has thus shown a marked improvement.
(29.4) Uruguay is categorized as a middle-income country. Its GDP per capita is close to $10,000. This actually poses a  twin challenge: that of combating poverty, but also the need for proper infrastructure for universities and businesses, so that  they may develop the country and serve as engines or driving forces of overall development. We therefore have these two  concomitant requirements to meet and we believe that Uruguay can play an interesting role in triangular projects, in which it  may act somewhat as a link between different worlds; one such project is one that we are currently proposing to UNESCO,  involving the expansion of basic information technology (IT), IT for children, and access to IT, with a view to extending it to  other countries, with which Uruguay can share its experience.
(29.5) Public education is predominant in Uruguay. Between 85 and 87% of children and students of school or university  age attend State schools. Under the present Government, public education has increased from 2.7% of GDP to 4.5%, in line  with the Government’s commitment. This is a major development taking into account that GDP has doubled, meaning that  there has been a considerable increase. A general law on education was approved, based on the concept that education, at all  levels, is a public social good and a human right, and that as such, it has to be universal and life-long. It therefore  encompasses early childhood education, an absolutely critical stage for human development, but also education for young  people and adults as well as older people and also non-formal education, in an open system in which, at the tertiary level in  particular, people can choose different educational paths – for example, starting out with technical training, and then if they    PMF 2
409  feel so inclined, pursuing university education or becoming a lecturer or teacher if that is their vocation, without having to start  from scratch, with credit given for previously acquired knowledge.
(29.6) At the same time during this period, in spite of the pressing need to deal with poverty, which was addressed, a very  ambitious project has been implemented and involves providing a laptop to all children and teachers. At this very moment, all  Uruguayan children are being equipped with personal computers, which they do not leave at school but take home with them.  They can therefore work on them at home, with their families, and in fact, many mothers and fathers share in the experience,  which we believe is quite positive, since this plan is not only educational, but also geared towards social integration; and the  child sometimes becomes the teacher in the home, the one who owns the most expensive object in the house, the most  valuable item, which undoubtedly increases their self-esteem and independence, and incites teachers to do what they do best,  that is, shaping children’s sense of judgement, not merely imparting information, since the information is there; what is  important is instilling the ability to reason. If you are willing and prepared, I would like to show you a short four-minute film on  this plan, because images speak louder than words.  (The speaker continues in French)
29.7 Est-ce possible de voir la vidéo ?  Une vidéo est projetée.
(29.8) (translation from the Spanish) This video shows the Ceibal Plan. I shall stop here, since it is more important that the  children talk than I. These are the computers. It’s an MIT design by Nicholas Negroponte which is very suitable for children.  (The speaker continues in French)
29.9 C’est seulement en espagnol, mais ce sont des enfants qui parlent de leur expérience de l’ordinateur, de ce  qu’ils font, comment ils s’amusent, comment ils apprennent. Ce sont des petits enfants de l’école primaire. En Uruguay,  ils portent un tablier blanc et une cravate bleue. C’est une enseignante qui s’exprime, ensuite une mère. Cet enfant dit  qu’il apprend aux enfants plus petits.  (L’oratrice poursuit en espagnol)
(29.10) (translation from the Spanish) Here the voice over ends, so I shall speak at the same time so as not to take up too  much time. These are shots of children using Internet in schools or near schools – a wi-fi hot spot has been installed in every  school so that everyone is connected to Internet. Aside from schools, wi-fi is also available in a large number of public squares  and other areas, and around access points. The computers are equipped with a video camera, which the children can use for  example to film a pig with its piglets, or the birth of a lamb and then publish their video on line. It is not only a way to learn but  to share what they learn on the web.
(29.11) Our President directly supported this plan, which we believe will definitely change the future, because this generation  will not be subjected to what is known as the digital divide. This will not exist for the new generation, since all children, even  the poorest among them and those who live in the most remote areas, will be computer-literate – This computer literacy is not  simply an end in itself but a tool for learning.
(29.12) For this reason, Uruguay, together with Paraguay and Rwanda, is submitting a proposal for evaluation and  cooperation, with Uruguay and with Rwanda, to share Uruguay’s experience. We know that experience can never be  transplanted and that every society has its own needs, styles and methods, but as the first country in the world to provide all  schoolchildren with computers using a programme of this type, our interesting experience is worth sharing.
(29.13) I wanted to speak briefly about cultural issues, given that the Conference and UNESCO’s fields of competence cover  education, culture, science and technology. In terms of culture, significant progress has been made from an initial situation  where resources were lacking. Much is still needed, but important programmes have been created such as cultural grant funds  and open funds, which are not prizes for completed projects (which also exist). Above all, support is given to projects that  otherwise would not exist, such as those geared towards young film directors, artists, and directors of theatre, dance and other  performing arts. These grant funds have had a huge impact. One part of the prize is to go on tour around the country. This is  an important aspect of the prize for artists, who want to reach out to their audiences and express themselves.
(29.14) We have also acquired existing cultural infrastructures such as theatres and cinemas, often located in remote areas.  We have installed a series of centres where people can access Internet and culture in general, at around 100 centres across  the country, which is not very large, as I said before. Even the most remote areas are covered, so that all citizens have the  same rights, the same access to culture, and the same capacity to produce culture. Culture is not only something to be  consumed or absorbed passively; each person has the right to express his or her culture and vision of the world.
(29.15) Convinced as we are also that science and technology are key to development, and that we must continue the  transition from primary sector activities to those with more added value (Uruguayan software has already shown that this is  possible), significant investments are being made in science and technology through the National Research and Innovation  Agency (ANII). We believe that the top priority is lifelong education for all, throughout every person’s life. “For all” means  exactly that, and the challenge lies in extending education to all without diminishing the quality, but actually improving it  instead. We also believe however that for there to be education there needs to be culture, as well as a vibrant cultural  environment. Research is also necessary, because knowledge cannot only be taught. If knowledge were not continually  renewed, it would die out.
(29.16) Uruguay is a candidate for membership of UNESCO’s Executive Board. We are eager to share our experience, and  would do so of course even if we were not on the Board. We feel we have much to share and much to learn from all of you. In  fact, we are providing an impetus for international cooperation in all of these areas. Thank you very much.   (Applause)
30.1 Le Modérateur :   Je remercie Madame María Simón, qui est ingénieur de formation et Ministre de l’éducation et de la culture de  l’Uruguay, pour ce témoignage. Je suppose que nous aurions tous aimé davantage l’école si nous y étions allés à cheval,  comme cela se fait chez vous, Madame la Ministre.
30.2 J’invite à nouveau les représentants des pays qui voudraient s’exprimer, à mettre leur plaque à la verticale pour  que nous complétions notre liste d’intervenants pour cet après-midi.  (Le Modérateur poursuit en anglais)
30.3 Our next speaker is the Minister of Higher Education and Research of Sweden.
31.1 Mr Krantz (Sweden):   Thank you very much, Mr Chairperson. After this interesting speech here, I think it is time for some more hard- core organizational issues for Sweden. I want to raise some issues concerning the organizational structure again and  organizational reform of UNESCO. UNESCO needs to become more efficient and results-driven. The potential of  strengthening UNESCO’s upstream and normative work through policy advice and capacity-building must be clearly  prioritized in all sectors. The Organization needs to set clear priorities and to concentrate on its core tasks. Only then can  we maximize results. The current Medium-Term Strategy is based on a goals structure with associated main lines of  action. Sweden strongly supports this model, and we view it as a process which has only just begun. Strengthened,  results-based management is therefore necessary both in programmes and staff management. This focus must be    PMF 2
411  applied in a consistent and comparable manner in all programme areas, as well as in human resources management.  Senior staff should be evaluated before their contracts are prolonged. This is standard for many other United Nations  agencies, such as UNDP, where UNESCO could find models and inspiration. The cost for central administration is still  too high, and further work is needed to transfer resources from administration to normative work and programme  activities. Sweden would like to see a continuous transfer of funds from administrative costs to programme activities. We  would welcome the introduction of a permanent mechanism for the constant reduction of central administrative costs.  Administrative costs can also be further reduced by reorganizing the structure of the Secretariat. The idea of having five  programmes is not set in stone. The Director-General can freely decide the organization of the Secretariat and thereby  free up resources that can be used in programme activities.
31.2 Since the foundation of UNESCO, the world has changed dramatically. Sweden therefore welcomes the  decision by the 182nd session of the Executive Board for a comprehensive external evaluation of UNESCO and as I also  mentioned in the general debate here earlier, we are ready to do our part in financing this evaluation.
31.3 Lastly, I would like also to mention some of the areas that we think are important for UNESCO to deal with in the  coming years: we want to see an annual forum for freedom of expression and freedom of the press, and also for  UNESCO to focus on primary education and literacy for all. Thank you.
32.1 Le Modérateur :   Merci, Monsieur le Ministre, d’avoir également évoqué le problème de la liberté d’expression dans notre débat,  c’est une initiative tout à fait bienvenue.
32.2 Notre prochain orateur est M. le Ministre de l’éducation nationale, de la recherche, de la culture et des arts des  Comores.
33.1 M. Afraitane (Comores) :   Merci, Monsieur le Président. Le monde fait face à une nouvelle crise et à de nouveaux défis. Il est tout à fait  naturel que l’UNESCO se pose des questions et cherche à jouer un rôle important, aussi bien au niveau international  qu’aux niveaux régional et national.
33.2 Monsieur le Président, il est nécessaire de souligner au préalable que nous sommes tous conscients et  convaincus que l’UNESCO est un acteur multilatéral, au moins dans ses domaines de compétence. Pour être efficace,  elle doit mieux s’imprégner des réalités nationales, être à l’écoute des États membres, et plus particulièrement des pays  en grande difficulté, peser sur le concert du multilatéralisme, mobiliser des moyens en faveur d’activités concrètes aux  niveaux national et régional, ou accroître ceux-ci, à innover dans le cadre de son partenariat avec les États membres et  la société civile afin de parvenir à une plus grande visibilité et à des résultats palpables par une approche participative.
33.3 Enfin, il ne serait pas inutile de faire un examen minutieux de l’état du monde en général, et des pays en  particulier, en ce qui concerne les domaines de compétence de l’UNESCO, en vue d’élaborer ensuite un document  prospectif portant sur les dix, voire les vingt prochaines années. Un tel document pourra indiquer les grands objectifs à  atteindre, les actions prioritaires à entreprendre, les résultats attendus et les indicateurs précis à utiliser. Je vous  remercie.
34.1 Le Modérateur :   Je remercie le Ministre des Comores pour ses remarques.   (Le Modérateur poursuit en anglais)
34.2 Our next speaker is the Deputy Minister of Education of Denmark.
35.1 Mr Haarder (Denmark):   Thank you, Mr Chair. The mission and ideals of UNESCO are as important as ever, and UNESCO’s activities  within its programmes are indispensable in this work. UNESCO has a key role as a strong and unconditional advocate of  human rights in all its fields of competence, and UNESCO has a strong responsibility as lead agency for the global  education for all movement, including the Millennium Development Goals and literacy. We believe that the reform  initiatives must continue so that UNESCO will be in line with the development of the United Nations system. UNESCO’s  place in the United Nations family, support from the Member States and the ability to collect extrabudgetary means, and  the respect for the Organization depend on how UNESCO succeeds in being lead agency. UNESCO should streamline  its activities in accordance with its core mandate, and thereby contribute to a clearer division of labour among the United  Nations and partners. If UNESCO is to accomplish its tasks, the effectiveness has to be improved and UNESCO should  continue the reform and decentralization process. Headquarters must increase efforts to convey reform messages  through the regional country teams. We would like to see a more extensive decentralization of responsibility in order to  meet the needs of specific countries. UNESCO must be more visible and focused at the country level. UNESCO’s  upstream and normative work through policy advice and capacity-building must be strengthened. One of UNESCO’s  strengths is first and foremost its credibility with governments and authorities, and the intervention should therefore  primarily be upstream, specifically vis-à-vis ministers of education. The potential for cooperation with civil society, ranging  from NGOs to the private sector, needs to be developed. UNESCO should continue to further integrate its own institutes  into the work and to strengthen their involvement as mutually supportive actors within the UNESCO family.
35.2 A thorough evaluation focusing on the role of UNESCO in the years ahead is necessary to strengthen UNESCO.  We, the Member States, must look at UNESCO’s ability to deliver, assess its relevance and propose necessary changes.  Thank you very much.
36. The Moderator:   Thank you, Minister. Since I do not have any additional speakers on my list, I will now give the floor, if they so  wish, to our three keynote speakers for a final word, if they have one. Madam Koķe?
37.1 Ms Koķe (Latvia):   Thank you, Mr Chairperson. It was really very challenging to listen to the other keynote speakers and all the  interventions, and I think that the majority of speakers pointed out that nowadays, and most probably more in the future,  it is not possible to solve any problem in isolation. Therefore, I think that the key for the future is really this  interdependent and multilateral approach to the questions facing UNESCO.
37.2 Secondly, I think that we can make a bridge from the first meeting of the day to this one by saying that the next  decade will be the decade of transformation. This transformation, most probably, will be based on the promotion of a  bottom-up approach because the other one will not work as efficiently as we all need; and the way to bring about the  transformation, as the majority of speakers have pointed out, is to cooperate with each other on certain principles. Let me  mention some of those that I grasped from this discussion: the openness to diversity through decentralization and  responsibility – especially on the part of the mass media, as some countries mentioned – and, of course, the  transformation in this Organization itself by not only adapting to changes but, moreover, promoting changes. And I think  that in these dynamic times, actually we all know that it is hardly possible to work more. What may be possible is to work  more efficiently, but in order to work efficiently we clearly need the criteria and instruments to measure that efficiency. So  the progress definitely should be measured. So to my mind, the future of UNESCO is in the balance between traditions  and new or innovative approaches. Thank you very much.
38. The Moderator:   Thank you, Madam Minister. Madam Simón?
(39.1) Ms Simón (Uruguay) (translation from the Spanish):   I think that, as the Minister was saying, the world is becoming more and more interdependent,: interdependent for  better or for worse. The 2002 crisis which I referred to earlier, in my country and in the Southern Cone, was relatively isolated,  as was the crisis in Mexico. Now, crises are no longer able to remain isolated, they are on a global scale. This  interdependence also means that if part of the world lives very badly, if part of the world is marginalized, then we are all living  in a world which is not good to live in. Although we are among the privileged, we do not want to live in a world which is  profoundly unjust. And if it is profoundly unjust it is profoundly dangerous. I believe we must be internationally and  multilaterally aware of this and of the fact that culture, as a factor of integration, can also be at the root of crises. The 2009  crisis has not just economic causes but also cultural causes. Habits are changing. Consumption is increasing. Consumption is  increasing and saving is shrinking. These are cultural changes; proof that culture has great power for better or for worse. It  therefore requires a great deal of attention. We must protect and promote an honest and caring culture because, let me repeat,  as it can be for the better, it could also be for the worse.     PMF 2
(39.2) We are certainly facing an important transformation in the world. Our economists have not forecast well, neither  global economists nor economists in any country. Economists throughout the world seem stuck on predicting the past. Now  they are going to have to start predicting the future. They will have to adapt their theories and it has been proven that theories  of a completely free, savage market do not protect the world and do not protect humanity. Indeed, what is lacking is  countercyclical polices. In all modesty, in Uruguay we have, within the realm of the possible and as I have explained, tried to  implement countercyclical policies. I feel that, in general, the world is trying to apply countercyclical policies which will enable  the transformation we are facing to be brought to a satisfactory conclusion. In the midst of change, inequalities may well  increase, leading to a deeply unbalanced world. Or we may manage to improve our lot or take the road to greater well-being.
(39.3) It is clear that we must pay attention to the environment and to the effects on the planet. If the highest standard of  living in the world, enjoyed by those who live best and consume the most, were to be extended to everyone, we would need  the surface of six Earths. This projection, made by the renowned sociologist Simon Bauman, is clearly unviable. We must  therefore find a way to live better without plundering the Earth.
(39.4) We would like UNESCO to reflect this state of awareness. UNESCO clearly cannot change the world alone. States  must also be persuaded and UNESCO will be receptive. But UNESCO can also act as a catalyst to this change in thinking and  in culture which will concern not only governments but nations as well. Thank you.
40.1 The Moderator:   Gracias señora Ministra. It may be beyond my role as moderator to somehow try and summarize your extremely  rich input into the thinking, and I am sure the Secretariat will have your proposals, suggestions and ideas taken into  consideration. But if I ventured to summarize some of the most frequent ideas, I would say I have learned this afternoon  at least ten commandments coming from the room for UNESCO, as one of you said, to react competently, quickly and  efficiently to the rapid change in the international system.
40.2 The first commandment to UNESCO would be: make sure your priorities are right. You cannot do everything at  the same time. You need to prioritize. The second commandment I heard is that there is some unease in the relationship  between the Member States and the Secretariat, and that some thought should be given to that relationship. The third  commandment coming from the room to UNESCO, I would say, is concentrate on your core business, and keep the  education for all programme going, because it is far from having completed its function. The fourth commandment I  heard from you is that decentralization is a good idea, and that it should be pursued. The fifth has to do with ICTs. There  has been some insistence in the room that this is something that should be kept. The sixth, which was mentioned by our  first keynote speaker and then taken up by many among you, is that UNESCO should work intersectorally because most  of the issues are not specific to one sector as opposed to the others. The seventh commandment is that there is nothing  in the world nowadays that UNESCO can do alone without the other agencies of the United Nations family, and the  cases of sustainable development and climate change are obvious examples where a high level of cooperation among  the various agencies of the United Nations should take place. The eighth commandment I heard from you was that you  wanted even more transparency in spending and budgetary issues. The ninth commandment is that UNESCO should be  even more open, if possible, to new technological means of communication in order to respect one of the most important  values of this Organization, that is the fostering of freedom of expression. And finally, the tenth commandment I heard  from you is that you should take into consideration what civil society has in mind and what it can do with, before, after or  instead of national governments and UNESCO itself.
40.3 These are the ten commandments I heard from you. I am sure there were many more, and I am sure that the  Secretariat is going to be listening to you and taking all this into consideration. I thank you all for your contribution to this  very rich afternoon, and I give the floor back to the lady who gave me the floor in the first place. Madam.
41. The President:   Thank you very much. I would just like to thank all of you who took part in the morning and afternoon sessions of  this Plenary Ministerial Forum; and to say that I expect to have a summary of all the discussions produced by the  Secretariat in as short a time as possible. Thank you all once again. This Plenary Ministerial Forum is adjourned.  The meeting rose at 4.40 p.m.  La séance est levée à 16 h 40  Se levanta la sesión a las 16.40  Заседание закрывается в 16.40  א א٤,٤٠א   会议于 16 时 40 分结束