1.1 The President:   Mr President of Turkey, Mr Chair of the Executive Board, Mr Director-General, Distinguished Ministers,  Excellencies, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to begin by welcoming our guest of honour, His Excellency the President  of the Republic of Turkey, Mr Abdullah Gül. Mr President, on behalf of the Member States of UNESCO, it is an immense  honour for me to welcome you to UNESCO. Thank you very much for being here with us today. Allow me first of all to  pay tribute to your country, which is one of the founding members of this Organization, for its long history of fruitful  collaboration with UNESCO. Over the past years, Turkey has developed a broad range of initiatives that have  significantly furthered UNESCO’s mandate and mission. I should also like to praise your personal commitment to and  active support for UNESCO’s programmes, particularly in the fields of culture and science. Your initiative to host the fifth  World Water Forum in Istanbul last March, during which the third edition of the World Water Development Report has  been launched, marked another milestone in UNESCO’s successful relationship with Turkey. Furthermore, the Alliance  of Civilizations, an initiative Turkey co-sponsored with Spain under the auspices of the Secretary-General of the United  Nations, is a significant instrument for the promotion of dialogue, mutual understanding, tolerance and cultural diversity,  which are the core values of UNESCO’s mandate. Mr President, your presence here today provides us with a unique  opportunity to take our collective responsibility to a higher level.
1.2 Excellencies, ladies and gentlemen, the Plenary Ministerial Forum is a promising innovation in the work of the  General Conference. Its objective is to provide a platform for really intellectual and stimulating policy exchange in parallel  to the general policy debate. It seeks also to enhance the role of ministers during the General Conference, in order to  make your attendance even more relevant and attractive, both for your benefit and for the visibility of the Organization.  This new format holds, therefore, considerable promise in terms of energizing our interactions, and to do so through the  engagement of ministers. Two main themes have been proposed for today’s debate. A first session will be devoted to  discussing the current global financial, economic and social crises and their impact on UNESCO’s five main domains.  The 35th session of the General Conference comes indeed at a momentous period of world history. For one thing,  countries in the entire world – poor and rich alike – are trying to leave the financial and economic crisis of the past  months behind them and to cope with the impact and negative fallout. UNESCO must be on the alert, and build a support  structure to assist especially the poorer countries in protecting the accomplishments and progress of past years towards  realizing the Millennium Development Goals (MDGs), and in investing out of the crisis by maintaining commitments to  education, the sciences, culture and communication and the media, which provide the foundations for recovery and  future prosperity. In the second session you will be invited to exchange ideas about the future of UNESCO in the next  decade as an effective multilateral actor, including in pursuit of international goals and United Nations reform. The  background document prepared by the Secretariat sets out a panoply of challenges with which we all grapple. We may,  however, need to make choices in order to identify those areas where UNESCO can most likely make a palpable impact.  In all our efforts, we should never forget our solemn obligation to support the poorest and most vulnerable. More often  than not, women find themselves at a disadvantage. We pay lip service to promote gender equality but fail in concrete  delivery. We equally pay lip service to young people and find that we simply do not do enough for our successor  generation. The same applies for the smaller and weaker countries, first and foremost, the least developed countries and  small island developing States. Here UNESCO must focus on their needs and provide assistance at the country level.  Lastly, all our efforts are predicated on cooperation and open dialogue among all stakeholders, be they States, civil  society organizations, academics, the media and journalists or the vast private sector. As dialogue begins at home, such  cooperation must take place within countries and across frontiers and cultural divides. Intercultural dialogue is the  principal response to this exigency. UNESCO, on the world, scene is second to none in this area, given its experience,  its capacities and skills and the trust it has accumulated over several decades among the peoples of the world.
1.3 In conclusion, let me thank the two very distinguished moderators, Mr Edward Mortimer of the United Kingdom  of Great Britain and Northern Ireland and Mr Ghassan Salame of Lebanon, for having accepted a lead role in this  uncharted environment. I equally wish to express my appreciation to the distinguished ministers who have volunteered to  serve as keynote speakers, introducing the two main themes from their perspective, and thus to open up the debate. We  are indebted to you all for your readiness to join us at this moment, and I look forward to a most exciting debate. Thank  you for your attention.    PMF 1
2. The President:   Ladies and gentlemen, I should now like to invite the Director-General of UNESCO, Mr Koïchiro Matsuura, to  take the floor. Mr Director-General, you have the floor, Sir.
3.1 Le Directeur général :    Monsieur le Président de la République de Turquie, Monsieur le Président de la Conférence générale, Monsieur  le Président du Conseil exécutif, Mesdames et Messieurs les ministres, Excellences, Mesdames et Messieurs, nous  traversons une période de grande incertitude marquée par des crises multiples et complexes - énergique, alimentaire,  financière, climatique. S’y ajoutent la montée silencieuse de la pauvreté et les inégalités qui se creusent depuis près  d’une génération.
3.2 Il ne s’agit pas, j’en suis malheureusement convaincu, d’un phénomène passager. Nous courons désormais le  risque réel de le voir se transformer en une crise mondiale du développement. Aujourd’hui, on ne peut plus considérer  comme acquis les progrès réalisés depuis dix ans en faveur du développement. Les chiffres sont alarmants. La  récession mondiale a déjà rejeté 100 millions de personnes de plus sous le seuil de l’extrême pauvreté. La faim fait des  ravages et la mortalité infantile est repartie à la hausse. Les victimes de cette crise sont les plus vulnérables, les plus  faibles et il est d’autant plus nécessaire que l’Afrique et l’égalité entre les sexes restent nos priorités majeures. Une  réflexion commune s’impose, au plus haut niveau, sur les origines, les manifestations et les répercussions de la crise  dans les domaines qui sont ceux de l’UNESCO : l’éducation, les sciences, la culture, la communication et l’information.
3.3 Je me réjouis que cette première édition du Forum ministériel plénier, qui marque une innovation dans  l’organisation de la Conférence générale, nous en donne l’occasion. À cet égard, je tiens à remercier les ministres et les  personnalités qui ont accepté de présenter et de modérer vos débats tout au long de cette journée. Je voudrais rendre  particulièrement hommage à Son Excellence M. Abdullah Gül, Président de la République de Turquie, qui nous fait  l’immense honneur d’ouvrir les débats ce matin. Les thèmes qui vous sont proposés, à savoir les moyens d’investir pour  sortir de la crise dans les domaines de l’UNESCO et le rôle spécifique de l’Organisation dans la poursuite des objectifs  internationaux de développement, contribueront à nourrir notre réflexion et à orienter notre action dans le cadre du  Programme à venir.  (Le Directeur général poursuit en anglais)
3.4 Mr President, while the precise impact of the crisis, including on the level of overseas development assistance  (ODA) flows, remains to be determined, it is affecting all countries. In Africa especially, which is a global priority for  UNESCO, the significant danger is that the continent will suffer disproportionately; and as we know, in times of hardship  it is women and girls who suffer first. We must avoid the pitfalls of the 1980s recession, when a reduction in investment  hit the social domains. UNESCO, as the rest of the United Nations, is monitoring closely the impact of the crisis on all its  fields of competence. We intend to pursue these efforts and to bring our findings to the attention of governments, policy- makers and key donors. Consider education, for example. Spending on education is one of the best investments a  country can make. Research shows that each extra year of schooling increases per capita GDP by 4% to 6%. Two  UNESCO surveys launched earlier this year show a mixed picture of what is happening. In some middle-income  countries, counter-cyclical measures aimed at stimulating the economy are having positive effects on education, for  example, through investment in school-building projects; and Egypt has voted a budget that increases expenditure on  education by 15.5% this year over last. Yet, other countries are showing negative trends: teacher recruitment being  frozen and development budgets for elementary education, literacy and early childhood education being cut. My  experience at the head of UNESCO over the past 10 years has convinced me that there is a direct link between investing  in knowledge and accelerating development. Indeed, this was the premise on which UNESCO was founded. This crisis  must not become a development crisis, rolling back years of investment in social sectors and soft infrastructure such as  education, science, culture and communication. We believe that this is a time not only to preserve the gains made, but  actually to increase investment in core areas. That is why I wrote to G20 leaders ahead of their meeting in London on
2  April to argue for increased investment in the knowledge-based social domains as the key to sustainable recovery,  social cohesion, prosperity and peace. Their communiqué, and that of the United Nations Chief Executives Board  meeting here at UNESCO a few days later, recognized the need for continued investment in these domains. I also  personally urged G8 leaders to foster greater investment in education, and was pleased that, in their L’Aquila Declaration,  adopted on 10 July, they reaffirmed the right to education for all and their commitment to the six Dakar goals, stating that  “investing in education and skills development is crucial for a sustainable recovery from the current economic crisis and  for long term development”.
3.5 Committing to resolving the crisis must also mean renewing our collective engagement in the multilateral system,  for there can be no sustainable and effective response without international cooperation. With five years left to the target  date for achieving internationally agreed development goals, including the Millennium Development Goals (MDGs) and  the Dakar EFA goals, we need to look hard at our approaches for doing so.
3.6 This must include a renewed commitment to development aid, over and above debt relief. While donors have  made significant efforts in recent years to increase ODA levels, the stark reality is that it remains insufficient, it is  imbalanced in favour of a few countries. It does not target enough those most in need, and it still does not count some  vital activities. For example, normative and standard-setting activities, and much of UNESCO’s work in culture, are not  counted as contributing to development by the Development Committee of the Organisation for Economic Cooperation  and Development (OECD/DAC). As Director-General of a United Nations specialized agency, let me also note that the  generation-long trend to maintain the budgets of United Nations organizations at a near zero nominal growth level is
372  seriously hampering our collective ability to assist developing countries. This situation is of great concern to all United  Nations organizations.
3.7 Mr President, this forum is a double opportunity. It is an opportunity to advocate the need to increase investment  in and through education, science, culture and communication. It is also an opportunity for you to tell us how UNESCO  can best carry out its mission in the coming years, particularly what type of engagement from UNESCO can have the  greatest impact; what sort of specialist policy advice and capacity-building could benefit you most. In your debates, we  would like to hear your assessment of the impact of the crises on your country and what it means in terms of meeting the  challenges of the internationally agreed development goals. For example, your discussions on the full spectrum of our  educational agenda could really help support our actions and reinforce UNESCO’s position vis-à-vis its partners and  stakeholders. Your inputs will also be particularly important concerning UNESCO’s action in other key domains, including  science, technology and innovation policies; the management of freshwater and the oceans; ethical norms and social  transformations; the promotion of cultural and linguistic diversity; the building of knowledge societies; and post-conflict  and post-disaster situations. We also expect to benefit from your exchanges on the perspectives, challenges and  opportunities arising from UNESCO’s role as a specialized agency within a reforming United Nations system. How can  we ensure ownership for national responses in key domains and harness the potential of South-South and North-South- South cooperation? I invite you to debate in a very open and interactive manner, and to be bold in your  recommendations. You may be sure that I will follow your debates with great interest. I therefore wish you every success  and thank you very much for your attention.  (Applause)
4. The President:   Thank you very much, Mr Director-General, for your remarks. Ladies and gentlemen, I now have the honour to  invite His Excellency Mr Abdullah Gül, President of the Republic of Turkey, to take the floor. I wish to express to you, Sir,  my warmest thanks for the words that you are going to give, and we look forward to having you speak to us this morning.  You now have the floor, Sir.
5.1 Mr Gül (President of Turkey):   Mr President of the General Conference, Mr Chair of the Executive Board, Mr Director-General, distinguished  heads of delegations, ladies and gentlemen, I am privileged to deliver this keynote address in the Plenary Ministerial  Forum of the UNESCO General Conference, convening for the first time. I am also honoured to be the first Turkish  President to address the General Conference. Mr President of the General Conference, I congratulate you warmly on  your recent election to this important post.
5.2 Universal institutions like UNESCO that bridge divides and unite nations around common values should continue  playing important roles in our times. By promoting collaboration among nations in the fields of education, science and  culture, UNESCO has already proven to be an essential tool for the promotion of a culture of peace in the world. It should  continue to be so. Because all and each of UNESCO’s fields of activity are fundamental requirements for our peoples to  benefit fully from globalization. They are also fundamental to confront and remedy the challenges we face, such as the  current global economic crisis. Therefore, UNESCO, as a part of the United Nations family, should remain decidedly the  lead agency in the core areas of education, science, culture and communication. No doubt this ministerial forum will  provide a platform in trying to find creative solutions to current global challenges and to improve UNESCO’s role in  handling them. The two topics to be discussed today are indeed very relevant in this regard. I hope that today’s  deliberations will serve as a guide to UNESCO and its Member States in their work to overcome these challenges. And I  hope words will be supported by deeds.
5.3 Excellencies, ladies and gentlemen, I have come to Paris from Istanbul where we hosted the 2009 IMF-World  Bank Annual Meetings. Naturally, the consequences of the global economic and financial crisis were at the top of the  agenda. Deep concerns, but also hopes, were pronounced. The need to learn lessons from this serious crisis and move  on with joint and coordinated action were stressed. Therefore, I think the choice of topics for the ministerial forum is very  relevant to the global agenda of today. Indeed, the current international economic and financial crisis has clearly proven  that improved global governance is of key importance. The remedies of the past are not adequate to address the present  challenges in economic, social and political spheres. In this context, the demand for a new and reinvigorated  multilateralism is pressing, and this also relates to UNESCO’s fields of activity. Excellencies, during times of financial and  economic crisis, the temptation may be strong for governments to cut first in social sectors. This temptation must be  resisted. On the other hand, we must see that even a fraction of the large sums spent to stimulate the economies and  bail out banks would mean large investments for schools, museums or laboratories. Due to their link to the economy, the  case for investing in education and science is more apparent.
5.4 Culture also needs investment during times of crisis. For example, one might ask what does cultural heritage  protection have to do with the economic and financial crisis? However, we well know that during any kind of crisis,  human beings need the feeling of security, stability and confidence in their lives more than ever. Stability means  continuity, and continuity is a defining aspect of cultural heritage.
5.14 Looking at a centuries-old monument built by our ancestors that has stood through wars and troubled times, or  listening to a song or a poem that has existed for centuries, makes us feel self-confident and gives us a sense of stability  and continuity. Therefore, investing in the protection of cultural heritage means helping strengthen of our societies,  especially at times of crisis, economic or of cultural identity. Excellencies, UNESCO also has a pre-eminent role in  promoting cultural diversity and dialogue among cultures. As a driver of economic and social progress, cultural diversity  should be integrated into development strategies and country-level programmes. In this regard, the International Year for  the Rapprochement of Cultures 2010, to be led by UNESCO, is timely. In our interconnected world, not a single society is    PMF 1
373  isolated from chronic or new problems like terrorism, racism, xenophobia, gender or religious-based forms of  discrimination, among them Islamophobia and anti-Semitism. We should remember that economic and financial crises  and unemployment create conditions where extremist views thrive and find greater audiences. I am deeply concerned  that a rise in extremism might generate new conflicts and tragedies, in addition to the existing ones, among which  Palestine is the foremost. Therefore, fostering mutual understanding is key to effective conflict prevention. UNESCO is  well-placed to work across frontiers and continents to enhance cultural exchange and intercultural harmony. The Alliance  of Civilizations initiative, launched by Turkey and Spain under the auspices of the United Nations with UNESCO’s  participation, is a concrete step in this direction.
5.5 Excellencies, ladies and gentlemen, never in history has it been more pressing to invest in education as a major  driver in building inclusive and equitable societies. Indeed, education is essential not only for development, but also for  fostering mutual understanding and respect between cultures. Education is also an essential right for all, and removing  all obstacles to this end should continue to be a high priority on the agendas of governments, international organizations  and civil society. UNESCO has a central role to play in this process, as manifested in its leadership in initiatives such as  education for all (EFA), the United Nations Literacy Decade (2003-2012), and the United Nations Decade of Education  for Sustainable Development (2005-2014). Previous experience shows that the negative impact of an economic  depression is first felt by women and girls. Therefore, taking appropriate measures to protect the gains of gender equality  efforts must be one of our priorities. Additional financing should be channelled to the most vulnerable. Moreover,  especially sub-Saharan Africa, small island developing States and least developed countries should keep their place  among the priorities of UNESCO’s education agenda. In this respect, North-South and South-South cooperation  schemes should be encouraged. Official development assistance for education must be kept at least at current levels.  The broader use of information technologies in education is becoming essential. In this connection, open and distance  learning will have a decisive role in effectively training people at a reasonable cost. UNESCO Member States should  share their good practices in this area. I am proud to say that in Turkey, Anadolu University, which offers distance  education to more than one and a half million undergraduate students, is an internationally recognized distance learning  example. With our expertise, we are ready to contribute to developing distance learning projects. Lifelong learning is  another important subject. The economic crisis has once again proven that lifelong learning, offering greater workforce  flexibility, can be a valuable asset against unemployment. Technical and vocational education and training can contribute  to employment creation and productivity, and they promote economic development.
5.6 Scientific progress, both in the natural and social sciences, has proven to be essential for sustainable  development. The magnitude of global challenges of today, such as climate change, requires more than ever the wise  application of innovative solutions. UNESCO National Commissions, UNESCO Chairs and the Associated Schools  Project Network should assume roles in the sharing and propagation of scientific and technological experience.
5.7 We should all be mindful that the economic and financial crisis should not negatively affect democratic reform  processes and human rights standards, because neither democracy nor sustainable economic development is  conceivable without freedom of expression. In this regard, the sensitivity of UNESCO about the independence and safety  of the media and its professionals is justified and appropriate. Best practices and professional and ethical guidelines  should be encouraged, always with due respect for the principle of freedom of expression.
5.8 Excellencies, UNESCO’s priorities have already been set by the Medium-Term Strategy for 2008-2013. Within  this perspective, Africa and gender equality deserve special attention, especially under the global crisis conditions.  Turkey shares and supports those priorities. I mentioned earlier the need for deeds to support words. With regard to  Africa, for example, Turkey has launched an “Outreach to Africa” policy in 2005; we convened the Turkey-Africa  Cooperation Summit last year; and International Cooperation and Development Agency, TICA, and several Turkish  NGOs are already serving people across Africa. Working to achieve gender equality is also a priority for Turkey. We still  have much to do, but to illustrate our achievements regarding the representation of women in different sectors: 40% of  university academics, 54% of health professionals, 33% of law professionals and 27% of diplomats in Turkey are women.
5.9 Excellencies, ladies and gentlemen, at this point I would like to pay tribute to the Director-General, Mr Matsuura,  for having initiated necessary reforms to improve the performance of the Organization. Without these efforts, UNESCO  would have been less prepared in the face of global challenges and requirements, among them the current economic  crisis. As one of the 20 founding members of UNESCO, Turkey looks forward to working closely with the new Director- General also. I am fully assured that enriched with valuable and much-needed ideas such as the “new humanism”, as  formulated by Ms Irina Bokova in her vision paper, and with her focus on the “One United Nations’ approach, UNESCO  will continue to lead our common endeavour to create more just and prosperous societies based on knowledge,  tolerance and equal opportunities for all, through education, science and culture, in peace and harmony. Thank you for  your attention.   (Applause)
6.1 The President:   Mr President, allow me to thank you very much for your enlightening intervention. Please rest assured that we  will not fail to take into consideration in our debates the points that you have raised and the reflections that you have  shared with us today. I would like, on behalf of all of the countries represented here, to extend our sincere thanks to you  for your presence at UNESCO today. Thank you very much, Sir.
6.2 And now, ladies and gentlemen, with your permission, I shall ask you please to remain seated until the cortège  of the President has left the room. At this instant, I would like to turn the meeting over to the moderators, who will be here  to continue the programme with you. Thank you for your presence here today.
374  His Excellency Mr Abdullah Gül, President of Turkey, is escorted from the room.
7. The Moderator:   Can I call the meeting to order please? We will now continue with the working part of the ministerial forum, if it is  not inappropriate to call it like that, which begins with two keynote addresses. It is my great honour and pleasure to call  first on His Excellency Mr Shri Kapil Sibal, who is the Minister of Human Resource Development of India. Mr Sibal, you  have the floor.
8.1 Mr Sibal (Minister of Human Resource Development, India):   Distinguished delegates from Member countries, United Nations bodies and donor agencies, ladies and  gentlemen, it is a signal honour for me to be the keynote speaker in this august forum. We gather here in the aftermath of  the havoc caused by the global economic crisis. Many economies feel that the worst is over, and that the signs of revival  may soon bring cheer. While there are indications that the global economy is picking up and that the economic downturn  may end sooner rather than later, the lives of millions have already been devastated. Those hit hard by the crisis  continue to struggle to lead a life of human dignity and respect. Ironically, those who contributed least to the crisis are the  most severely affected. Some warn us of the “lost decades for development” which could have catastrophic  consequences for both the rich and the poor. In the wake of the crisis, the global economy has witnessed unacceptable  inflation in the price of food items and commodities. This, along with the impact of global warming, has negatively  affected trade. The shrinking demand in the developed world, which continues, has impacted millions dependent on the  buoyancy of export markets. Private capital flows to emerging economies are projected this year by the Institute of  International Finance to be down by 82% from the boom year of 2007. The World Bank described the crisis as a  “development emergency”, with the developing economies losing access to $700 billion. The “lost generation”, with an  additional 1.5 to 2.8 million infant deaths by 2015 might be a stark reality. Annually, over 100 million people are expected  to be tipped into extreme poverty for the duration of the crisis. United Nations Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon recently  warned that the international community “should not lose sight of the challenges and plight of hundreds and hundreds of  millions of the poorest people of the developing countries who have been impacted by this crisis”. The hardship triggered  by the crisis, impacting on the least developed, calls for strong public policies and investment programmes. The present  economic crisis has further strained the public exchequer in many countries, leading to reduced public spending in the  social sector and adversely affecting the progress of their development goals. This jeopardizes progress towards the  internationally agreed development goals, in particular those adopted at the Copenhagen World Summit for Social  Development and the Millennium Summit of the United Nations. As we struggle to survive, the stark reality is that today,  hundreds of thousands of people, particularly women and children, die of malnutrition and a lack of basic health-care  facilities. Almost a billion people around the world are illiterate; more than a billion are struggling to survive on less than a  dollar a day; and one in five children aged between six and eleven are out of school; one in four drop out before  completing the basic education cycle. The uneven and unjust pattern of development in most nations is not conducive to  a prosperous, peaceful and sustainable future. It is here that the United Nations system, and UNESCO in particular, can  play a significant role in helping to evolve a more peaceful, just and equitable world order where every human being can  live with dignity and respect. Despite the crisis, we must continue our efforts towards the Millennium Development Goals  (MDGs). By now we know what works and what does not. Public expenditure and international development aid,  although critical, are no longer the determinants in reaching our goals. The uneven progress of developing societies  towards the MDGs is not only attributable to the scale of physical capital, the quality of natural and human resources and  the content of available modern technology. Of equal importance is the role of enabling institutions and the existing  socio-political climate. The nature and quality of institutions and the level of political commitment play a key role in  making development inputs, including public expenditure and international assistance, more efficacious. The world  economy has undergone many important changes in the last few decades. The following three realities may be noted:  the fact that global economies are truly interdependent, the availability of new and more efficient technologies, and the  need for action on global warming and climate change.
8.2 The last few decades have demonstrated that global economies are truly interdependent and are becoming  increasingly integrated. This is exemplified by cross-border manufacturing processes, business outsourcing and  international trade in services. Consequently, the impact of change in one country or region has global ramifications.  Integrated global economies require globally integrated societies. The “demographic dividend” in some regions must not  be allowed to turn into a “demographic nightmare”. A globalized world will ultimately require the outsourcing of human  skills in regions which will witness a “demographic deficit”. Skilled human capital will have to be imported to certain  regions to sustain economic growth. In that sense, the developed world has a huge stake in ensuring that the human  resources available in large numbers in developing economies is adequately empowered by investing in their education  and skills development. Education for all (EFA) must become a reality through collaborative efforts. To meet the  requirements of EFA, and to provide secondary and vocational training to the youth, we require millions of teachers. The  young may be hungry for learning, but we may not have quality teachers to ignite their minds. The social order must  respect teachers, who all play a pivotal role in building a peaceful and just society. I would like to call upon UNESCO to  commence a worldwide campaign to restore respect for a teacher in society. It would be in fitting if we all took up a  “teachers first campaign” aimed at restoring respect for this noble profession.
8.3 New technologies have changed the way we live and work. They present real challenges but have enormous  potential. Information and communication technologies (ICTs) have transformed the world in the way information can be  accessed. Intellectual inputs and knowledge are available at the student’s doorstep. ICTs can transform societies if used  in the field of education and other social sectors. Technology provides us with a neutral platform to bridge inequities. In  India, technology has been the harbinger of change. The green revolution led to improved farm productivity and an  increase in rural incomes in the late 1960s. Subsequently, use of modern and appropriate technologies through our  national missions for telecommunications, drinking water supply, and so on, have brought considerable improvement to    PMF 1
375  the lives of the poor and marginalized sections of society. Our Science for Equity, Empowerment and Development  (SEED) programme seeks to provide opportunities for motivated scientists and field-level workers to take up action- oriented and location-specific projects aimed at socioeconomic uplifting of the poor and disadvantaged, through  appropriate science and technology interventions, especially in rural areas. I would urge UNESCO to start a similar  global campaign harnessing scientific knowledge for the benefit of society. I am happy to state that we in India have  made major progress in ICTs and have also developed e-learning materials. We would be glad to share this knowledge  with the world community.
8.4 Now I come to the third important development which needs urgent attention: global warming and climate  change. In my view, education, particularly higher education, must inculcate the values of sustainable development in the  minds of our youth. The inhabitants of planet Earth have allotted an average carbon footprint of 1.76 global hectares per  person; developed countries have a footprint far beyond the per capita entitlement. It is ironic that the developed world,  with its higher human development indexes, has had and continues to have unsustainable lifestyles and consumption  patterns. Education, instead of becoming an instrument of sustainable development, has become a major cause for  unsustainable lifestyles. If developing countries adopt and imitate Western styles of production and consumption, it is  estimated that we would need four times the resources planet Earth provides by the year 2055 to sustain us. It is  therefore imperative that developing countries adopt, and adapt to, sustainable lifestyles as they implement their  development strategies. Meanwhile, developed countries will have to reduce their carbon footprint while ushering in more  sustainable lifestyles. What is need is a drastic change in the development paradigm. The international community must  find ways and means to discourage over-consumption in general and wastage in particular. Over-exploitation of  resources to sustain current patterns of consumption does violence to nature. The Mahatma’s message of non-violence  assumes relevance even in the area of sustainable development. He said that “the Earth provides enough for everyone’s  need but not for everyone’s greed”. Considering the significance of his message, I must thank UNESCO, and in  particular the Director-General, Mr Matsuura, and all his colleagues for their interest in our proposal to set up the  Mahatma Gandhi Institute of Education for Peace and Sustainable Development as a category 1 institute of UNESCO in  India. I hope that this proposal will be approved by the General Conference for the institute to spread the message that  unsustainable development will breed conflict, and that sustainable development is a necessary prerequisite for peace.
8.5 The growing recognition of the need for global cooperation to tackle the challenges of development and human  rights for all culminated in the conceptualization and adaptation of the United Nations Millennium Declaration in  September 2000 and the Dakar Framework for Action. The global community realized that the challenges of  development and fostering human rights could brook no further delay and that a global commitment was necessary. The  Millennium Declaration includes eight international development goals that build on agreements made at major United  Nations conferences and that represent commitments on the part of both developed and developing countries to  promoting the quality of life in our global village. The Declaration, endorsed by 189 countries, was then translated into a  road map setting out goals to be reached by 2015. The first seven goals, as we are aware, focus on eradicating extreme  poverty and hunger; achieving universal primary education; promoting gender equality and empowering women;  reducing child mortality; improving maternal health; combating HIV/AIDS, malaria and other diseases; and ensuring  environmental sustainability. The eighth goal, perhaps the most critical of all – as it envisages the translation of the  political commitments of both developed and developing nations into action for achieving the first seven goals, as  endorsed at the International Conference on Financing for Development in Monterrey, Mexico, in March 2002, and again  at the Johannesburg World Summit on Sustainable Development in August 2002 – calls for the creation of a global  partnership for development, with targets for aid, trade, and debt relief. While significant steps have been taken by the  international community during the last decade, regions and individual countries have experienced uneven levels of  progress towards these goals. What is more disturbing is the fact that some regions and developing countries that began  with a large deficit with respect to the goals in 2000 continue to lag far behind others. As we are all aware, at the global  level, significant progress has been made towards achieving the MDGs, particularly those related to education: goals
2  and 3. The concern, however, is the slow pace of realization in most low-income countries. While most countries in  Asia have made headway in reducing extreme poverty and hunger, we see little progress in this in sub-Saharan Africa.  Steady progress in participation in primary education across the globe keeps the hope alive for achieving universal  primary education, a precondition for improving gender equity in secondary education. As I mentioned earlier, apart from  physical capital, natural and human resources and modern technology, the nature of political commitments and the key  role good governance plays in achieving the development goals cannot be minimized. I am happy to inform you that a  significant initiative reflecting the political commitment of the Government of India to universalize eight years of schooling  has recently been translated into action by making elementary education a fundamental right of every child in our country.  With the enactment of the Right of Children to Free and Compulsory Education Act 2009, every child between the ages  of six to 14 years now has the right to free education. The Act, while acknowledging the participation of private education  providers, seeks to ensure that equity and quality go hand in hand with improved access. Regarding universal  elementary education, the Government of India launched in 2001 its flagship Sarva Siksha Abhiyan programme, which is  being implemented by the central Government in partnership with state governments. India recognizes that the task of  nation-building, reducing poverty and ensuring education for all cannot be met without a large stock of human capital  equipped with quality knowledge and skills to foster a knowledge society. Accordingly, the universalization of secondary  education and significant expansion of higher education are priority areas for implementation. Plans have been  delineated and goals set for the growth of high-end scientific and technical institutions, alongside vocational training, to  equip our youth to meet the challenges of a globally competitive environment. Even with impressive growth in India  during the past decade, poverty continues to be concentrated in rural areas and in less-developed states. India has  incorporated integrated sustainable development into its planning process. It is based on an appreciation of the close  links between poverty and environmental degradation and the harmful effects felt by the poor who depend on the land for  their livelihood. Sustainable development for India is embarking on a development path that includes making the right
376  choices for sustainability. Mahatma Gandhi had articulated a similar concern long before the discourse on sustainable  development assumed its present relevance. In the late 1920s, he warned, “God forbid that India should ever take to  industrialism after the manner of the West … If an entire nation of 300 million [at that time it was 300 million, today it is a  billion] took to similar economic exploitation, it would strip the world bare like locusts”.
8.6 While Member States undertake to address the challenges of climate change and sustainable development, it is  necessary to make adequate efforts to find appropriate technological responses to some of these issues. The effective  use of science and technology for building a green society and embracing a green economy cannot be realized without  collective efforts at the global level for the development and transfer of appropriate technologies and skills, both through  North-South and South-South cooperation. Similarly, as I mentioned earlier, Member States also need to seriously  address the issues of unsustainable consumption patterns and habits. A major task for all of us is to further improve  capacity development and public service delivery mechanisms at all levels in order to implement the internationally  agreed development goals. We must also work towards social, economic, and political inclusion and reduction of regional  disparities. This requires concerted efforts to promote greater access for vulnerable sections to basic services,  opportunities for decent work and participation in decision-making. A commitment by governments to enhanced public  expenditure, to setting up transparent, accountable structures, and to ensuring the efficiency of institutions – along with  the use of modern and appropriate technologies combined with partnerships involving the private sector and not-for-profit  institutions – will help us translate our vision and strategies for achieving the MDGs. The task is incomplete, the journey  unfinished. Thank you very much.  (Applause)
9. The Moderator:   I thank the Minister for that extremely rich and thought-provoking speech. I now have the great pleasure of  giving the floor to his fellow alumnus of the University of Delhi, His Excellency Mr George T. Chaponda, who is the  Minister of Education, Science and Technology of Malawi. Mr Chaponda.
10.1 Mr Chaponda (Minister of Education, Science and Technology, Malawi):   John F. Kennedy once said, “The Chinese use two brush strokes to write the word ‘crisis’. One brush stroke  stands for danger, the other for opportunity. In a crisis, be aware of the danger but recognize the opportunity.”  Mr Director General, when you invited me to share my thoughts with this august gathering on the theme before us, I was  truly humbled and, with all humility, I agreed to be part of this debate. In agreeing to make this statement, I could not help  but reflect on what John F. Kennedy said. Mr Chair, ladies and gentlemen, our world is going through one of the worst  economic crises in living memory. Societies are being weakened, and the most vulnerable ones will bear the brunt of the  crisis. Mr Chair, ladies and gentlemen, when the Millennium Development Goals (MDGs) were drawn up in September
2000, no one really foresaw this crisis. Neither did UNESCO foresee this crisis when the current Medium-Term Strategy
(2008-2013), anchored in the MDGs and the entire range of internationally agreed development goals, was being drawn  up. Should we therefore conclude that the MDGs and the UNESCO Medium-Term Strategy have been overtaken by  events and should be discarded? The answer is obviously an emphatic “no”. The current crisis cannot be weathered on  the strength of fixing the financial and banking systems alone. It is significant that the G20 countries and, most recently,  the United Nations General Assembly have recognized that investment in economic and financial recovery must be  complemented by investment in social services, of which education, the sciences, culture, communication and  information are under the aegis of UNESCO. Mr Chair, ladies and gentlemen, investing in the social services is a moral  and ethical obligation for all of us because it represents the global public good. The investment will be of much relief to  those of our communities, the poor, who bear the brunt of the impact of the crisis. According to World Bank statistics,  investment in the social sector is sound because it yields returns of around 10% to 15%. According to UNESCO,  investing in social services is essential for the fulfilment of human rights for present and future generations, and for  ensuring stability and peace. Mr Chair, ladies and gentlemen, in my view, the key words in this forum are “investment”  and “action”. To me, the investment referred to here is holistic. We have to invest our time, our energy and, of course,  our resources in order to maintain the positive trends and achievements in the attainment of the MDGs which,  unfortunately, are slipping away dramatically with more than 100 million people over recent months having joined the  ranks of the poor. However, the crisis should not be allowed to erode the social sectors which are at the core of  development. We must therefore act now. In my view, UNESCO is well-placed to offer such action, be it in the shape of  advocacy, advice, monitoring trends or providing an impartial picture of the tangible impacts of the crisis. As the Director- General has reminded us, UNESCO was born in the wake of the cataclysm of the Second World War to aide the  reconstruction of society and economies through action in education, science, technology, culture, and communication  and information. Today, as the world again confronts a major crisis, we expect UNESCO to take action in mobilizing its  resources and networks to assist its Member States to meet the MDG targets. In this respect, we urge and appeal to  donors to contribute generously to UNESCO, even in the current situation, in order for UNESCO to realize its objectives.  Allow me now to comment specifically on the MDGs in relation to education, the sciences, culture, communication and  information.
10.2 Relating, Mr Chair, to the MDGs and education, it is true that in investing in education we shall be tackling  goals 1, 2, 3 and 6: ending poverty and hunger, achieving universal primary education, promoting gender equality and  combating HIV/AIDS. History has demonstrated that investment in education always yields positive results, including  poverty reduction. It has been demonstrated that each extra year of schooling boosts per capita GDP by 4% to 6%. That  is why a political will coupled with targeted investments have yielded widespread progress in primary school enrolment in  many Member States, including Malawi. The challenge now is to keep those children in school and to ensure that they  receive quality education. This calls for a continued political will, donor commitments to the Doha and Dakar agreements,  and the acceleration of the Fast-Track Initiative (FTI) arrangements on Member States in need. Then there is the impact  of the crisis on gender equality. We cannot afford a slowdown on gender equality. Not only is gender equality and    PMF 1
377  women’s empowerment an important development goal in its own right, it is also a prerequisite for achieving other  development goals and facilitating more robust socio-economic development. There is a growing body of hard evidence  to supports this. For example, investment in girls’ education has a direct effect on the economy, improving productivity,  reducing the dependency burden and increasing GDP. It also has an effect on fertility and on child survival rates. It has  been argued that failing to achieve gender equality goals in education can result in an estimated loss of up to a third of
1% in annual per capita output growth. Despite small victories, HIV/AIDS continues to take a terrible toll, threatening to  reverse all the economic and social gains we have achieved over the years. While antiretroviral drugs are adding years  to people’s lives, the need for treatment still outpaces the available supply. Since HIV has no known cure for now,  education remains the most viable tool to combat the pandemic.
10.14 Regarding the natural sciences, Mr Chair, ladies and gentlemen, the Millennium Declaration aims to protect our  common environment, and the MDGs focus on environmental sustainability with strong implications for UNESCO’s  Education for Sustainable Development (ESD) and water-related programmes. The relevant MDGs are goals 1, 6 and 7:  ending poverty and hunger, combating HIV/AIDS, malaria and other diseases and ensuring environmental sustainability.  Science provides the critical underpinning for innovation, technological development and economic prosperity. The  sustainable livelihood of the world’s population will always rely heavily on science, technology and innovation in the  following fields: climate change science; biotechnologies and industries; life and health sciences; earth system science;  and energy resources. Because of the volatility of fuel prices, which affect all nations, and declining reserves of fossil  fuels, action in science should also focus on renewable energies. These include solar, wind, geothermal and bio-energy,  and ocean waves and tides. UNESCO, using its core competencies, and in collaboration with its partners, must work on  multiple sources of energy and efficient energy utilization. Regarding the MDGs and the social and human sciences,  Mr Chair, ladies and gentlemen, the Millennium Declaration strongly emphasizes the role of human rights and the values  of freedom, justice, solidarity and shared responsibility. In recent decades, there has been increasing insecurity of life  and property around the world. The main causes of conflict include poverty and the inequitable distribution of resources,  and the denial of basic rights, religious intolerance, breakdowns in communication and the “culture of war”. The  ingredients for the maintenance of peace and security for any nation include economic prosperity, intercultural dialogue  and good channels of communication. Regarding the MDGs and culture, Mr Chair, ladies and gentlemen, the Millennium  Declaration addresses the culture of peace, the dialogue among civilizations and cultural diversity. It has been pointed  out that there are no specific culture-related MDGs, but I wish to differ. To me, cultural diversity is often the hallmark of all  nations. Hence, cultural activities in each nation should, in principle, promote the peace and security of all nations.  UNESCO has already put into operation the principle of a culture of peace in view of its importance in inducing peoples  to build peace, dialogue and acceptance of others. Similarly, the preservation of the memory of the world and the world  cultural heritage, both tangible and intangible, will render great services to the people, who are in great need of  preserving their identity in the face of all the dangers that threaten us, the current financial crisis included. Another  important area that we may wish to engage in is that of “culture for development”. The evidence is now clear that cultural  industries stimulate economic development and strengthen social cohesion, which is in line with MDG 1: ending poverty  and hunger. Regarding the MDGs and communication and information, Mr Chair, ladies and gentlemen, the promotion of  information and communication technologies (ICTs), freedom of the press and the right of public access to information is  strongly advocated in the Millennium Declaration. The relevant MDGs are goals 1, 2 and 8: end poverty and hunger,  achieving universal primary education and developing a global partnership for development. However, I would argue that  communication and information is a cross-cutting issue. We cannot hope to achieve our MDG targets if we do not invest  in ICTs. Freedom to acquire and transmit information is a key vector of political stability and economic development.  Based on the Declaration of Principals of the World Summit on Information Society, Member States must be assisted to  bolster a vibrant media environment and accessible information structures. In order to bridge the digital divide, efforts to  empower communities through technology transfers, notably in Africa, should be intensified. To me, the promotion of free  and pluralistic information and communication media and the use of ICTs is not a mere luxury but an inseparable part of  democracy and fundamental human rights and freedoms, and the highway to achieving the MDGs. In fact, ICTs are  critical in providing low-cost platforms for accessing information and knowledge which, in turn, overcome resource  constraints. Ladies and gentlemen, ICTs are a financial and economic booster because they are a distinct and a fast- growing sector, enhancing human productivity and leading to immediate productivity gains; and indeed, during an  economic meltdown, ICTs prove to be cost-effective, efficient and critical tools for education, cultural and scientific  information exchange, and the building of knowledge societies.
10.3 Mr Chair, Honourable Ministers, distinguished ladies and gentlemen, if we use the current economic crisis as an  excuse to ignore investment in the social services of education, the sciences, culture and communication, we will be  doing ourselves and our future generations irreparable damage. The price to pay is too huge to contemplate. Let us act  now. I thank you for your attention.  (Applause)
11.1 The Moderator:   I thank the Minister for his extremely useful and thought-provoking intervention. We now begin the forum or  debate proper, and I am asked to remind you of the ground rules. There are to be no more speeches with prepared texts.  Those who have such statements, I think, have been asked to submit them to the Secretariat and they will be posted on  the website. But the idea of this is to have a genuine interactive discussion in which no intervention is to last longer than  three minutes. I was asked whether we should use the music torture, which apparently has been very effective in the  General Conference. This involves turning on, when three minutes have been reached, music which I am sure is of very  appropriate cultural and geographical diversity, but which starts at a very low volume and rapidly rises to a crescendo  until the speaker very soon becomes inaudible. I said that I felt that we were a civilized group of people who probably  should not need recourse to such drastic measures. But it is my nuclear deterrent that I keep in reserve if Ministers and
378  other distinguished delegates do not observe the rules. The other problem that I see with this debate is that the topic we  have been given to discuss, in a rather short time and involving a rather large number of people, is itself very broad:  “investing out of the crisis”; and I think we should make an effort to focus our attention on those aspects of the crisis and  those ways of investing to take us out of it that are of direct relevance to the work of UNESCO. I think that would be more  helpful to the General Conference, to the Executive Board and, of course, to the incoming Director-General, as she  works out her own priorities for the Organization. Sorry if I am presuming something that will take place in a few days’  time, but I think we all know where we stand. So I would have liked, and I may still try, to segment this very large topic  and to encourage discussion for short periods of time on different aspects of it. But I know that a number of ministers  have other engagements and have asked to take the floor at an early stage, so I will call on them first, albeit reminding  them that this does not in any way exempt them from the time limit.
11.2 It is my honour and pleasure to call first the Minister of Culture of The former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia,  Ms Elizabeta Kanceska-Milevska. You have the floor.
12.1 Ms Kanceska-Milevska (The former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia):   It is my great honour and a real pleasure to salute this notable gathering and I welcome UNESCO’s initiative of  holding the Plenary Ministerial Forum within the framework of the General Conference on a quite recent and significant  topic. I believe that this forum will provide an opportunity for an exchange of experience and opinions that will clearly  emphasize and confirm our willingness to cooperate and incorporate of the process of systematically resolving of the  problems we are faced with. As the Minister of Culture of the Republic of Macedonia, in my presentation I will point out  the importance of investing in the promotion and affirmation of culture, which plays a significant role in the process of  achieving the internationally agreed development goals, as well as the efforts of the Government of the Republic of  Macedonia in the reform process undertaken in education, the sciences and information technology.
12.2 Culture is an area that demands attention and it should not be neglected at any cost. The positive or negative  behaviour of the state towards its own culture is manifest through different instruments at many levels. The dimension  and design of those instruments depends more on the awareness of the environment for the importance of culture than  on the progress level of the culture itself. The available potential and goals that should be achieved, in other words,  depends on what is commonly referred to as cultural policy. In the present day, opinion reveals that lasting development  cannot be sustained in the culture; or more precisely, the artistic activities in the diversity are not taken into consideration.  In Europe today, we see an entire assembly of cultural transformations which contribute to social, economic and political  change. Culture plays a major role in this orientation, not only in terms of improved quality of life but also as an objective  factor in production and as an advantage in favour of the positive development of people and state alike.
12.8 If you wanted culture to gain a prominent position in the state system, it would be necessary to place it at the  very heart of that system. The task of the modern government is to stimulate public and private research in culture in all  its forms and variants. Culture may provide significant contributions to the state’s economic and social well-being, i.e. it  may represent a useful branch of the economy.
13. The Moderator:   I am going to be very strict about the time limit. I thank you for your remarks and I have the pleasure now of  calling on the Minister of Education of Azerbaijan, His Excellency Mr Misir Mardanov.
15. The Moderator:   The interpreters were not ready. I will have to ask you to start your intervention again. You will be accorded the  time.
16.1 Mr Mardanov (Minister of Education, Azerbaijan)  (address delivered in Azeri; English text provided by the delegation):   Mr Chairperson, ladies and gentlemen, first of all I would like to thank the organizers of this Forum on behalf of  the Government of Azerbaijan. Recently, the world has been experiencing one of the most difficult periods in its history,  the financial crisis having taken on a global character and negatively affected all aspects of public life. This impact has  not bypassed UNESCO and its priority directions either, creating obstacles to achieving the objectives of various  programmes within the framework of UNESCO. With respect to the impact of the crisis on our country, I would like to  note that Azerbaijan has managed to minimize the after-effects of the global crisis on its economy, and could even  achieve economic growth. In 2009, the national economy has maintained its momentum and GDP growth at present is
4%; and the non-oil sector has reached its highest level, having increased by 16% in the last five years. Due to deliberate  economic policy and the tangible results of reform, Azerbaijan is considered by the World Bank as one of the world’s  reformer countries. A number of measures have been taken in the fields of education, culture, science, information and  communication within the framework of fruitful cooperation with UNESCO over the past two years, and the ongoing  economic development in Azerbaijan has resulted in widespread reforms being implemented in the field of education.  Education is second on the list of state budget expenditure and, despite the after-effects of the economic crisis in the  world, this year the Azerbaijani Government has allocated funds exceeding $298 million to the development of education.  Furthermore, successful work has been carried out in the fields of science and culture in recent years, with a national  strategy and relevant state programmes adopted to develop those fields. Baku has hosted high-level events such as  international conferences on the Silk Road project and on intercultural dialogue as a basis for peace and sustainable  development in Europe and its neighbouring relations, and the first International Mugham Festival within the last two  years.    PMF 1
16.2 As for ways of solving problems, I think that given the global character of the financial crisis, it demands a global  approach. The problems cannot be solved unilaterally at the level of States. In this regard, the great responsibility falls on  UNESCO. The Organization has a huge responsibility to commit itself to the training of specialist scientists and education  staff while rendering technical assistance and capitalizing on participation in global events. Therefore, we support  maintaining the stability of UNESCO’s budget and the continuation of UNESCO’s efforts in all of its spheres of  competence. UNESCO’s funds should serve to achieve the Millennium Development Goals and active measures should  be taken in such fields as poverty reduction and improving the level of education in the least developed countries.  Besides which, the reconsideration of administrative expenses of the Organization should be taken into account.
17. The Moderator:   Thank you and I have now the great pleasure of calling on the Minister of Higher Education and Research of  Sweden, Mr Tobias Krantz.
18. Mr Krantz (Sweden):   Thank you very much, Mr Chairperson. I think it is important that during this economic crisis we continue to  invest in education and training. Among the different measures to take in our effort to reduce the risk of a prolonged  economic downturn, we should give priority to those that improve long-term economic development. It could, for example,  be extended investment and research in development and more focus on vocational training, particularly for adults, to  meet the increase in demand for post-secondary education that could be expected in the present economic situation.  More important however is that during these difficult times we can maintain high standards of quality in the learning  conditions that we offer our pupils, students and adult students. Having said that, I would especially like to emphasize the  importance of having teachers with the latest knowledge both in the subjects taught and in didactics. I think it is of the  utmost importance that we keep to our agreement to remove the remaining obstacles to free movement of knowledge  and knowledge developers, to extend the possibilities for studying and working abroad, and to improve the labour market  for researchers and teachers. Reform of the university sector and mutual recognition of qualifications are cornerstones of  this freedom, which are of great importance to our chances of leaving the present difficult economic times stronger than  we were when we entered the crisis. Extensive exchanges of experience in, for example, vocational training, school  development and the special challenges that teachers and school managers will face if the crisis becomes deeper, can  help us deal with the situation. It is great that we jointly review the conditions for improving the competencies and roles of  teachers and school managers for in this time of great difficulties and challenges. The present crisis in the financing of  development, including in the social sectors, was not created in Africa but it is heavily affecting Africa in particular. It is  important to make developing countries less dependent on external financing. Put differently, this is a call for more  domestic mobilization of resources for critical social sectors such as education and health. The evidence shows that a  time of crisis is not the time to cut expenditure on long-term research and science and technology investment. Today’s  education and research is tomorrow’s welfare. Thank you.
19. The Moderator:   Thank you very much, the first delegate to manage to finish within his time. I congratulate him. I call now on the  Minister of Education of the Dominican Republic, His Excellency Mr Milanio Paredes.
(20.1) M.Paredes (République dominicaine) (traduit de l’espagnol) :   Monsieur le Président, Monsieur le Secrétaire général, Messieurs les Ministres. Ce débat nous invite à une analyse  rétrospective du domaine de l’éducation, à renouer avec cette dimension éthique sur laquelle fut fondée l’école telle que nous  la connaissons aujourd’hui. À l’origine, l’école a été pensée et créée pour éduquer à la citoyenneté, et non pour fabriquer des  médecins, des avocats ou des ingénieurs. Le but était de faire de ces enfants et adolescents des personnes de valeur. Avec  le temps, le caractère utilitaire de notre système économique et politique a pris le pas sur cet aspect : nous sommes pris  aujourd’hui dans un cercle vicieux. Nous investissons de moins en moins – et moins bien – dans l’éducation pour privilégier la  croissance économique. Peu importe si le niveau baisse, seuls comptent les recettes fiscales et l’équilibre des comptes  nationaux afin d’attirer plus d’investisseurs, quand bien même on investit moins dans l’éducation. Dans les cycles extrêmes de  l’économie, nous nous intéressons alors de nouveau à l’éducation et affirmons que la population n’est pas bien formée. Les
380  budgets de nos pays ne sont que des pièces comptables et non des instruments au service du développement, surtout s’il  s’agit de développement durable.
(20.2) Nous nous sommes réunis entre Ministres de l’économie et des finances afin de résoudre cette contradiction. Nous y  accordons de l’importance et l’Organisation des États ibéro-américains a déjà engagé des efforts en ce sens.
(20.3) Je souscris aux propos tenus par l’ancienne Ministre du Mozambique à l’occasion d’une conférence organisée à  Bonn sur le développement durable et l’éducation : plus qu’une insolvabilité financière, la crise mondiale engendre une  insolvabilité morale à l’échelle universelle qui bouleverse nos sociétés. J’estime qu’il faut remonter aux racines du problème,  autrement dit fonder l’école sur des valeurs solides, les valeurs centrales de ce nouvel humanisme dont nous avons parlé, une  nouvelle citoyenneté, une nouvelle solidarité et un enseignement fondé sur ces principes. Je vous remercie, Monsieur le  Président.
21. The Moderator:   Thank you, this is excellent. That was only two minutes, so I really congratulate you. I now have the particular  pleasure of calling on the Minister of Education, Arts and Culture of the beautiful country where I have the great honour  of being a temporary resident, Austria. Madam Claudia Schmied.
22.1 Ms Schmied (Austria):   Thank you very much for this nice introduction. I just want to stress some of the topics the speakers already  mentioned. We do know, ladies and gentlemen, that in a period of economic crisis people tend to reduce expenditure on  education. The right to education, a human right, is threatened. We also know that there is a direct link between  education and the economic development of our countries. So there is a fundamental requirement in education, and it is  important to respect the diversity, the values, knowledge, languages and traditions of all cultures, peoples and minorities.  I would like to inform you that in Austria, an in-depth reform of the education system is under way. We are focusing on  improving teacher education and on introducing national educational standards into the general education system. More  teachers with migrant backgrounds will be integrated into the system in Austria. I think it is very important to have this  intercultural dialogue within our societies. Investing in education and in the arts and culture plays, as many of the  speakers have already said, a crucial part in the development of our countries, and I just have to say we must invest; and  we have to act now, even if there is this economic crisis that we all are speaking about. Thank you very much.
23. The Moderator:   Thank you very much indeed. I now have the honour to call on His Excellency Mr Abel Prieto, Minister of Culture  of Cuba.
(24.1) M. Prieto (Cuba) (traduit de l’espagnol) :   Merci beaucoup, Monsieur le Président. Monsieur le Directeur général, Messieurs les Ministres : la déclaration du  Ministre de l’éducation de la République dominicaine me semble très importante. Nous traversons selon moi une période de  grave crise économique mais aussi de grave crise éthique. Et je pense que l’UNESCO doit et peut aider efficacement à  trouver des solutions à la crise, en prenant en compte les démunis et les plus vulnérables, sans égoïsme. Jusqu’à présent, les  nombreux spécialistes du sujet l’abordent sans placer l’être humain au centre de leur analyse. Nous nous devons de placer  l’être humain au centre de toute action visant à faire face à la crise.
(24.2) Je crois que le concept de consommation irresponsable, qui engendre le gaspillage, est à la mode. Or, ce modèle  égoïste prouve actuellement qu’il n’est pas viable, même du point de vue de l’espèce et de sa survie. Il existe, je crois, des  programmes peu onéreux qui peuvent produire des résultats remarquables avec très peu de ressources. Cuba a de nouveau  offert la méthode d’alphabétisation que le Directeur général, M. Matsuura, connaît bien et qui a été appliquée avec succès  dans 28 pays. On peut accomplir de grandes choses avec peu de moyens. Il faut, je pense, travailler dans un esprit de  solidarité. Il faut changer nos façons de voir pour des points de vue plus solidaires. Cette approche n’est pas rhétorique, elle  peut certainement enrichir notre action et la rendre efficace. Merci.
25. The Moderator:   Thank you very much indeed. I now have the honour to call on His Excellency Mr Branislav Micunović, the  Minister of Culture, Sports and Media of Montenegro.
26.1 Mr Micunović (Montenegro):   Thank you. Mr Chairperson, Mr Director-General, Ministers, Excellencies, ladies and gentlemen, allow me to  express my contentment with this UNESCO initiative to organize an additional meeting for ministers and other heads of  delegations to join, within the framework of this forum, in constructive dialogue. As President Vujanović stated at the    PMF 1
381  opening ceremony, Montenegro, as one of the youngest UNESCO Member States, since March 2007, has had very  intensive cooperation which will, I am sure, continue in the same manner. Montenegro pays great attention to UNESCO’s  normative work, and from the moment we joined the UNESCO family we ratified all the conventions. Taking into account  the importance of these legal instruments, we should all continue our cooperation in the process of their implementation.  South-East Europe and its recent history remind us of the importance of and the common responsibility we have in the  safeguarding and promotion of UNESCO’s principles, particularly through regional cooperation. The UNESCO Office in  Venice has a very important role in reinforcing this cooperation through different initiatives, in particular in the field of  cultural heritage, building bridges towards a shared future. Considering their successful impact, we will continue to  support initiatives that promote regional cooperation and to further their implementation.
26.2 The global crisis should be seen as a chance to promote even stronger principles of democracy and the rule of  law through education, the sciences, culture, communication and information. I am convinced that we will widen the  scope of our cooperation and continue our mission to promote UNESCO’s principles in all our future projects. Thank you  for your attention.
27. The Moderator:   Thank you very much indeed. I now have the honour to call on His Excellency Mr Andreas Demetriou, the  Minister of Education and Culture of Cyprus.
28.1 Mr Demetriou (Cyprus):   In Cyprus, we have a systematic programme for enhancing tertiary education. In fact, in recent years we have  moved from very few to six universities and, as a result, we now manage to have about 75% of our secondary school  graduates graduating from some kind of tertiary education. We are in the process of developing bilateral relationships  with many other countries to support research, development, innovation and the development of universities. In the last, I  would say, six months, we have come to agreements with a few African countries, including Kenya and Lesotho. In fact,  we expect to receive a visit from the Ministers of Education of Kenya and Lesotho to provide support for the development  of new universities in those countries. We also provide scholarships for studies in Cyprus in several fields where we have  some expertise, such as mathematics and science education, to countries that need this support. And as a member of  the European Union, especially since we will be presiding over the Union in 2012, we plan, in cooperation with the  Commission, especially the Commissioner for Education, to develop schemes for the development of university  education in countries that need it, especially in Africa. In this context, we are in contact with the Association of the  African Universities to provide the necessary financial support and expertise. Thank you very much.
29. The Moderator:   Thank you very much indeed. It is suggested that delegates who wish to take the floor can raise their  nameplates. It is now my great pleasure to call on Mr James Leach, who is the President of the National Endowment for  the Humanities in the United States of America.
30.1 Mr Leach (United States of America):   Thank you. Mr Chairperson, Ministers, the current economic crisis has many ramifications but I have been asked  to intervene briefly to suggest that the United States remains committed to its international commitments, particularly  support for basic education and science. Indeed, the Obama Administration has pledged over a quarter of a billion  dollars to basic education in Africa alone this year. In the coming years, the intent is to build on this basic education  format with increased online efforts in the development of robust courses that can be designed for higher education  online. The Administration is also committed significantly to increase support for basic science – in fact, 3% of the GDP  of the United States – on the assumption that we are at a juncture when we are learning more about ourselves and about  the capacity to advance medical breakthroughs than at any time in history. Unlike gold or other commodities, science  cannot be put in a vault. It is the most shared commodity on earth, so this development of research efforts is designed to  be shared with all the peoples of the earth.
30.2 As for the profoundest issue of all, which is peace, the United States is committed to information-sharing with all  the peoples of the earth. It is our assumption that shared learning is more likely to lead to pacific relations between  countries than any other circumstance. A “twittering world”, after all, is a communicative place, a global neighbourhood  more likely to live with itself. Thank you.
(32) M. Al Joufi (Yémen) (traduit de l’arabe) :  Merci beaucoup. Il ne fait aucun doute que les plans de l’UNESCO et les plans de développement social ont été durement  touchés. Le monde s’est beaucoup occupé du crédit immobilier et du sauvetage des établissements de crédit immobilier, mais  pas autant des organismes de développement social et des institutions éducatives. En République du Yémen, cette situation a  eu deux incidences concrètes : premièrement, la contraction du volume de l’aide financière fournie par les pays donateurs à la  suite d’engagements contraignants et, deuxièmement, la diminution du budget alloué à l’éducation et à l’enseignement. C’est  pourquoi nous avons fait tout notre possible au Ministère de l’éducation et de l’enseignement pour harmoniser l’action menée  dans ce domaine, notamment au niveau des efforts déployés par les donateurs. Nous avons réussi à mener à bien les  processus de changement et d’adaptation, ainsi qu’à harmoniser les efforts faits par les donateurs, afin que tous ces efforts,  de même que le budget de l’État, servent à la mise en œuvre d’un seul et même plan, le but étant d’atteindre des objectifs  illimités avec des moyens très limités. Nous réaffirmons énergiquement que l’UNESCO doit jouer un rôle important dans ce  domaine en favorisant une plus grande harmonisation des efforts déployés par les donateurs, en mobilisant un plus large  appui en faveur des pays pauvres, et en braquant les projecteurs sur les questions sociales et le développement social  comme cela a été fait pour le crédit immobilier et le sauvetage des organismes de financement et du secteur privé. Je suis  profondément convaincu que l’UNESCO doit étendre son rôle, notamment en rappelant les obligations des grands pays, qu’il  s’agisse du G-8 ou du G-20, et en contribuant au renforcement des capacités en vue d’une utilisation optimale des moyens  disponibles. Merci.
33. The Moderator:   Thank you very much indeed. Now I call on the Minister from the Democratic Republic of the Congo,  Mr Kambale.
34.1 M. Bahekwa (République démocratique du Congo) :   Il est incontestable que la culture est le socle de tout développement. La culture est une source d’énergie  mentale et sociale permettant de faire face à toute difficulté, mais aussi aux crises que traversent les secteurs de la vie  nationale et internationale. À notre avis, l’UNESCO se situe au cœur du système international grâce à la culture. C’est  pourquoi nous pensons qu’elle devrait aider davantage et réellement les États à assurer la sauvegarde et la promotion  de leur patrimoine culturel, matériel et immatériel, notamment en apportant son appui aux États en développement pour  qu’ils se dotent des infrastructures et des industries culturelles qui garantiront la contribution de la culture au  développement économique et social.
34.2 Excellences, notre modeste contribution, en République démocratique du Congo, consiste en des mesures pour  lutter contre la crise. Nous avons mis sur pied une structure particulière qui a pour mission de soutenir la création  culturelle et la création artistique dans notre pays en situation de post-conflit, quand bien même le fonds qui est mis à la  disposition des artistes n’est pas véritablement suffisant. C’est toutefois un moyen qui permet de lutter un tant soit peu  contre les effets de la crise.
34.3 Enfin, nous pensons que les États membres de l’UNESCO résisteront mieux à la crise dans le cadre d’une  solidarité basée sur la culture. Voilà ma modeste contribution, Excellences.
35. The Moderator:   Thank you very much indeed. Mr Sibal has asked to respond to some of the remarks that have already been  made. I am very happy to give him the floor, but he will subject to the same three-minute constraint as everyone else.
36.1 Mr Sibal (India):   Thank you very much. I think that what we have heard today is that each country has been impacted by the  economic crisis somewhat differently. Therefore, to my mind, the issue that arises, and UNESCO’s role in that context, is  the one that we need to look at: what can UNESCO do in the context of the differentiated responses of individual States?  And I believe what UNESCO can do is a threefold exercise. First, I think UNESCO can set up so-called “open-source  platforms” in the area of knowledge and technology. What happens is that countries sometimes do not have an  appropriate forum to access the knowledge and technologies needed by those countries for solutions, and much of the  knowledge and technology around the world is intellectual property which is owned by somebody or another. But there  are lots of people around the world who would like to share knowledge, and without having to look for any profit or gain.  What UNESCO can do is create a platform – or several platforms – and if a particular Member State requests help on a  particular area, an individual platform can be created that is open source and anybody around the world, whoever is  interested in helping that country, can actually come out and offer help. This can be in the area of knowledge as well as  technology. That is point number one. Point number two is content of education. The content of education also differs  from country to country, and there are lots of people around the world who are willing to actually share content. Again,  this can be done through UNESCO, depending on which country needs what. Somebody might need a course in  mathematics; somebody else might need a course in English language. My time is running out so I do not want to really  elaborate on that, but that is point number two. Point number three is skills development. Lots of countries need a lot of  skills. Their economies are differently placed so they need different skills to deal with different kinds of challenges within  the economy. Now these can be provided, again, through platforms of this nature. People around the world are willing to  share skills, but they do not have a platform to move forward on. So we need to think platforms for knowledge,  technology, education content and skills. My time has run out. Thank you.
37. The Moderator:   I will give the same opportunity after a few more interventions to Mr Chaponda. Next I have the honour to call on  the Vice-Minister for Foreign Affairs of Italy, Senator Alfredo Mantica.    PMF 1
38.1 M. Mantica (Italie) :   Monsieur le Président, notre pays est profondément convaincu que la promotion de la culture, de la science et  de l’éducation constitue un pivot précieux pour le processus de développement auquel on ne peut renoncer, surtout en  ce moment caractérisé par une crise sévère du point de vue financier, économique et parfois aussi social. La valeur  ajoutée que le mandat de l’UNESCO a donnée aux gouvernants de la planète réside dans la capacité de la culture, de  l’éducation et de la science d’unir les peuples, en tant qu’éléments de force enracinés dans la conscience des gens,  capables de faire progresser harmonieusement tout un chacun. En effet, l’expérience récente du premier Forum mondial  de l’UNESCO sur la culture et les industries culturelles, qui s’est tenu en Italie à Monza, il y a quelques semaines, a  témoigné de la puissance économique que les industries culturelles et créatives possèdent. Cette initiative a représenté  une vaste plate-forme de rencontres et d’échanges entre créateurs et réalisateurs, entre partenariats public et privé,  entre pays du Nord et du Sud de la planète.
38.2 L’Italie a accueilli avec enthousiasme la proposition de l’UNESCO d’organiser le Forum dans le cadre de la  merveilleuse Villa Reale de Monza. La première édition de cet important rendez-vous a été cette année consacrée au  thème « Créativité, innovation et excellence : de l’artisanat à l’industrie du design et de la mode ». Y ont pris part des  intellectuels, des chefs d’entreprise, des institutions internationales, des entrepreneurs, des experts et des représentants  institutionnels provenant du monde entier.
38.3 Monsieur le Président, stimuler la croissance signifie donc renforcer les investissements, surtout dans ces  secteurs stratégiques pour la création de mécanismes de développement vertueux, respectueux de l’environnement et  de la diversité culturelle, et pour cela même, durables. Je vous remercie.
39. Le Modérateur :   Merci beaucoup. Je donne maintenant la parole au Ministre de l’enseignement supérieur de l’Afrique du Sud,  Son Excellence M. Nzimande Blade.
40.1 Mr Nzimande (South Africa):   Thank you very much. I am the Minister of Basic Education. Mr Chairperson, the Director-General has quite  correctly pointed out that we should look at the origin and consequences of the global economic meltdown and, in a  sense, we are all agreed that it does not emanate from the developing countries but rather from the developed countries.  We would imagine that among the contributing factors would be the issues of poor governance, lack of a regulatory  framework and so on but there is no doubt in our minds that the consequences of such an inability to manage and  regulate the economy in those countries has had a very negative impact on them. Therefore one should basically say  that UNESCO, in determining the way forward, should ensure, given the goodwill that has emanated – we have heard  the United States of America and Turkey make important contributions and offers in relation to development of the Africa  initiative and China, yesterday, spoke about its support, so did France and Australia – that we monitor the kind of  promises, pledges and undertakings by the developed countries in this regard. But in the context of South Africa, the  Director-General also spoke about the importance of infrastructure, and we would want to say and share with you the  fact that South Africa has set aside $785 billion for its infrastructure development programme and provided an expanded  public works programme, which provides opportunities for job creation in the country. Importantly, and perhaps  interestingly, South Africa has created a mechanism where, as a result of the global financial meltdown, rather than  retrenching its workers it has provided a subsidy to industries and companies to retain and reskill their workers. It is  important that we try to create and sustain jobs in this regard.
40.2 The Minister from India has correctly pointed out that the environment is important and sustainable development  is important. Our view is that it should not only be confined to, or focused particularly on tertiary institutions. I think it  should be embedded in the curriculum right from basic education so that the responsibility of a sustainable environment  is embedded in the psyche of all our children, so that we can produce good global citizens.
40.3 We in South Africa are committed to ensuring that we do not compromise education in terms of access. We  have increased and expanded access for our learners. We now have seven million of our learners attending non-fee- paying schools. That constitutes 60% of the learner population, and we have set aside $2.2 billion for tertiary institutions.  I thought we should indeed share that. But I would like to conclude, Mr Chairperson, by seconding the point made by the  Minister of India, quite correctly, about moderation in terms of consumption.
41. The Moderator:   I am very sorry but you have completed your three minutes. Maybe you will have another opportunity. I will call  now on His Excellency Susil Premajayantha, who is the Minister of Education of Sri Lanka.
42. Mr Premajayantha (Sri Lanka):   Mr Chairperson, we believe that in a time of financial crisis, in order to make the best use of limited available  resources to attain the internationally agreed development goals through education, the sciences, culture,  communication and information, the following actions would be most appropriate: first, enhance synergies between each  of the concerned ministries in order to optimize the limited resources, second, inspire and motivate the cadres of  available teachers to deliver better, and provide appropriate capacity-building mechanisms for training and sharing best  practices, together with tested universal modules and guides for use in teaching and learning, and basic minimum  facilities, particularly in marginalized and poverty-stricken areas, third, enhance private/public sector relationships by  encouraging corporate social responsibility programmes in the related sectors, fourth, improve synergy between  multilateral or bilateral stakeholders and partners to avoid any multiplication of faults in their delivery mechanisms  pertinent to education, sciences, culture and communication, fifth, concentrate on the key area of better engaging human  capital productivity by building the capacities of teaching and training institutions, and sixth, improve governance and  reduce corruption to ensure cost-effective delivery of services to the needy. Thank you.
43. The Moderator:   Thank you very much indeed. I now call on Mr Jindřich Fryč, Minister of Education and Sports of the Czech  Republic.
44.1 Mr Fryč (Czech Republic):   Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to the react to the ministerial forum debate with another issue  which is important from our point of view: partnerships between schools and employers, which has become an  increasingly debated topic in the Czech Republic in connection with the economic crisis. In any debate on this topic, a  wide spectrum of issues arises from questions on a fundamental level which relate to the very meaning and goals of  such partnerships, the motivations of the partners, to the form and content of the partnerships, and to practical matters  and examples of good practice. When considering these issues, we should be aware of current trends and shifts in  economic policies, the global marketplace, the boom in the service sector, the area of managing workforce diversity, new  technology and more. Therefore, we are convinced that the theme has to be approached not only on the institutional  level, in the individual schools and businesses, but also on the political level. As we all know, most twenty-first century  competencies are either supported or enhanced by information and communication technologies (ICTs). For most young  people, schools are the only place where such competencies and skills can be acquired. Accordingly, governments  should make efforts to properly identify and incorporate these skills into educational standards. While planning this  progress, the participation of both economic and social institutions is critical in order to avoid the risks of this process  being irrelevant. Although in many countries, access to ICTs does not seem to be a problem any longer, the question of  the maximum benefit that young people can gain from the use of ICTs according to their economic, cultural and social  status is still an issue in most. Thank you for your attention.
(46) M. Al-Khuzaay (Iraq) (traduit de l’arabe) :   Merci, Monsieur le Président. Je voudrais très brièvement évoquer les deux points suivants : premièrement, notre  participation effective à l’élaboration des politiques et des activités donnera à l’UNESCO un formidable élan qui l’aidera à  enrichir et à développer ses programmes ainsi qu’à accélérer leur mise en œuvre, ce qui profitera aussi bien aux États  participants qu’à l’Organisation elle-même. Le fait de se réunir tous les deux ans ne suffit pas pour promouvoir une  compréhension mutuelle et une action commune et j’invite la nouvelle administration, qui, je l’espère, sera à la hauteur de  celle qui l’a précédée, à prendre conscience qu’elle a des partenaires capables d’accélérer le temps et de réduire les  distances afin de servir l’UNESCO et ses objectifs. Deuxièmement, les crises qui ébranlent la sécurité, les économies et les  sociétés à l’échelle mondiale sont au fond une crise morale qui a conduit à la colonisation, au rabaissement et à  l’appauvrissement de peuples victimes des monopoles. Si nous voulons tous contribuer à l’édification d’un monde nouveau  exempt de telles crises, nous devons avoir accès à une éducation commune en vue de créer une culture qui rassemble et ne  sépare pas, qui unisse et ne divise pas. Je crois que notre Organisation internationale, que nous respectons tous et sur les  efforts de laquelle nous comptons, est le cadre naturel pour le greffage des civilisations. Je crois également que les points  communs que nous avons en tant qu’êtres humains sont suffisants pour établir un climat, des conditions et même une base  solide propices à la communication et, partant, à la création de passerelles de l’amitié, du dialogue et de la compréhension  mutuelle, ce qui nous permettrait d’assurer une vie libre et décente aux générations futures. J’espère donc que l’on mettra en  place à l’UNESCO une salle des opérations culturelles en vue d’établir des voies de communication entre nous tous, car nous  estimons que seule cette instance sous l’égide de laquelle nous sommes fiers d’agir est capable de créer une culture nouvelle  qui nous aiderait, nous êtres humains, à coexister dans un climat d’amitié, d’amour et de paix. Je vous remercie.
47. The Moderator:   Thank you very much indeed. I now call on the Vice-Minister of Culture of Colombia, Sra. Claudia López.
(48.1) Mme López (Colombie) (traduit de l’espagnol) :   Merci beaucoup. La Colombie est convaincue que la culture constitue un moteur du développement économique et  social de nos peuples et qu’elle régénère le tissu social. Ainsi, la culture présente un fort potentiel de croissance économique  qui s’appuie sur les nouvelles formes de création, de production de valeurs et de commercialisation de biens et services. Nous  sommes convaincus, pour cette raison, que l’investissement dans le domaine de la culture en ces temps de crise ne doit pas  seulement être maintenu, mais aussi accru. Dans cette optique, le gouvernement, le Ministère des finances et le Parlement  ont accompli d’importants efforts et obtenu que le budget culturel soit augmenté en 2010.
(48.2) C’est autour de ce thème, entre autres, que nous avons organisé en septembre le séminaire sur le secteur culturel  aujourd’hui : possibilités, défis et réponses en temps de crise. Ce séminaire, organisé sous l’égide du Bureau de l’UNESCO à  Quito, en présence de représentants et d’experts de pays tels que le Guatemala, le Costa Rica, les États-Unis, l’Espagne, le  Canada et la France, a abouti à certaines conclusions qui méritent d’être partagées avec vous et débattues à l’UNESCO.  L’une d’elles suggère de solliciter auprès des organismes internationaux et multilatéraux comme l’UNESCO l’appui nécessaire  pour établir un réseau d’entités et d’organisations ibéro-américaines œuvrant pour la recherche, l’innovation, l’utilisation des  nouvelles technologies et le développement des industries culturelles. On pourrait également proposer la création d’un fonds  privé-public consacré au développement des industries culturelles au sein de nos pays. Il faudrait, enfin, encourager la  demande de cultures locales dans le commerce international, échanger des données d’expérience sur les bonnes pratiques,  améliorer et harmoniser les systèmes d’information et collaborer à des actions stratégiques en faveur du développement  durable de la culture. Merci beaucoup.
49. The Moderator:   Thank you very much indeed. Now perhaps, Mr Chaponda, if you have some brief responses, we would be glad  to hear them.
50.1 Mr Chaponda (Malawi):   Thank you very much, Mr Chairperson. I think what has come out in the many interventions, for which I thank  you very much for your, is an agreement that UNESCO is doing a commendable job and should therefore continue. I  think it is of vital importance that the funds flow in order to be able to continue to support countries in carrying out the  mandate.
50.2 What has also come out is that everybody is aware that it is very important to support education. For instance, in  the field of basic education – and I support the United States of America, who have said that they have been giving  support – because what you see in many countries is that the disparity between the teacher and pupil ratio is so high. In  Malawi, for instance, you will find one teacher taking care of over 100 students, and the only way to minimize that gap is  by having more teacher training colleges. Also, in some cases you have double-shifting. Now for that to happen you  need a lot of resources. I am glad that UNESCO, through the Southern and Eastern Africa Consortium for Monitoring  Educational Quality (SACMEQ), which is now returning to its home country of Zimbabwe, is looking at those things. But  for this to continue, it is very important to have the funding continue. I therefore appreciate that there should be  commitments from the G20, especially in terms of assistance. It is also pleasing to know that there are some countries,  like Cyprus, who are providing assistance in the region in the field of higher education. This, again, is very important  because in some countries you have a problem of access to higher education and therefore if, again, UNESCO can find  a way of monitoring those countries unable to provide scholarships to other countries, I think it would be helpful and  would ease the situation those countries that are developing the infrastructure which is at the core of these issues. I am  glad that in South Africa you are looking at infrastructure issues, which I think is very, very important. Thank you very  much.
51. The Moderator:   Thank you very much. Maybe we will come back again to our two keynote speakers towards the end of the  debate, but meanwhile I have great pleasure in calling on the Minister of State for Education from Nigeria, Ms Aishatu  Dukku.
52.1 Ms Dukku (Nigeria):   Thank you very much. We quite appreciate the role of UNESCO in Africa. However, a lot needs to be done.  UNESCO needs to do some things differently. I think that UNESCO has to intervene in governance. Only through  governance can Africa refocus and give education the number one priority position in budgetary allocation. UNESCO  must take drastic action in Africa if we are to achieve women’s empowerment and gender equality. I see but a slim  possibility of Millennium Development Goals 2 and 3 being achieved because half of the African population is illiterate:  women and girls. Through governance, perfidy and corruption can be corrected.
52.2 UNESCO still needs to intervene in statistics. A lot of our countries do not have the correct data on the number  of children going to school, out of school, or with special needs; and who knows, the comment by the Minister of Human
386  Resources Development of India about little progress being observed in sub-Saharan Africa might change if the right  data were acquired. Thank you.
53. The Moderator:   Thank you. I now call Ms Rakiatou Zada Maïguizo, who is head of the delegation of Niger and Secretary- General of that country’s National Commission.
54.1 Mme Maiguïzo (Niger) :   Merci, Monsieur le Président, au nom du Niger, je voudrais présenter toutes nos félicitations à M. le Président  de la Conférence générale, et nous prononcer par rapport à cette situation de crise, notamment sur les moyens d’en  sortir. Il faut dire que le contexte économique et social caractérisé depuis 2009 par cette crise sans précédent affecte  surtout les pays d’Afrique au sud du Sahara, qui se sont d’ailleurs résolument engagés dans le développement de leur  système éducatif en vue d’atteindre les objectifs de l’Éducation pour tous. J’allais rappeler que, face à cette situation, les  Ministres de l’éducation qui s’étaient réunis à Tunis du 15 au 17 juillet 2009, ont exprimé leur inquiétude face à la  récession mondiale qui met en péril ces avancées majeures. Ils ont souligné la nécessité d’opérer des choix stratégiques  qui permettent une utilisation optimale des ressources existantes, notamment l’application de meilleures solutions  coût-efficacité et la réalisation d’économies d’échelle.
54.2 Il faut le dire, l’impact de ces contraintes pourrait bien inverser les résultats difficilement acquis au cours des dix  dernières années et compromettre la réalisation des objectifs de l’EPT. Alors, pour préserver les progrès enregistrés et  accélérer la croissance économique, il est urgent d’instaurer des formes élargies d’éducation pour les enfants, les  adolescents et les adultes ainsi que des modalités novatrices de formation et de mobilisation sociale, de même que  d’investir des ressources suffisantes, de manière à inverser la tendance et promouvoir des améliorations véritables dans  les services sociaux de base comme l’éducation, mais aussi dans les domaines de la culture et des sciences. Je vous  remercie.
55. Le Modérateur :   C’est nous qui vous remercions, Madame, et je donne la parole maintenant à M. Bernard Shamlaye, Ministre de  l’enseignement des Seychelles.
56.1 Mr Shamlaye (Seychelles):   Mr Chair, I should like to draw attention to the situation of a number of small developing countries, including my  own, who over the last two or three decades have succeeded in achieving universal primary and secondary education  and progress in other social sectors. We have also done fairly well economically, and as a result we have, so to speak,  graduated from a low-income to a middle-income country. But this status carries with it certain handicaps, such as  exclusion from direct assistance provided by certain developed countries and from concessionary credits. We still have  resource constraints to deal with because of our size. The global financial crisis and the recent food and energy crises  could not have come at a worse time for us: at a time when we were adjusting to economic globalization;  when we need  to rethink and reform secondary education, including technical and vocational education, to increase relevance for young  people, a time when we need to improve the quality of our teachers and their conditions of work, to expand access to  higher education, to build capacity in science and technology, and to preserve and promote our national cultural heritage;  a time when we need to prepare to mitigate the impact of natural disasters and the consequences of climate change. We  need to invest not just to progress but in order not to regress, and for this we need international solidarity and  understanding and a reconsideration of the criteria for cooperation and support; and we count on UNESCO and the  United Nations system’s support in this. Thank you, Mr Chair.
57. The Moderator:   I now call on Her Excellency Ms Geraldine Bitamazire, Minister of Education and Sport of Uganda.
58. Ms Bitzmazire (Uganda):   Thank you very much, honourable Chair. I think that this morning we are all noting the sensitivity of the likely  negative impact of the economic crisis. But I would like point out that UNESCO should continue and probably double its  efforts in building capacities, especially in the developing countries, because with the looming economic crisis there is a  need for capacity-building in the areas of planning, research, evaluation, curriculum review and restructuring the  management and control of education. There is a need for constant tracking of the trends – negative or positive – as the  crisis continues; there is a need to enhance the evidence-based decision-making at country level so that the right  interventions can be made; and there is a need to assess the impact because, Your Excellency, as you do realize, the  impact might vary from country to country, and until there is sufficient data regularly provided for the decision-making,  some of the gaps might widen when the crisis continues. So UNESCO should continue and redouble her strengths and  efforts in building capacities, especially in the developing countries, to be able to track the impact, negative or positive. I  thank you.
59. The Moderator:   Thank you very much indeed. I call now on the Ambassador and Permanent Delegate of Afghanistan, Mr Zahir  Aziz.
60.1 Mr Aziz (Afghanistan):   Thank you for giving me the floor, I am speaking on behalf of His Excellency the Minister of Education of  Afghanistan. First, thank you, Mr Director-General, for this important forum. I would also like to thank His Excellency the  Minister of Human Resource Development of India for the very timely and important suggestions that he made vis-à-vis  UNESCO’s programmes. I hope that we all agree that there are a number of countries in Asia and Africa, in particular,  including mine that have not yet emerged from the crisis. This crisis has probably tripled their problems, which of course    PMF 1
387  has a negative effect on the promotion mainly of security and stability, and, referring particularly to our issues, which has  also contributed to problems of misunderstanding and a lack of education for millions of children in Afghanistan and in  Africa. This crisis definitely has had a negative effect, if we do not look into it very carefully, on the overall objectives of  UNESCO’s programmes in education, the sciences, including the social sciences as well as in culture and technological  development. Therefore, an appeal can be made to all countries, and I thank those that have already pledged aid, or are  in the process of pledging to help UNESCO with the assessments that we do to look into these very important issues  which, in fact, in some parts of the world, are threatening not only the security and stability of mainly conflict and post- conflict countries, but also of the region and the international community as a whole. My country, and my Government  and my people appeal to you all to help us in the years to come because we must establish security and full stability, and  we have to build on the democracy that we have accepted and also send more than 40% of our children to school, which  will be the making of the future of the Afghan nation. Thank you so much.
61. The Moderator:   Thank you very much indeed. I apologize, I see I caught one or two delegates by surprise. I will try from now on  to give fair warning of who is coming next. So if the delegate from Slovenia will stand by, I call now on Mr Alexander  Dzassokhov, a Senator and Vice-Chairperson of the National Commission of the Russian Federation for UNESCO.
(62) M. Dzassokhov (Russie) (traduit du russe) :   Monsieur le Modérateur, j’apprécie la manière habile et professionnelle dont vous dirigez nos débats et c’est dans  cet esprit que je voudrais exprimer mes réflexions. Tout d’abord, les conclusions de notre travail montrent qu’il serait  souhaitable de trouver une solution adéquate pour nous adresser aux participants du prochain Sommet du G-20 et faire part  de l’inquiétude que nous inspire la question de la protection des projets relatifs à l’éducation et à la culture. En second lieu,  nous venons d’entendre des pensées philosophiques qui, bien que dénuées de tout chiffre, présentent un grand intérêt. Par  exemple, l’idée formulée très justement par le Premier Ministre malaisien que la crise actuelle n’est pas tant une crise  financière qu’une crise de conscience. Si nous arrivons à diffuser largement cette idée auprès des États membres de  l’UNESCO, je pense que nous pourrons mobiliser des ressources supplémentaires. En tant que législateur, je tiens à  souligner que si beaucoup d’idées nouvelles ont été exprimées, un grand nombre d’entre elles ont besoin d’être étayées sur le  plan juridique. C’est pourquoi je propose que le service juridique de l’UNESCO formule ces propositions du point de vue du  droit afin que nous puissions préciser dans nos législations nationales les domaines à considérer. Ensuite, je suis partisan  d’un suivi de la façon dont les États traitent des questions relatives à l’éducation en temps de crise. Ma troisième proposition  serait d’inciter les États ayant de longues traditions universitaires à ouvrir plus grand leurs portes aux jeunes issus du groupe  de pays dits du Sud et des pays en développement, tout en laissant aux universités leur entière autonomie. Laissez-moi vous  citer en exemple l’Université russe de l’Amitié des Peuples, qui célébrera l’an prochain son cinquantième anniversaire après  avoir formé 50 promotions de spécialistes hautement qualifiés. Je soutiens la proposition du Ministre indien tendant à  encourager le bénévolat. Enfin, accordons un statut entièrement autonome aux chaires de l’UNESCO, dont on dénombre plus  d’une cinquantaine dans la seule Fédération de Russie. Je vous remercie, Monsieur le Président.
63. The Moderator:   Thank you very much indeed. If the delegate from Togo would please stand by, I now call on His Excellency  Dr Jozsef Györkös, State Secretary at the Ministry of Higher Education, Science and Technology of Slovenia.
64. Mr Györkös (Slovenia):   Thank you, Mr Chairperson. Ladies and gentlemen, the present crisis is without doubt significantly influencing  global societies and international as well as national policies. The achievement of the internationally agreed development  goals in the fields of education, science and culture is at risk. Under such circumstances, the general picture is muddied,  on the one hand, and the appropriateness of economic and statistical indicators to measure the true prosperity of  countries is in question, on the other. This puts us at a general risk of making short-term, but wrong decisions. I truly  believe and strongly emphasize that even bigger commitments on the part of political leaders and opinion-makers to  long-term strategic planning in order to achieve sustainable societies are needed. Investments in various social sectors  should be a priority to prepare our countries for the future, investment in education, higher education, science and ICTs  is crucial. However, a focus on quality and its improvement is necessary to meet the expectations. Competition between
388  countries must be complemented by cooperation and solidarity with UNESCO playing, and continuing to play, an  important role. Thank you very much.
65. The Moderator:   Thank you. If the delegate from Timor-Leste would please stand by, I now call on Dr Messanvi Gbeassor,  Minister of Higher Education and Research of Togo.
66.1 M. Gbeassor (Togo) :   Monsieur le Président, comme beaucoup d’intervenants l’ont déjà expliqué, la crise économique actuelle frappe  de plein fouet les pays en développement. C’est au milieu de cette crise économique que le Togo, soucieux de mettre en  œuvre l’Éducation pour tous, a décrété l’enseignement primaire gratuit, ce qui a nécessairement accru le nombre  d’élèves à former dans les établissements scolaires. Cette décision exige donc des ressources supplémentaires pour  construire de nouvelles écoles et recruter et former de nouveaux enseignants à tous les niveaux du système éducatif.
66.2 Qui plus est, il faut également mettre en place la politique sectorielle en matière d’éducation, qui prend en  compte les différents aspects que je viens d’énumérer, mais qui doit également assurer aux jeunes filles la possibilité de  rester dans le système éducatif le plus longtemps possible. Je crois que le rôle de l’UNESCO est plus que jamais  fondamental en ce qui concerne l’assistance à porter aux pays en développement pour achever ou accomplir cette  mission assez délicate. Je vous remercie.
67. Le Modérateur :   Merci beaucoup, et si le délégué du Burundi veut se tenir prêt, je donne maintenant la parole au docteur Joao  Cancio Freitas, Ministre de l’éducation du Timor-Leste.
68. Mr Cancio Freitas (Timor-Leste):   As a fledgling, small island nation, Timor-Leste is currently building its state institutions and legal frameworks,  and is committed to achieving the Millennium Development Goals (MDGs). Despite the current global financial and  economic crisis, which has impacted on our capacity to invest in the education sector, we are developing our strategic  plan for education, centring on quality education and embracing the education for all (EFA) principles and policies;  introducing universal and compulsory basic education for nine years of schooling; implementing a nationwide literacy  campaign with the support of Cuba’s Sim, Eu Posso method; intensifying national teacher training programmes; and  promoting technical and vocational education and training. For the past two years, we have invested very heavily in  educational infrastructure, establishing mechanisms for increasing rotation rates and reducing the number of pupils  dropping out of schools, as well as for supporting access to and equity of, education for all. We believe that much- needed support is still required through our donors, especially to help advance UNESCO-related initiatives through the  newly established Timor-Leste National Commission for UNESCO. Thank you.
69. The Moderator:   If the Libyan Arab Jamahiriya would please stand by, I first call on Dr Saïdi Kibeya, Minister of Higher Education  and Scientific Research of Burundi.
70.1 M. Kibeya (Burundi) :   Merci, Monsieur le Président. Le Burundi, qui est un pays en sortie de crise, une crise humaine, sociale et  politique qui a duré 40 années, est convaincu qu’il ne doit pas y avoir de contradiction entre difficultés économiques et  financières et accroissement des investissements dans l’éducation, la santé et les autres secteurs visés par les Objectifs  du Millénaire pour le développement, et cela dans les pays en développement. Car, les contraintes liées au manque de  ressources humaines qualifiées influenceront de manière négative tous les autres secteurs et accentueront la crise  financière et la fracture entre pays avancés et pays en développement. C’est ainsi qu’au Burundi, malgré des capacités  financières très modestes, le pays a amélioré de manière significative ses performances dans le domaine de  l’enseignement de base et de la santé maternelle et infantile.
70.2 Malgré un produit intérieur brut d’environ 120 dollars par habitant et par an, le Burundi a porté le taux de  scolarisation net dans le primaire de 53 % à 85 % en l’espace de trois années (de 2005 à 2008), grâce à une politique de  gratuité de l’enseignement de base et de mobilisation de la population en faveur des programmes scolaires. Dans le  secteur de la santé, des systèmes de soins gratuits pour les mères qui accouchent et les enfants de moins de cinq ans,  ont amené notamment à doubler le taux des femmes qui accouchent dans les hôpitaux et les structures sanitaires.
70.3 La Conférence générale devrait recommander, en ce qui concerne l’éducation, qu’une plus large place et qu’un  rôle accru soient accordés à l’UNESCO dans les mécanismes de partenariat internationaux pour le financement de la  formation de base. Je citerai notamment ici l’Initiative de mise en œuvre accélérée de l’Éducation pour tous.
70.4 Monsieur le Président, pour former des ressources humaines propres à enrayer la crise actuelle, pour tirer profit  des ressources naturelles de notre planète, qui sont limitées, de manière partagée et équitable, le domaine de  l’enseignement supérieur, la science et la technologie doivent bénéficier d’une attention particulière comme cela a été  observé lors de diverses rencontres internationales, notamment la Conférence mondiale sur l’enseignement supérieur  organisée par l’UNESCO dernièrement, au mois de juillet de cette année. S’agissant de l’enseignement supérieur, le  Burundi s’est intégré dans des processus sous-régionaux en Afrique, notamment la Communauté économique des pays  des Grands Lacs (CEPGL) et la Communauté d’Afrique de l’Est (CAE) et sollicite l’engagement de l’UNESCO à ce  niveau. Je vous remercie, Monsieur le Président.
71. Le Modérateur :   Merci à vous. En attendant le délégué de la Mongolie, je donne la parole à M. Mohamed Ahmed Alaswad,  adjoint du Ministre de l’éducation de la Jamahiriya arabe libyenne.    PMF 1
(72) M. Alaswad (Jamahiriya arabe libyenne) (traduit de l’arabe) :   Merci, Monsieur le Président. La Jamahiriya arabe libyenne s’est engagée à atteindre les Objectifs du Millénaire  pour le développement. En Libye, toute la population a accès à l’éducation et les femmes représentent 64 % des étudiants  universitaires et 52 % du personnel de l’appareil administratif de l’État. Le pays s’occupe des enseignants, qui bénéficient  actuellement d’une formation à l’informatique et ont vu leur salaire augmenter de 32 %. Ces dernières années, nous avons  assisté à l’évolution de nombreuses crises, qu’il s’agisse d’alimentation, d’énergie, d’eau ou de l’effondrement du système  financier, et tout cela a débouché sur une crise de conscience, comme l’a indiqué le Premier Ministre malaisien, ainsi que sur  une crise morale à l’échelle mondiale. C’est pourquoi nous réaffirmons qu’il importe de renforcer le rôle de l’UNESCO durant  cette période et de réfléchir collectivement aux moyens qu’il conviendrait d’utiliser pour aider les États à élaborer et appliquer  des politiques éducatives et technologiques et à sensibiliser les populations en favorisant le changement et le développement  durable. Le développement durable et la réalisation des Objectifs du Millénaire pour le développement exigent des efforts  conjoints de la part de tous et en faveur de tous. Nous devons insister sur la nécessité de mettre l’accent sur la formation des  enseignants et la formation continue, et nous devons également aider les États à restructurer leur secteur de l’éducation de  façon que le rôle de l’école ne soit plus limité à l’enseignement et s’étende à la concrétisation des nouveaux objectifs de  l’UNESCO : apprendre à travailler, apprendre à partager avec les autres, apprendre à être, et apprendre la citoyenneté  internationale, la protection de l’environnement et les valeurs humaines communes. Nous réaffirmons, comme le Ministre  indien de l’enseignement et de la technologie, qu’il faut élargir le rôle  joué par l’université dans le développement social et  économique, renforcer la propriété intellectuelle dans les universités, et transformer ces dernières pour qu’elles forment non  pas des personnes à la recherche d’un emploi, mais des diplômés capables de créer des possibilités d’emploi. Je propose  donc que l’UNESCO mette en place un programme d’appui aux systèmes de créativité nationale et agisse de concert avec les  États membres de groupes de coopération économique en vue d’assurer le partage des connaissances, le développement  des capacités et le renforcement de la coopération entre les universitaires, les pouvoirs publics et le secteur privé, et de  garantir la participation de tous les citoyens au développement économique et social. Nous invitons l’UNESCO, en cette  période, à collaborer avec le secteur privé, notamment les sociétés d’informatique et les compagnies pharmaceutiques, en  vue de contribuer aux processus de sensibilisation et de formation culturelle moyennant la création d’un Fonds international  pour le développement culturel. Merci.
73. The Moderator:   Thank you very much indeed. If the delegate of Kenya would please stand by, I now call on Mr Yondon  Otgonbayar, Minister for Education, Culture and Science of Mongolia.
74. Mr Otgonbayar (Mongolia):   Thank you, Mr Chairperson, for giving me the floor. I just want to draw the attention of UNESCO and the  Member States to the problems of small countries. My country is three times the size of France with a population of only
2.5 million. Understandably, the cost of providing education services in such a country is extremely high. The relative  economic progress that the country had been enjoying in the past few years has ended because the economy is totally  dependent on very few sectors and high commodity prices. Since commodity prices in the world market are down, the  economic progress is over, doubly so owing to the world financial crisis and the fact that the donor community is reducing  its overall assistance. For example, Mongolia is going to be excluded from the World Bank initiative of education for all,  the Fast-Track Initiative. Although recognized as a simple country, we are likely to be deprived of assistance as a  punishment for success. The country is in the middle of education reforms. We are shifting to 12 years of schooling and  carrying out a reform of technical education and higher education. This requires enormous efforts on the part of the  Government and we need the assistance of the international community, particularly the donor community. My country  spends every fourth dollar on education, that is 26% of our budget this year, but this amount is simply not enough to  meet the demands and to address the challenges that we are facing in our education system. That is why I am calling  upon the Member States, as well as on UNESCO, to pay special attention to the small economies in transition,  particularly at this time of financial crisis. Thank you very much.
75. The Moderator:   Thank you very much indeed. So if the delegate from Bhutan would please be ready, I call first on His  Excellency Mr Samuel Poghisio, Minister of Information and Communication of Kenya.
76. Mr Poghisio (Kenya):   Thank you very much. Mr Chairperson, dear colleagues, I would like to state that the focus on ICTs will help  nations and UNESCO in the current economic crisis. The Kenyan Government acknowledges the critical role of  communication and information in social and economic development. It is envisaged that our economy will rapidly  transform itself into an information and knowledge-based economy. In this regard, a national ICT policy has been  promulgated. Mr Chairperson, in spite of all this, we also find that we do have problems in trying to achieve a national  ICT infrastructure and an information and communication base for services and e-government programmes – which must  be emphasized to meet the need to grow the education sector as well as to deal with the shortage of teachers and  textbooks – in our economies. Overall, Mr Chairperson, the ICT sector is expected to provide avenues for exchanges of  information and new ideas to foster national development. It is also going to inspire education through integrating  information and communication. So far, ICTs have facilitated the promotion, development, sharing and integration of  learning resources to address the needs of primary, secondary and tertiary education. As I conclude, Mr Chairperson, I  would like to call upon the international community to renew its vigour and cooperation in investing in education, the  sciences, culture and communication. The way forward out of the crisis is to be found in the dynamic and appropriate  usage of ICTs as an unprecedented nebula of development. Thank you, Mr Chairperson.
77. The Moderator:   Thank you very much indeed. If the delegate from Mauritania would please be ready, I meanwhile call on His  Excellency, Mr Thakur Powdyel, Minister of Education of Bhutan.
78. Mr Powdyel (Bhutan)   Thank you, Mr Moderator. I would like to make a general statement, not from the position of a moral high ground,  but with a deep sense of humility. Much has been made, and rightly so, of the financial crisis and natural disasters that  have afflicted our world and that threaten to continue to do so. It is fitting that the world comes together every time there  is a crisis. Perhaps the demands at the moment do not give us the luxury of adequate reflection on the sources of our  crisis. At this rate, our world will continue being in a cycle of crises and challenges if we are not able to locate their  sources. The root of financial and environmental crises may perhaps lie in a wider moral crisis somewhere along the way.  I do not know how, but addressing the less obvious yet more crippling moral crisis may be the best way to invest out of  the predicament. Despite being painstaking, and long-term, it is more sustainable nevertheless. Thank you, Sir.
79. The Moderator:   Thank you very much. If the delegate from Indonesia would be ready, please, I call first on Ms Cissé Mingt  Cheikh Ould Boyde, Minister of Culture and Youth of Mauritania.
80.1 Mme Ould Boyde (Mauritanie) :   Merci, Monsieur le Président. Pour participer à ce débat, on doit d’abord se poser des questions. Combien de  temps la crise économique actuelle durera-t-elle ? Certes, la réponse dépend pour une large part des mesures que  prendront les pouvoirs publics et les acteurs socioéconomiques de chaque pays, car l’activité économique est d’abord  une activité humaine. Il convient de réfléchir aux moyens d’éviter de nous en tenir aux vieilles façons de faire, qui nous  mènent de crise en crise. N’est-il pas grand temps de valoriser d’autres modèles qui font appel à l’action citoyenne ?
80.2 Je rappelle que notre histoire collective met en lumière l’apport de groupes de citoyens qui ont, par le biais  d’innovations économiques et sociales, su apporter des solutions efficaces à des crises, et je rappelle ici le rôle des  coopératives agricoles dans les années 1930 et celui, aujourd’hui, de nos artistes, qui sont aussi organisés d’une façon  originale et viable pour créer, produire, diffuser et exporter, contribuant non seulement à notre dynamisme culturel mais  aussi à la création de dizaines de milliers d’emplois et à l’édification d’un secteur économique majeur et prometteur.
80.3 Il devient donc à présent urgent que l’UNESCO puisse faire appel à l’action citoyenne pour contrer les effets  désastreux de la crise qui fait rage. Je tiens à vous informer que dans mon pays, notre stratégie a été repensée par le  gouvernement en incluant les citoyens et les plus pauvres au centre du développement futur de la Mauritanie.
80.4 Enfin, et dans le but de contribuer à ce débat essentiel, nous pensons que l’UNESCO peut tenir compte des  paramètres suivants : tout d’abord une reconnaissance de la pluralité de nos économies, qui s’appuient sur l’entreprise  privée, le secteur public et l’action collective des citoyens à travers l’économie sociale, et ensuite, la reconnaissance des  arts, de la culture et plus largement, de la créativité humaine, comme axe fondamental de développement et de mise en  valeur de nos collectivités. Je vous remercie.
81. The Moderator:   Thank you very much. If Liberia would please stand by, I call first on the Permanent Delegate of Indonesia.
82. Mr Rahman (Indonesia):   As-salāmu ‘alaikum wa-rahmatu llāhi wa-barakātuh (Peace and the mercy and blessings of God be upon you).  Thank you very much, Mr Chair. I have two questions specifically for Mr Kapil Sibal, Minister of Human Resource  Development of India, on the issue of lifestyles. How do you see UNESCO being able to help especially the youth, so  that we can give them a sustainable lifestyle? In paragraph 10 you give a very striking explanation of how dangerous it is  to adopt and to be able to adapt to a sustainable lifestyle. My second question is this: what are your views on the  importance of moral and civic values education nowadays, and do you think that we are going in the right direction   today? If you could share your experience in India, especially with the youth. Thank you very much. As-salāmu ‘alaikum  wa-rahmatu llāhi wa-barakātuh (Peace and the mercy and blessings of God be upon you).    PMF 1
83. The Moderator:   My apologies, that was Dr Arief Rahman, the Executive Chairman of the Indonesian National Commission for  UNESCO. The next speaker will be the representative of Congo, but meanwhile I call on Dr Michael Slawon, head of the  National Commission on Higher Education of Liberia.
84. Mr Slawon (Liberia):   Thank you, Mr Chair. The economic meltdown caught Liberia at a difficult time. Fourteen years of civil war  resulted in a serious problem in Liberia with the education situation. Many donors have come to help, but only looking at  education for all (EFA), secondary and pre-secondary education, and the tertiary education subsector has been left alone.  With the election of Her Excellency Ms Ellen Johnson Sirleaf, many girl-children have now decided to transition to college,  but the college curriculum we are using in Liberia today is limited. It has not taken current day realities on board such as  gender parity, HIV/AIDS, education for sustainable development, ICTs and environmental issues. We are here to  encourage the UNESCO work that has been going on to see reasons to support Liberian higher education so that we  can accommodate the girl-children that are transitioning to college. Thank you so much, Mr Chair.
85. The Moderator:   From now on, in the interest of time, I will not read out the names of the distinguished speakers, but simply call  them by the name of their country. Next will be Côte d’Ivoire, but first I call on Congo.
86. M. Abena (Congo) :   Merci, Monsieur le Président. L’importance du thème dont nous débattons est indéniable. Pour ma part, j’axerai  mon propos sur un des problèmes soulevés ici, celui de la massification des effectifs, particulièrement dans  l’enseignement supérieur, massification que l’on considère comme l’un des facteurs réduisant la qualité de l’offre, tout en  sachant que le nouveau multilatéralisme continuera de se fonder principalement sur le leadership national et la  coopération. Je voudrais porter à la connaissance du Forum que le Congo, mon pays, se propose ainsi, certes dans un  contexte de crise comme cela a été mentionné ici, de se doter à l’horizon 2010 d’une nouvelle carte universitaire  nationale, avec éventuellement la création de deux universités supplémentaires et de centres spécialisés. Dans cette  œuvre importante, vous le comprenez, Monsieur le Président, l’accompagnement de l’UNESCO est sollicité. Je vous  remercie.
87. Le Modérateur :   Si le délégué du Paraguay veut bien attendre, j’appellerai d’abord celui de la Côte d’Ivoire.
88.1 M. Bleu-Lainé (Côte d’Ivoire) :   Merci, Monsieur le Président. La crise a impliqué une réduction drastique des investissements qui se traduit au  plan de l’éducation dans mon pays, par une offre limitée d’enseignants et de salles de classe dans nos écoles. Le grand  nombre d’élèves dans les classes du secondaire a entraîné un taux d’échec élevé aux examens. Dans l’attente de  ressources appropriées et d’une véritable réforme qui s’impose, nous avons décidé de mettre en place une gestion du  système éducatif axée sur les résultats. Ces résultats ne seront pas seulement quantitatifs, mais surtout qualitatifs. Pour  ce faire, l’UNESCO doit aider à sensibiliser tous les acteurs de l’éducation, enseignants, parents d’élèves, syndicats et  ONG, pour que chacun puisse prendre part activement à la réalisation de ces objectifs.
88.2 D’autre part, nous voulons insister sur un point particulier concernant les pays en crise, qui ont bien souvent fait  l’effort de maintenir le fonctionnement des institutions universitaires publiques à un niveau acceptable. Or, au plan  international, les aides attendues restent souvent suspendues, même le financement de projets de recherche obtenu par  les chercheurs à la suite de compétitions serrées. L’UNESCO doit pouvoir jouer un rôle pour faire comprendre aux  partenaires techniques et financiers que les crises ne doivent pas affecter l’aide à l’enseignement supérieur.
88.3 Concernant l’édification de sociétés du savoir, l’UNESCO doit accroître son action en faveur de la réduction de  la fracture numérique. La bonne information, la bonne utilisation de nouvelles techniques de l’information et de la  communication peuvent aider au développement économique, social et culturel de notre pays. Il ne suffit pas d’avoir des  richesses enfouies dans nos sous-sols, il importe de le savoir, de pouvoir les exploiter, de les utiliser pour le bien de nos  populations. L’UNESCO peut aider à ce développement en accroissant son appui à la construction de sociétés de  savoirs. Sur ce point, j’aimerais m’aligner sur la position du Ministre indien, qui a indiqué qu’il faudrait créer une sorte de  bourse du savoir, où les échanges pourraient se faire. Je vous remercie.
89. The Moderator:   Thank you very much indeed. I am now closing the list of speakers. I have seven left to call on, and after that I  will ask the two keynote speakers both to respond, if they wish, very briefly. Then the Director-General will sum up his  impressions on the debate. So the remaining speakers are Paraguay, Comoros, Jamaica, Colombia, who had asked for  the floor again and I did promise that that could happen, then Bolivia, Maldives and Zimbabwe. So first, Paraguay, please.
(90.1) M. Driart (Paraguay) (traduit de l’espagnol) :    Quant à savoir comment peut réagir l’UNESCO face à la crise, quatre points peuvent être évoqués. En premier lieu,  l’UNESCO peut continuer à promouvoir ces espaces multiculturels qui permettent d’approfondir de manière systématique le  débat sur l’origine, les causes et les conséquences de cette crise et des crises persistantes que nous connaissons au niveau  local, résultant dans de nombreux pays de l’écart qui sépare le discours théorique sur l’importance d’investir dans l’éducation  et l’investissement effectif.
(90.2) Deuxièmement, ce débat doit se traduire par des recommandations multisectorielles de l’UNESCO, axées non  seulement sur ce qui va être fait pour sortir de la crise, mais également sur la dimension éthique et systémique de la manière  de procéder. Il serait regrettable, en effet, de reproduire les mêmes recettes économicistes qui sont à l’origine de cette crise  mondiale.
(90.3) Nous partageons l’avis du Ministre de l’Inde selon lequel l’UNESCO doit renforcer les plates-formes ouvertes et les  canaux de communication qu’elle nous offre à l’heure actuelle. Et nous sommes d’accord avec les Ministres de la République  dominicaine et de Cuba pour penser que l’école et l’université ne doivent plus être considérées comme une simple variable  stimulant le développement économique, mais comme un espace communautaire d’apprentissage, où se construit une  identité culturelle et où la science se met au service des véritables besoins de la société. Par le biais de ces centres de  recherche sur l’éducation, l’UNESCO peut contribuer à ce que l’instruction sur l’école se recentre notamment sur ce qui a trait  à la qualité de l’éducation ainsi qu’à la création des conditions pédagogiques et de l’infrastructure matérielle et politique  nécessaires à la formation d’une personne.
(90.4) Nous devons à nouveau former l’être humain afin d’en faire un citoyen impliqué dans la société nouvelle qui devrait  émerger de cette crise. Merci beaucoup.
91. The Moderator:   And now the Minister from Comoros, please.
92.1 M. Afraitane (Comores) :   Merci, Monsieur le Modérateur. Les Comores, petit État insulaire pauvre du Sud-Ouest de l’océan Indien, se bat  et désire atteindre les Objectifs du Millénaire et de l’Éducation pour tous, car c’est là une obligation pour la réduction de  la pauvreté et la promotion de l’égalité entre les sexes dans notre système éducatif. L’économie de nos îles est basée  essentiellement sur les cultures de rentes et le tourisme et dépend fortement de l’aide publique au développement. Or,  cette aide, ces ressources financière, se sont taries ces dernières années, en particulier pour les petits États insulaires  pauvres. Le contexte actuel se caractérise par le manque d’infrastructures éducatives, en particulier pour parvenir à  instaurer l’éducation de base universelle. Les bailleurs de fonds et les motivations de nos partenaires traditionnels ont  changé, et les financements ne sont pas au rendez-vous. Et pourtant, notre pays, qui sort d’un long conflit, a besoin  d’écoles pour se développer et assurer aux générations futures un avenir durable de paix et de prospérité. Nous  demandons l’appui des partenaires du développement, nous leur demandons de nous aider à améliorer la qualité de nos  enseignants et à développer la formation professionnelle et technique. Je vous remercie.
93. Le Modérateur :   Maintenant, le délégué de la Jamaïque, s’il vous plaît.
94. Ms Grange (Jamaica):   I wish to congratulate Colombia on increasing their culture budget. Normally, governments reduce their budgets  in such times, or do not even consider maintaining the existing funding. So I think we must address, with great urgency,  the need for resources to be identified for a special fund to be earmarked to enhance cultural development programmes,  especially in small island States like Jamaica. The poet this time needs something to hold onto. Culture is motivational, it  is inspiring, it is a positive thing, it is a great tool for social intervention and social stability. Funding would move the skills  of young people from their natural talent to a professional or world-class level. Intellectual property can create wealth. For  example, in Jamaica, which has a population of 2.7 million, we talk about culture as a lifestyle, as a way of life and we  are a very talented people. But when we talk about culture we are also talking about physical culture, that is sports. We  have the fastest man in the world and some of the fastest women. We have reggae music that has penetrated the world,  and a musical icon in Bob Marley. But it takes cash to care and we have many more Marleys and many more Usain Bolts.  So a fund should be created, with urgency, so that we can help countries like Jamaica and help to develop the skills of  our young people, especially our women. Thank you.
95. The Moderator:   Thank you very much and you did very well to compliment the speaker coming immediately after you. I should  clarify that this is the second minister from Colombia. You previously heard the Minister of Education; this now will be the  Minister of Communication and Information, Her Excellency Ms María del Rosario Guerra.    PMF 1
(96.) Mme Guerra (Colombie) (traduit de l’espagnol) :   Merci, Monsieur le modérateur. Nous souhaitons simplement ajouter trois éléments au nom de la Colombie.  Premièrement, pour répondre à la crise, des places ont été ouvertes à l’université et en formation professionnelle, 150 000  nouvelles places dans le domaine de l’éducation et la construction de plus de 20 méga-collèges dans le cadre de la relance.  Le deuxième point que je veux souligner a trait à la formation des journalistes. Près de 540 journalistes des régions les plus  reculées en bénéficient et nous tâchons de créer une centaine de chaînes communautaires, en veillant à ce que celles-ci  constituent des espaces de participation de la communauté dans les moments difficiles que nous vivons actuellement. Le  troisième aspect, également lié à la technologie de l’information et de la communication, concerne la généralisation du haut  débit et des ordinateurs dans les écoles, que nous avons déjà –malgré la crise – dotées d’environ 45 000 ordinateurs dans
3 006 sièges éducatifs officiels, dans le cadre de la stratégie visant à lutter contre la crise, dont l’impact a été modéré en  Colombie, mais qui nous a tout de même affectés. Je vous remercie.
97. The Moderator:   Thank you very much. Now I call on the delegate from the Plurinational State of Bolivia.
(98.1) M. Lorgio Vaca (État plurinational de Bolivie) (traduit de l’espagnol) :   Je vous remercie, Monsieur le Président. Au nom du Ministre de l’éducation de l’État plurinational, M. Luis Aguilar,  qui n’a pas pu assister à cette réunion, je salue le Directeur général de l’UNESCO, M. Koïchiro Matsuura, et le remercie de sa  sollicitude et de sa solidarité envers notre pays. Il y sera toujours considéré comme un ami. Nous voulons également  remercier le Président du Conseil exécutif, M. Joseph Yaï, et adresser nos vœux aux nouvelles directions de l’UNESCO et de  la Conférence générale.
(98.2) La Bolivie consacre actuellement tous ses efforts à revenir sur 500 ans d’indifférence et d’exclusion et vient de  fonder un nouvel État plurinational, qui se propose d’appliquer la reconnaissance de la diversité culturelle, postulat de  l’UNESCO. Le pays a entrepris de repenser l’éducation nationale du point de vue de la communauté, dans sa langue  maternelle et le respect des valeurs culturelles de chacune des plus de 30 populations autochtones qui peuplent notre  territoire. C’est cet État plurinational qui dirige aujourd’hui, grâce à la Constitution approuvée pour la première fois en Bolivie  par un référendum populaire favorable à plus de 60 %, les orientations de notre pays. Les populations autochtones et les  secteurs écartés de la politique nationale depuis des siècles, qui ont toujours représenté la majorité, sont actuellement ceux  qui s’apprêtent, sous la présidence de l’autochtone Evo Morales, à bâtir un pays nouveau, plus juste et maître de sa destinée.  Ils comptent y parvenir grâce à l’éducation, une éducation sans exclusion qui ne soit pas seulement accessible à tous sans  exception, mais qui provienne de la communauté dans les langues et savoirs indigènes et traditionnels, afin d’enrichir ce  nouvel État plurinational et multilingue d’une éducation intraculturelle et interculturelle. Cette interculturalité est essentielle, car  elle fonde notre cohabitation et notre unité d’action.
99. The Moderator:   I must give the floor now to the delegate from the Maldives. If the delegate from the Maldives is not present, I  give the floor to the delegate from Zimbabwe.
100. Mr Mahere (Zimbabwe):   Thank you, Mr Moderator. I wanted to share with you the situation in my country today in the light of the financial  crisis and the imposition of illegal sanctions against my country. Since 1980, the government of my country has spent
30% of the national budget on education every year without fail. The result is that Zimbabwe has the highest literacy rate
394  on the continent of Africa. We are always very proud of that record. This is a result of the parents’ commitment to  education, a result of the Government’s commitment to the importance of education. But I am sad to inform you that as I  sit here for the first time in the 30 years of our independence, 70% of the students who should be sitting their “O” and “A”  levels are unable to do so this year because their parents cannot pay the examination fees. This is because of the  sanctions and the financial crisis. The Government is desperate to try and salvage the situation. This is the reality of the  financial crisis and the illegal sanctions imposed on my country by certain members of the international community. I  have lost a huge number of teachers, lecturers and professors who have gone into the diaspora. I have some subjects  that I cannot teach at university as a result of the economic stress brought about by the sanctions on my country. I was  very pleased to hear the contribution from the Russian delegation that maybe a message could be sent to the G20. I am  most encouraged by the proposal by the Indian Minister that open-source knowledge platforms could be created. I hope  UNESCO might take up these proposals to help countries like Zimbabwe in its present situation. I thank you.
101. The Moderator:   Thank you very much indeed. I really must congratulate virtually all the speakers on the way that they have  acted in the spirit that was agreed, and have really focused their speeches and made them short. I think we have been  able to get through a lot of very, very interesting and important points. I think everybody should be grateful and  appreciative of that. I will now ask Mr Chaponda if we wishes very briefly to give any further response to points that have  been made.
102.1 Mr Chaponda (Malawi):   Thank you, Mr Chair. As we have heard, in some situations we have developing countries that look to UNESCO  and donors for assistance to invest in education and related fields. But while this is the case, it is important also that  developing countries resist the temptation to cut down their education budgets. Thankfully, we hear from Zimbabwe that  this has not been the case, because in the long run, the long-term cost of reducing funding in the sector is that it will  affect everything. We in Malawi recognize this and, according to the Government’s policy, we have ensured that a lot of  money has been accorded to the field of education. Notwithstanding this, the needs in the education sector are so great,  particularly for educational infrastructure, that we need a lot of external assistance and therefore appeal to UNESCO, as  others have said, to recognize the importance of continuing to promote capacity-building for developing countries.
102.2 I would also like to agree with what has been said by Liberia, that in some cases emphasis is given perhaps to  one field of the education sector, like basic education, but tertiary or higher education is neglected. I would like to add  that sometimes when the donors are allocating their budgets they should ensure that when you are developing a student,  the student starts from basic but then goes to tertiary or higher education. So it should be proportional, or at least all the  areas should be given equal importance. Thank you.
103. The Moderator:   Thank you very much. Mr Sibal will now do likewise.
104.1 Mr Sibal (India):   Thank you very much. I think we are all agreed here that in times of financial crisis we must not dilute our  investments in the social sector, in particular education. The fact is, when you do have problems – financial problems –  the impact on the social sector is inevitable. That is the reality of today whether we like it or not. So what we need to do is  put systems in place to help each other, to make sure that the impact of any dilution does not have very serious  consequences in particular countries.
104.2 The delegate from Indonesia, Mr Rahman, asked me a couple of questions so I need to respond to those. First,  on changing lifestyles, the fact is that there has already been discussion within the framework of the United Nations  Decade of Education for Sustainable Development (2005-2014), and it is in that context that UNESCO, through the  Director-General, has agreed to set up a category 1 institute in India of education for peace and sustainable development,  the Mahatma Ghandi Institute. I think we can do a lot because it can be the think tank to see how we should take these  concepts forward. But of course, at the heart of the financial crisis there is a moral crisis. It would not have happened in  the absence of a moral crisis. The moral crisis is very simple: we have lost, have forgotten our understanding that the  most important natural resources are human beings. We always think in terms of acquiring natural resources in this  country or that country to run a nuclear power station or to run our industries as businesses, and we forget that the most  important natural resources are human beings. I think that UNESCO somehow has to send a message to the global  community that the most important natural resources are human beings and that we, as countries, need to invest in  human beings much more, perhaps, than in natural resources; that the rate of returns are much higher if we invest in  human beings. So I would suggest that UNESCO should declare the next decade as the “decade for transformation”,  because the nature of knowledge – the nature of education – has changed. We need actually to retransfigure and  reinvent ourselves according to what we want to do in this transformational process; and education is at the heart of it.  That is a thought for all of us: whether we should move forward, in what direction, through what content, and how we  need to reinvent and reskill ourselves to meet the challenges of tomorrow. Thank you.
105. The Moderator:   Thank you very much indeed, Minister. The Director-General has served notice, I think reasonably, that he will  need a little more than three minutes to respond to such a rich debate, but I will remind him that actually there are only  two minutes left until 1 p.m., so every minute beyond that he is keeping you away from your lunch, which is a very  dangerous thing to do. As soon as he is finished, I will conclude the debate. Thank you.
106.1 The Director-General:   Thank you very much for being generous with me with regard to time, although I will try to be as brief as possible.  The first thing I would like to stress is that I totally agree with Minister Sibal. I am very happy to note that there is total    PMF 1
395  consensus on the importance of investing in education in times of crisis, education being a driving force for development.  Many important concrete suggestions have been made in that regard. I hope these will be further discussed, possibly in  the afternoon session, and also possibly in the day-and-a-half Ministerial Round Table on Education we will organize on  Friday and Saturday.
106.2 The second point is related to culture. I am very happy to note many ministers in charge of culture have stressed  that culture is a driving force. But I do hope that that perception is also supported by other political leaders, in particular  prime ministers and heads of state, and I would like to add that it is very important to gain support from donors. Donors  must give more priority to culture in their overseas development assistance (ODA) programmes, believing that culture is  a driving force for development as well. In that context, I would like to mention that we are organizing a very big  exhibition just outside devoted to culture and development in order to stress that particular point.
106.3 The third point that I would like to make is that we tend to focus on traditional donors: the G8 and others. These  are very, very important donors, but we should not forget about emerging donors. I appreciate Cuba’s Yo Sí Puedo  Method for helping many developing countries in the area of promoting literacy, and two days ago we heard the Prime  Minister of Malaysia announcing the establishment of a very important fund-in-trust at UNESCO for education in the  poorest countries. That is a very important contribution. I would like to welcome more emerging donor participation.
106.4 The fourth point I would like to make is that I think what you have stressed with regard to UNESCO’s action at  the country level is very important, because UNESCO must further strengthen and reinforce its country-level action  through its field offices. I have been trying to strengthen the capacities of field offices, but we have to enlarge the scope  of coverage. We traditionally have National Commissions as important partners, but we now have, as our new partners,  category 1 institutes, category 2 institutes and others, as the Minister of India has stressed. So we have to strengthen  UNESCO’s country-level action – our region-level action – through these partners. Of course the central role must be  played by UNESCO in the field offices.
106.5 I would also like to say that UNESCO’s traditional weakness is that we tend to focus on programme sectors –  education, culture, sciences, communication and information – which is a very, very important asset to UNESCO, but we  tend to forget that we must establish country-by-country strategies covering those five areas, establishing an  intersectoral approach, even within education, as many of you have stressed. Your countries’ needs for education are  very divergent, and UNESCO must take very differentiated approaches. In that context, I would like to remind you that  that is a direction in which we are moving and we have established what we call the UNESCO Education Support  Strategy, UNESS, covering 90 countries. I want to extend the of coverage, possibly to all developing countries. So we  are now establishing UNESCO’s country-by-country strategy in the area of education, in the form of UNESS, and I would  like to also mention that it is becoming a guideline for the whole United Nations system in the area of education. So  UNESS will not be just a guiding principle for UNESCO action at the country level, but also a guiding principle for the  whole United Nations system in the area of education. Nevertheless, UNESCO has four other areas, so I am trying to  encourage it to establish more coherent, more comprehensive country strategies in the form of what we call the  UNESCO Country Programme Document (UCPD). There, I must admit, I have not made very rapid progress. We have to  do more and I do hope my successor will continue to move in the same direction. We have produced 15 UCPDs, but that  is not enough. We have to establish a country-by-country strategy covering all five sectors and establishing a coherent  and intersectoral approach to countries’ divergent needs. That should respond to many of the points raised here. I have  heard several countries mention that they were becoming medium-income countries but losing access to donors. There  we have to analyse divergent needs in a more careful way.
106.6 The last point I would like to make – and I mentioned this in the context of UNESS – is that UNESCO must act  as a member of the United Nations system. There, as we further strengthen UNESCO’s country-level presence and  action, it will oblige us to act in a more coherent, more harmonious way as a member of the United Nations Country  Team, (UNCT), As you know, the United Nations system has chosen eight pilot countries for the “Delivering as One”  approach, but we are now establishing what we call the United Nations Development Assistance Framework (UNDAF)  for 90 countries. UNESCO is a part of it, and a very important partner. In the context of UNDAF, we have to expand the  “Delivering as One” approach to all 90 countries. Therefore, it is very crucial for UNESCO first to establish a country-level  strategy, but also act as a responsible member of the United Nations Country Team in order to respond to these  divergent needs that you have expressed, in close collaboration with other United Nations agencies: UNDP, UNICEF, the  United Nations Population Fund (UNFPA), WHO and so on. I am sorry, I have not covered all, but I have just picked up  the most essential points. Thank you very much.
107.1 The Moderator:   Thank you very much indeed, Director-General. I do not think anybody could reasonably have expected you to  cover everything. I think the Secretariat has been listening very carefully to this discussion, and I am sure that we will find  ways to take forward the many exciting ideas that you have suggested. You will continue the discussion this afternoon  under the able guidance of my good friend and former colleague, Mr Ghassan Salamé, when you will be addressing  specifically the UNESCO of the next 10 years. Clearly there is a major role for UNESCO in helping to resolve or to cope  with many of the problems that have been referred to. Clearly, the major responsibility, as always, is going to fall upon  national governments., But I think in this area in particular a very big responsibility falls on civil society, and I say that as  somebody who is now part of it, running a small non-governmental organization in Austria, which nonetheless aspires to  become global and to play a role in education, notably in the area of media literacy, which I think is very much part of  UNESCO’s remit, as well as education for sustainability. We are, in fact, trying to put together a sustainable futures  academy based at the Salzburg Global Seminar but operating in all parts of the world as a kind of network whereby  universities and other institutions of higher education can share best practices and help each other prepare the next
396  generation of world leaders for dealing with the challenge of climate change, which I think we all see as being probably  the major, or certainly a major challenge of the coming century.
107.2 So, with that thought I will express my great gratitude for the honour of being asked to chair these proceedings  and, again, to all the speakers who entered so well into the spirit of an interactive and fast-moving debate. I wish you all  bon appétit.  The meeting rose at 1.10 p.m.  La séance est levée à 13 h 10  Se levanta la sesión a las 13.10  Заседание закрывается в 13.10  א א١,١٠א   会议于 13 时 10 分结束