1. The President:   I should like to declare open the sixth plenary session, and furthermore I would like to take the time before we  continue with the general policy debate to thank all of you, absolutely, for your outstanding cooperation with regard to our  six-minute time limit for interventions. You will find that in the long run this is the best way for us to operate, the best way  for us to function, and in that way we use the time more efficiently. So now, as we begin, I have the honour to call on the  first speaker this afternoon, His Excellency Mr Tobias Krantz, Minister of Education of Sweden. You have the floor, Sir.
2.1 Mr Krantz (Sweden):   Mr President of the General Conference, Excellencies, delegates, ladies and gentlemen, I am very pleased to be  here. The first part of this speech is on behalf of the European Union, which consists of 27 countries and the candidate  countries Turkey, Croatia and the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia; and in the second part, I will speak on behalf  of Sweden. The European Union would like to thank Mr Matsuura for his long-term commitment and dedication to  UNESCO. Mr Matsuura has worked hard to reform the Organization to make it more efficient and transparent. The  European Union warmly congratulates Ms Bokova on her nomination as the new Director-General and is looking forward  to working with her. We are particularly glad that for the first time we have a woman nominated for this position.
2.2 The world is facing many challenges. The major ones are economic recovery and climate change. In troubled  times like these, it is easy to focus on short-term solutions, but I want to stress the importance of keeping the long-term  perspective in mind and investing in education and research. Today’s investments in education and research are  tomorrow’s welfare. That is one of the reasons why a strong UNESCO is needed. Mr President, the world has changed  dramatically since the foundation of UNESCO. The European Union therefore welcomes the proposal by the
182nd session of the Executive Board regarding a comprehensive external evaluation. We believe that it is time to initiate  such a thorough evaluation focusing on the core role of UNESCO, assessing its relevance and proposing necessary  changes. It should review the five functions of UNESCO: to serve as a clearing house, capacity-builder, laboratory of  ideas, standard-setter and catalyst for international cooperation. Such an evaluation is precisely for the future and will  benefit all Member States of this Organization. In order to ensure fundamental values such as peace, democracy, human  rights and sustainable development, the European Union fully believes in a strong and vital multilateral system, and we  will continue to support the One United Nations reform, and we encourage UNESCO to continue its work within the One  United Nations pilot countries. UNESCO needs to become more efficient and results-driven. It needs to set clear  priorities and concentrate on its core tasks. Only then can we maximize results. It is also important to improve  UNESCO’s performance at country level, in particular as part of the One United Nations. The European Union  recommends the General Conference to approve a budget ceiling of $653 million for the next two years. However, the  cost for central administration is still too high, and further work is needed in order to transfer resources from  administration to normative work and programme activities. We welcome the clear recommendation to the Director- General in the draft budget proposed by the Executive Board to pursue efforts in this direction in the future. We will  welcome the introduction of a mechanism for constant reduction of central administrative costs.
2.3 Mr President, UNESCO has a new unique role to defend freedom of expression and the freedom of the press.  Such freedoms are a prerequisite for peace and development. UNESCO needs to further strengthen its work in this field.
2.4 In the area of education, several UNESCO conferences have left us with strong messages of extensive  educational needs for high-quality education at all levels and for all age groups, from pre-school to higher education, and  including vocational education. The international community has, on several occasions, committed itself to delivering  primary education and literacy for all. Although progress has been made, we need to accelerate the efforts to ensure  literacy for all and free and compulsory primary education of good quality by 2015, as emphasized in the Millennium  Development Goals. The clock is ticking, and it is ticking fast. If we seriously wish to live up to our commitments, there is  no time to waste.
2.5 Mr President, climate change is one of the biggest challenges to humankind and UNESCO’s work in this field is  of great importance. We would like to underline the Man and the Biosphere (MAB) Programme as one of the  cornerstones of this work. Efforts to reinforce education for sustainable development are of the utmost importance in  order to create the awareness needed. This is why the United Nations Decade of Education for Sustainable  Development (2005-2014), for which UNESCO is the lead agency, is so important. The link between science and  education is crucial to education for sustainable development. This is also an area where UNESCO has a special role to  play, and we hope to see even more activities in it.
2.6 Mr President, the European Union fully supports UNESCO’s overarching priorities of Africa and gender equality.  Gender equality is at the heart of economic and social progress and essential to sound development practice. It is a  critical component to eradicate poverty, to enhance economic growth and democratic governance, and to achieve  sustainable development. We would like to see a gender perspective in expected results in all UNESCO programmes.  Gender perspective naturally includes men and women, boys and girls. The European Union welcomes the Executive  Board’s decision that the UNESCO Institute for Statistics should work more actively at generating gender-disaggregated  data whenever possible. This is crucial for our ability to make fact-based decisions that best promote development for all.
2.7 We live in a globalized world, and the cultural domination is greater than ever. This dimension crosses all policy  areas and is a vital aspect in cooperation for development. Culture and dialogue have to remain at the centre of  UNESCO’s work. We welcome the fact that 100 countries have ratified the 2005 Convention on the Protection and  Promotion of the Diversity of Cultural Expressions, and the fact that its implementation has made great progress in the  past year.
2.8 Finally, I would like to underscore the fact that the European Union is based on the same fundamental values as  UNESCO. We need to work closely together in order to further fundamental freedoms and the right to knowledge all over  the world.
2.9 Mr President, if you bear with me, I will now say a few words as the representative of Sweden. Of course we  stand by the European Union positions, and it gives me great pleasure to announce today that Sweden will contribute  financially to the proposed external evaluation. Now I would like to emphasize a few areas of special importance to  Sweden.
2.10 Sweden would also like to thank our Director-General, Mr Matsuura, for his efforts in making UNESCO more  efficient and transparent. We also welcome the nomination of Ms Bokova as the new Director-General. We are  particularly glad that we, for the first time, have nominated a woman for this position. Mahatma Gandhi said, “You must  be the change you wish to see in the world”. Electing a female Director-General sends a signal that UNESCO’s priority of  gender equality is not just a plan on paper. We wish the new Director-General the best of luck continuing to reform the  Organization. UNESCO needs to become more efficient and results-driven and more focused on its core missions.
2.11 Mr President, freedom of expression is fundamental to a functioning society. If established facts cannot be  challenged, a society cannot evolve. An independent and free press is a core condition to make sure other human rights  are upheld. According to the Freedom of the Press index, the current situation is not encouraging. Freedom of the press  is declining in almost every part of the world. The survey for 2009 shows a seventh straight year of decline in global  media freedoms. Only 70% of the world’s population today lives in countries with a free press. In 2009 alone,
33 journalists have been killed and almost 200 imprisoned. They have been deprived of their fundamental rights, their  human rights, for trying to spread information. I could use all my time on the podium here giving you horrific examples,  but for today I shall just mention one of the many who have paid too high a price for trying to bring news to the rest of us.  The Swedish-Eritrean journalist David Isaac was imprisoned in 2001 while exercising his rights as a journalist. He has  now been held for over eight years without trial. We call for his immediate release. Every single story like that is an  unacceptable tragedy. Freedom of the press must be at the top of UNESCO’s agenda in the coming years. UNESCO  should organize, in cooperation with major non-governmental organizations and other institutions, an annual forum of  freedom of expression and freedom of the press. We cannot allow freedom of expression to be undermined. We must  speak up on behalf of those who have had their own voices silenced.
2.12 Mr President, as lead agency for education and research, UNESCO has an important normative role to play in  today’s globalized world. New knowledge is needed to face the grand challenges of our time. Climate change is  becoming more evident than ever. We need new scientific breakthroughs to combat that threat. The economic crisis has  stressed the importance of international cooperation. How can governance be developed in a more global,  interdependent world? Poverty, water shortage and food safety are other areas where new knowledge and new  discoveries are the only way forward. The latest influenza outbreak has underlined the need for research in the field of  medicine. We who have plenty must take the responsibility and invest heavily in education and research to face up to  these grand challenges. We must also make sure knowledge is spread across the globe. Here, UNESCO has a unique  role to fulfil as a clearing house for ideas. We share more challenges than ever. We must face them together.
2.13 Sweden strongly supports the education for all (EFA) agenda. Luckily we are past debating whether or not  primary education and literacy for all should be a priority for UNESCO, but consensus on what needs to be achieved is  not enough. We need actually to achieve results. Nelson Mandela said, “Education is the most powerful weapon which  you can use to change the world”. Sure, education is important to create new knowledge that can be turned into growth  and prosperity. But it is also important because it creates more decent societies.
2.14 Mr President, the financial crisis has affected us all. The desire to find the fastest road to recovery will dominate  the debate for months and maybe years to come. It might be tempting to focus on short-term solutions, but I want to  underline the importance of remaining far-sighted. Investment in education and research may not be a quick fix for the  crisis at hand, but it is essential to build a world economy that can stand strong when again challenged. UNESCO, as the  Organization for promoting education and research, must speak out and make sure the long-term perspective is not lost.  Thank you.
3. The President:   I thank the Minister of Education of Sweden for his remarks. I now give the floor to the Minister of Education and  Culture of Cyprus, His Excellency Mr Andreas Demetriou.
4.1 Mr Demetriou (Cyprus):   Mr President of the General Conference, Mr Chair of the Executive Board, Mr Director-General, distinguished  delegates, allow me to begin my address by congratulating the new President of the General Conference on his election.  I am confident that under his wise direction, the 35th session of the General Conference will meet our expectations and  prove to be exceptionally productive. I would also like to praise the outgoing President, Ambassador George  Anastassopoulos, for his successful mandate. Lastly, I wish to pay a special tribute to the outgoing Director-General,  Mr Koïchiro Matsuura, for his commitment to UNESCO’s mandate and aims, and for his tireless efforts to enhance
124  UNESCO’s influence and effectiveness. We also congratulate Madam Bokova on her nomination as the new Director- General, and we are looking forward to a fruitful collaboration.
4.2 Mr President, in today’s rapidly changing world, UNESCO’s scope and vision has become more pertinent than  ever before. Issues such as the reduction of poverty and illiteracy, the wise management of the earth’s natural resources,  sustainable development, climate change and the promotion and conservation of cultural diversity are of global concern  and should feature high on the agenda of every State. UNESCO has been a pioneer in this regard as it rendered such  issues its top priority from the very moment of its inception, thus paving the way for other international and national  organizations, such as the European Union, to address them. Today, UNESCO must rise to the occasion once again and  deal with the global challenges of our times decisively through innovative and concerted action in all of its fields of  competence. Cyprus has been deeply committed to all of these aims since 1961. Throughout the years, Cyprus has  embraced enthusiastically UNESCO’s aims and programmes and has worked hard to promote the Organization’s vision  and strategy.
4.3 In the field of education, Cyprus shares UNESCO’s vision of education as the key to social and economic  development and understands the need to promote education for sustainable development as a means of overcoming  current social and environmental challenges. According to UNESCO’s 2009 EFA Global Monitoring Report, as in  previous years, Cyprus figures among the countries which have achieved most of the goals of the education for all  programme. Cyprus has made important steps in higher education as it currently supports three state and three private  universities, thus increasing the opportunities for studies in the country and for further development of research and  innovation. These opportunities will inevitably be enhanced following the recent establishment of a UNESCO Chair on  Gender Equality and Women’s Empowerment at the University of Cyprus. Special mention should also be made of the  project on the theme “fighting against poverty through human rights and education”, whose first phase was successfully  concluded earlier this year. The project promotes women’s education in certain villages in Niger, within the framework of  UNESCO’s work in Africa, and is co-sponsored by the Governments of Andorra, Cyprus, Luxemburg, Monaco and San  Marino. The second phase of the project will extend its scope to new villages, and is expected to conclude by the end of
2010. Moreover, Cyprus is very actively involved in supporting African countries, to develop their universities, specifically  providing expertise to that end to Kenya and Lesotho; and, moreover, for our presidency of the European Union in the  year 2012 we have prepared initiatives in support of African universities seeking to develop and to connect with  European Union universities.
4.4 In the field of culture, Cyprus has concentrated its efforts on the promotion of the Convention for the  Safeguarding of the Intangible Cultural Heritage, which we consider an invaluable tool to preserve our cultural identity  and heritage in a rapidly changing global environment. As further indication of our commitment to the promotion of the  intangible heritage, in June 2008 we were elected for a four-year term as a member of the intergovernmental intangible  heritage Committee. In the past two years, the Government has continued to expand the inventory of Cyprus’ intangible  cultural heritage and, in cooperation with the Cyprus National Commission for UNESCO, has designed and implemented  an information campaign to familiarize the public with the concept of the intangible heritage. The campaign highlights the  need to safeguard the living heritage and expressions that define a community’s identity and form part of the cultural  heritage of humanity. Furthermore, the Government has continued its efforts to protect and preserve our island’s tangible  heritage, especially the archaeological sites and monuments on the World Heritage List. We hope that the negotiations  going on to resolve the Cyprus problem will have a happy end, as soon as possible, so that all people, all inhabitants of  Cyprus can enjoy the very rich cultural heritage that we have all over the island. Thank you very much.
5. The President:   I thank the Minister of Education and Culture of Cyprus for his remarks. His Excellency Mr Seyyed Mohammad  Hosseini, Minister of Culture and Islamic Guidance of the Islamic Republic of Iran, is our next speaker, and I give him the  floor.
6.1 Mr Hosseini (Islamic Republic of Iran) (address delivered in Persian; English text provided by the delegation):   In the name of God, Mr President of the General Conference, Mr Chair of the Executive Board, Mr Director- General of UNESCO, honourable heads of delegation, Excellencies, ladies and gentlemen, at the outset I would like to  take this opportunity to congratulate Mr Davidson Hepburn on his appointment as President of the 35th session of the  General Conference of UNESCO; while expressing my gratitude to His Excellency Mr George Anastassopoulos for his  extensive efforts in his capacity as President of the 34th session of the Conference. It is also my pleasure to hereby  announce the support of the Islamic Republic of Iran for the Executive Board’s nomination of Her Excellency Ms Irina  Bokova as candidate to the post of Director-General of UNESCO; while extending my sincere gratitude to Mr Koïchiro  Matsuura for his extensive endeavours in the promotion of UNESCO’s objectives and programmes throughout the past
10 years.
6.2 Ladies and gentlemen, the year 2010 is of prime importance for the Islamic Republic of Iran. In this year, the  International Year for the Rapprochement of Cultures, of which the Islamic Republic of Iran is a firm supporter, it is  necessary for appropriate measures to be taken for the promotion of peace, conciliation, friendship and rapprochement  among different nations, cultures and civilizations. It is thus very pleasing that in the course of human civilization, and  throughout time a multitude of Persian-speaking poets, writers, intellectuals, scientists, mystics and men of wisdom –  including prominent personalities belonging to the rich tapestry of Iranian civilization, such as Mawlana Jalaluddin Rumi,  Aburayhan Birouni, Razes Zakariya Razi, Roudaki, Ferdowsi, Hafiz and Sa’di – have succeeded through the Persian  language, the medium for friendship and conciliation among nations, promoting their humanist ideals at a global level,  and emphasizing the importance and riches of the Persian language in the rapprochement of cultural ideals. In this  regard we take for a good omen the synchronicity of 2010 with the millennium of the Persian-speaking Iranian poet  Ferdowsi’s eternal masterpiece, Shahnameh (Book of Kings). Mr President, dear colleagues, I believe that cultural
125  rapprochement should not be limited to and sought in theory only. It must be made operational and practical to the extent  that it penetrates all aspects of real life. In this perspective, I am glad to announce that the Islamic Republic of Iran, in
2010, will host World Philosophy Day, to be celebrated under the title “Philosophy: From Theory to Practice”, in an  attempt to prove the true link between the two. It seems that the link between theory and practice should not only be  extended to the various fields of culture, science and communication but, moreover, should be integrated into education  from primary through secondary to tertiary levels. Therefore, we are in favour of complete outreach by all to advanced  sciences and high technologies for the construction of knowledge societies in which the sciences, as a human  achievement, will not be limited to and encapsulated in a particular geographical area, and will be without any  discrimination or restriction whatsoever against nations accessing required knowledge and science. The Iranian  civilization, a cradle throughout human history to pioneers in such sciences as astronomy, medicine, chemistry and  mathematics, has played a prominent role in the transmission of sciences to all human civilizations, while being most  effective in the enhancement and promotion of Islamic sciences and the development of knowledge in the Orient. The  Islamic Republic of Iran thus expects this trend of science and technology transfer to become a smooth and continual  flow, while avoiding exclusivity or monopolization of any kind. We believe, in the light of the observance of ethical  principles in the fields of science and technology, that humanity will not be confronted with such restrictions and  exclusive attitudes. Here I have the honour to inform the General Conference that the Islamic Republic of Iran will  celebrate its third award ceremony for the Avicenna Prize for Ethics in Science.
6.3 As an organization promoting and encouraging just behaviour in international relations for the recognition of  sustainable peace and security, UNESCO is called upon to create appropriate grounds for equal education and the free  flow of ideas. The Islamic Republic of Iran will itself do its very best to help establish a just system in the fields of culture,  education, science and communication. The Islamic Republic of Iran sees the promotion of ethical norms and principles  as a necessity for the development of science and technology. My Government believes it of prime importance to take  account of ethical principles, given the current environmental problems and the phenomenon of climate change, so as to  pave the way for further development at the national and regional levels. Thus, the Islamic Republic of Iran emphasizes  the need to keep biodiversity in the Persian Gulf and insists on regional and international cooperation for the cleansing of  its waters in an attempt to conserve its environmental resources and to safeguard the rights of future generations. Thank  you for your attention.
7. The President:   I thank the Minister of Culture and Islamic Guidance of the Islamic Republic of Iran for his statements. Thank  you, Sir. The next speaker on my list is Her Excellency Ms Claudia Schmied, Minister of Education of Austria. I give her  the floor.
8.1 Ms Schmied (Austria):   Thank you very much. Mr President, Excellencies, ladies and gentlemen, please allow me to express my  warmest gratitude to Mr Matsuura for his efforts to promote UNESCO.
8.2 The United Nations’ key comparative advantage lies in its universality, in its multilateralism, and in its promotion  of core values and principles for worldwide peace and human security. Through the specialized agencies, the United  Nations are able to integrate normative work and operational analysis and approaches. UNESCO provides the platform  to address a full range of global issues relevant today and, in the current situation of the global economic crisis,  UNESCO is more relevant than ever. Austria has always strongly supported all efforts to improve the impact of the  United Nations and, referring to the statement of my Swedish colleague, I would like to stress the Austrian positions.
8.3 UNESCO’s two major priorities, Africa and gender equality, demand all our attention, ladies and gentlemen.  Access to education, respect for human rights and the promotion of gender equality are essential. Achieving the  Millennium Development Goals must not be sacrificed in favour of short-term measures citing the economic crisis. Ladies  and gentlemen, we are deeply convinced that equal access to education is a fundamental right. UNESCO’s work in this  field is, from our point of view, unique. Austria highly appreciates that education is still high on the agenda for both the  Organization and Member States, and in order to reach the education for all (EFA) goals, we have to increase our efforts.  We are therefore looking forward to the next meeting of the High-Level Group on EFA, hosted by the Government of  Ethiopia and the Commission of the African Union in Addis Ababa in February 2010. Austria, ladies and gentlemen, fully  supports UNESCO's implementation scheme for the United Nations Decade of Education for Sustainable Development
(2005-2014). Austria welcomes the proposal made by Hungary, by Minister Hiller, to proclaim a United Nations  international decade of languages.
8.4 In the culture sector, the promotion of cultural diversity, the safeguarding of our common heritage in all its  dimensions, and the dialogue of cultures are among Austria’s top priorities. The effective implementation of the relevant  UNESCO conventions is of major importance to us. We also attach great importance to the Memory of the World  Programme.
8.5 As for the field of the social and human sciences, Austria’s interests correspond closely with those of UNESCO,  endeavouring to encourage and disseminate human rights research, while at the same time promoting education in this  field. A free press, ladies and gentlemen, is one of most essential components of a democratic society. Freedom of  speech is a fundamental human right. UNESCO’s medium-term goal to establish integrated communication and  information policies in conformity with the principles of press freedom will help to create pluralistic media and free flow of  information.
8.6 UNESCO’s future, ladies and gentlemen, will be determined by its performance and action today. We must  ensure that UNESCO offers a forum of dialogue and consensus-building, and that UNESCO is able to envisage a  strategy focused on policy advice, standard-setting and capacity-building. In this context, I would like to congratulate
126  Ms Irina Bokova on her nomination as future Director-General, and I assure her of the full and entire support of my  country. Mr President, thank you very much. Let us act now. We have to invest in education and in culture and in the arts,  and we have to convince our ministers of finance. Thank you.
9. The President:   I thank the Minister of Education of Austria for her very good remarks. Our next speaker is His Excellency  Mr Stefan Wallin, Minister of Culture and Sport of Finland. I give him the floor.
10.1 Mr Wallin (Finland):   Thank you, Mr President, Mr Chair of the Executive Board, Mr Director-General, distinguished delegates, let me  start by saying that Finland fully concurs with the statement made by Sweden, by Minister Krantz, on behalf of the  European Union. Mr President, let me congratulate you on your election as President of this Conference. I assure you of  our full support. We cordially thank the outgoing President, Mr Anastassopoulos. We also extend our thanks to the Chair  of the Board, Mr Yaï.
10.2 Mr President, Finland is a strong supporter of UNESCO and therefore expects a lot from the Organization. To  that effect, our expectations and our vision for UNESCO’s Programme extending to 2013 are, in brief, the following.  Within the $653 million envelope, we would like to see a better balance between allocations for programmes and for  administration. There is a need to make further savings on the cost of administration. We seek more focus and  concentration for greater overall impact. Finland recognizes UNESCO’s proactive involvement in United Nations system- wide coherence and inter-agency consultations. Linked to this is a need for a clearer and more coherent decentralization  structure. Institutes such as the Institute for Statistics and the International Institute for Educational Planning should get a  bigger share from the regular budget, this at the expense of minor initiatives and institutes, which could even be closed.  In the future, we want to see a UNESCO that increasingly builds on strategic and thematic partnerships, including joint  programming, implementation and fund mobilization. This includes relations with civil society. We emphasize relevance  and tangible, quality results. In the next C/5 programmes, we want UNESCO to reduce its reliance on small-scale  projects, to move away from piecemeal approaches and, instead, to focus on upstream approaches for policy advice and  capacity-building. This goes for all programme areas. We place renewed emphasis on securing progress on the  management reform and the internal oversight. We call for cost-effectiveness and improved results-based management  and evaluation practices. Realities also require that we all, together, keep on rationalizing the working methods of the  three organs, including the Executive Board.
10.3 Mr President, climate change is not exclusively an environmental challenge. Cross-cutting areas of sustainable  development, human rights, including freedom of expression and the press, and gender equality need to be taken  properly into account. I stress gender equality, not just because that issue is part of my portfolio in the Finnish  Government, but because the promotion of gender equality and the safeguarding of human rights by women and girls  are important goals in their own right. Here, UNESCO’s Priority Gender Equality Action Plan could be even bolder in  setting benchmarks and indicators. Women are key actors and agents of change. Heading towards the MDG Review  Summit in 2010, we need to prioritize the internationally agreed development goals, the most disadvantaged and  vulnerable, as well as gender equality and Africa. Access to educational opportunities is a right, it is not a privilege.  UNESCO should work further on its global mandate to coordinate and develop quality education for all. We should also  like to step up UNESCO’s role as the world organization for culture. Culture is too often neglected in poverty-reduction  strategies, even though it is a key component of sustainable development. Here, a top priority is the implementation of  the Convention on the Protection and Promotion of the Diversity of Cultural Expressions. UNESCO is also well placed to  take on a more active role in intercultural dialogue.
10.4 Mr President, Finland believes that a comprehensive external evaluation of UNESCO is instrumental in helping  us reach our shared objectives. We must assure that in the coming years UNESCO is in a position to provide a systemic  approach to responding to the global challenges and the financial crisis; a forum for dialogue and consensus-building;  and a programme focused on policy advice, capacity-building and harnessing knowledge for development.
10.5 I would like to conclude this statement by thanking you, Mr Director-General, for your commitment to UNESCO.  We look forward to advancing your initiatives and reform, and also our revision with your successor. Thank you for your  attention.
(11) The President (translation from the Spanish):   The next speaker on the list is His Excellency, Mr Abel Prieto, Cuban Minister for Culture. You have the floor, Sir.
(12.1) Mr Prieto (Cuba) (translation from the Spanish):   Mr President Davidson Hepburn, my country welcomes with satisfaction your election as head of this 35th session of  the General Conference. We are proud that, as a representative of our region, you are presiding over these sessions and we  will gladly cooperate to ensure your success.
(12.2) Mr President, the world is currently experiencing one of the most severe economic and financial crises in its history  with serious food, energy, environmental and also ethical complications. The efforts being made in many countries of the  South to achieve educational development, make progress in the fight against preventable and curable diseases, place  science at the service of their development and preserve their indigenous culture and values have been threatened not only by  a lack of economic and material resources but also by an unjust and imbalanced international order imposed by the countries  of the North which, besides having been the cause of this critical situation, persist in maintaining a destructive and wasteful  consumer model and are doing very little, very little indeed, to alleviate the effects that their own actions have had on two- thirds of humanity.
(12.3) It is the role of the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization to contribute decisively to filling  this void in cooperation. Solidarity should be UNESCO’s motto today. This Organization can only fulfil its objectives and goals  and become a leading force in support of educational, scientific and cultural development, much needed in this world in crisis,  through the implementation of more supportive international cooperation policies mainly focused on humankind. Let us look at  just one example (I used it this morning at the Conference of Ministers): literacy is a right to which one fifth of the planet’s adult  population is still denied access. How many resources is the Organization really dedicating to combating illiteracy on the  ground?
(12.4) Cuba, as you know, a little country blockaded by the most powerful power on the planet, a little underdeveloped  country facing the effects of the world economic crisis, can answer this question. With its literacy method, four million people,  formerly illiterate, in 28 Latin American, Caribbean, African, European, and Oceanic countries, can now exercise their right to  read and write. Cuba again reiterates its proposal to provide UNESCO with the literacy teaching method entitled “Yo sí puedo”,
128  the efficiency of which has been acknowledged in different decisions adopted within the Organization but which has been  pushed aside in favour of other eligible initiatives with definite propagandistic components whose practical results are yet to be  seen.
(12.5) Mention has certainly already been made of the essential role that UNESCO has to play in the fight against climate  change, which is the most serious and urgent problem being faced by humanity and which is putting the survival of the human  race in peril. UNESCO should develop actions that facilitate free access to scientific knowledge and which bring about  solutions to major environmental, health, educational, housing and energy problems, among others.
(12.6) Cuba acknowledges UNESCO’s efforts in the field of culture. We appreciate the assistance provided to us for the  restoration of historical sites and cultural institutions after the damage caused by three terrible hurricanes in 2008 which cost  us, in addition to the global economic crisis, 20% of our gross domestic product.
(12.7) Special mention should be made of the terrible ethical crisis that the world is experiencing today. It was born of the  very essence of the capitalist system and the media have an enormous responsibility with regards to it. These media  systematically encourage egotism. The idea that a person can watch a war on television provided that the misfortune falls  upon someone else, upon a fellow man, shows urgent need of a new economic order in the field of communication and  information. There is a need for responsible journalism with professional ethics that is not controlled by those in power but  serves those who need it the most and who are working to defend justice and real freedom. We need journalism that can face  up to the censorship inflicted by governments seizing power through coups d’état, like the terrible one that just occurred in  Honduras.
(12.8) Cuba strives daily to validate the precepts that maintain the very essence of UNESCO and I can assure you Mr  President, that I speak with the hope that we can have an Organization that is stronger and more committed to the cause of  the people and of its main founders. Thank you. I am sorry that the musical signal spoilt the end of my statement. Thank you.
(13.1) The President (translation from the Spanish):   Thank you very much Mr Minister. Allow me to add that music is essential for the soul.  (The President continues in English)
13.2 The next speaker on the agenda is His Excellency Mr Lynpo Thkur Powdyel, Minister of Education of Bhutan. I  give him the floor.
14.1 Mr Powdyel (Bhutan):   Mr President, Your Excellencies, distinguished delegates, ladies and gentlemen, allow me, on behalf of my  delegation, to congratulate you, Mr President, on your election to your very important post. We have every reason to  believe that under your leadership we will be able to respond effectively to the many challenges our Organization faces,  and to advance the dreams of the founding fathers. I assure Your Excellency of my delegation’s complete support and  cooperation in all your endeavours. My delegation would also like to express a deep appreciation to the outgoing  President, His Excellency Mr George Anastassopoulos, for the exemplary manner in which he guided the tremendous  work of the 34th session of the General Conference.
14.2 Mr President, this august gathering would be aware that since participating in the last session of the Conference,  many far-reaching changes have taken place in my country, particularly the graceful transition from benevolent monarchy  to a constitutional democracy. The transfer of power from the King to the people came at a time when the country was  enjoying exceptional peace and a sense of collective well-being. Mr President, it could hardly be a coincidence that the  sublime ideas that led to the founding of the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization some six  decades ago are at the heart of my country’s development philosophy of gross national happiness. In a world long  accustomed to measuring success by the yardstick of gross domestic product, Bhutan believes that the most basic  needs of human beings are not necessarily physical or material and that there are other, more fundamental, spiritual,  psychological, social, cultural, moral, aesthetic and environmental dimensions, among others, that make life worthwhile  and that need to be cultivated and nurtured. The cardinal pillars of gross national happiness are therefore: an equitable  socio-economic development, conservation of the natural environment, preservation and promotion of culture and good  governance, ideas that sustain the work of UNESCO as well. This is the reason why Bhutan's relationship with this world  body assumes a special significance. Since our membership of UNESCO, Bhutan has benefited immensely from its  support in many areas, particularly education and culture.
14.3 2009 has been a special year for the cause of education in my country. In conferring on Bhutan the Honourable  Mention of the 2009 UNESCO-Confucius Prize for Literacy, UNESCO has affirmed our work in the area of non-formal  education. Bhutan views the importance of non-formal education as on a par with formal education. The Royal  Government of Bhutan’s vigorous implementation of its non-formal education programme has opened an avenue for  learning for those of our fellow citizens who missed the bus when they were young. Being able to read and write has  enabled thousands of housewives and adult men to lead more fulfilling lives and to participate more meaningfully in the  life of their community, thereby contributing to national development. Mr President, Bhutan is pleased to report that it is  right on track with regard to the achievement of many of its Millennium Development Goals, with particular focus on the  UNESCO priority area of education for all. Inspired by UNESCO designating the year 2009 as the International Year of  Astronomy and 2011 as the International Year of Chemistry, Bhutan's Minister of Education has declared 2009-2010 to  be the Year of Science and Technology.
14.4 Mr President, culture has been the very life force of my country since time immemorial. Our rich cultural heritage  has given our nation and our people an identity and a personality that is uniquely Bhutanese. Our art and architecture,  our language and culture, our music, our dance, our sports and games, customs and costumes, rights and rituals, beliefs
129  and superstitions, our view and vision, our ceremonies and celebrations, values and voice, all form our identity as a  nation and a people. Preservation and promotion of cultural heritage rightfully stands as one of the four cardinal pillars of  our gross national development philosophy. As a happy coincidence, the National Museum of Asian Arts in Paris is  currently showcasing The Dragon’s Gift – the Sacred Arts of Bhutan.
14.5 Even as I speak to you, though, a large section of my fellow citizens stand reeling under the shock of the  devastating earthquake that hit the eastern part of my country on 22 September 2009. The quake, measuring 6.3 on the  Richter scale, left a spectacle of death and destruction unprecedented in living memory. Hundreds of our people have no  homes to return to, and the monasteries and dzongs they turn to in times of danger are in a state of ruin too. Centuries- old spiritual centres, including the Drametse Lhakhang – home of the famous Drametse Nyacham, a UNESCO  masterpiece of the oral and intangible heritage – and hundreds of Buddhist stupas, have been severely damaged and  many of our people have lost their spiritual and symbolic security. Even as we are assessing the full extent of the  devastation and the cost of rebuilding lives and property, we see the scale of the destruction is beyond repair. On behalf  of my government, I would like to appeal to the custodians of the cultural heritage of humankind, UNESCO and its  Member States, institutions, individuals and friends, to rise at our hour of need and help us rebuild lives and spiritual and  cultural centres that mean so much to our people.
14.6 Mr President, I would like to place on record Bhutan’s commendations to the Director-General, His Excellency  Mr Koïchiro Matsuura, for his wise and effective stewardship of UNESCO. At a time in history when things seem to be  falling apart and the centre does not seem to hold, Bhutan affirms its commitment to the ideals of UNESCO, as the  conscience of the world, beckoning humanity to a higher goal and a noble vision. The ideas enshrined in the Constitution  of UNESCO are as relevant and essential today as they were when the great minds conceived and crafted them in  response to the desolation of Second World War. Bhutan remains firmly convinced that we took a giant step forward in  becoming a part of the UNESCO family nearly three decades ago. We assure the incoming Director-General of our full  cooperation and support as we guide our humanity’s hope in marshalling and celebrating the creative genius of the  human race to make our world a better place to live in. This is the only world we have. As in the language of Carl  Sandburg, “There is only one man in the world and his name is All Men. There is only one woman in the world and her  name is All Women. There was only one child in the world and the child's name is All Children”. UNESCO owes it to this  world family to be the moral and intellectual force to guide its destiny. History will record what we make of this  momentous call. Thank you very much, Mr President.  Ms Bogyay (Hungary) takes the Chair.
15. The President:   I thank His Excellency the Minister of Education of Bhutan for his statement. Our next speaker is the Minister of  Education and Culture of Hungary, His Excellency Mr István Hiller. The floor is yours.
16.1 Mr Hiller (Hungary):   Madam President, Mr Director-General, ladies and gentlemen, dear colleagues, today we are participating in an  important period of the transformation of the United Nations, including UNESCO. The reform process launched in the  past decade by Director-General Koïchiro Matsuura has been an undisputed achievement to make UNESCO able to  efficiently tackle the challenges of our time. We must together outline UNESCO’s vision for the coming years.  Consensus-building, a humanist approach, human dignity, human rights and diversity springing from common roots, all  form the foundation of the Organization's unique mission. We consider it essential for the Organization to further  strengthen its leading intellectual role within the United Nations system, preserving at the same time the universal values  formulated over six decades ago. We wish the upcoming Director-General every success in achieving these goals. In the  past few years, Hungary's presence at UNESCO has been defined by its membership of the Executive Board. It is to our  great satisfaction that in this important period the Board, in cooperation with the General Conference and the Secretariat,  has been participating in the management of the Organization in a constructive and complementary manner.
16.2 Ensuring the right to education is one of UNESCO’s top priorities. In December 2008, Hungary had the honour  of hosting the European Regional Conference preparing for the sixth International World Conference on Adult Education  (CONFINTEA). We look forward to the conclusion of CONFINTEA VI in Belem and the most extensive possible  framework for adult education. In this context, support for multilingual education should receive particular attention.  Language policies guaranteeing mother tongue education are indispensable to reaching the education for all (EFA)  Goals. UNESCO has always played a lead role in promoting a comprehensive approach to the cultural, educational and  information-related aspects of language protection, and we intend to emphasize this function in the future.
16.3 The fourth World Science Forum to be held, as always, in Budapest, and co-sponsored by UNESCO, in  November 2009, will celebrate the 10th anniversary of the first World Conference on Science. Participants at the event,  on the theme “knowledge and future”, will review the results achieved so far and discuss future work with collaboration  between scientific and educational institutions, political decision-makers and civil society. This year again, special  emphasis will be placed on the participation of developing countries. Among other scientific programmes, the  international conference held in Budapest as part of the International Year of Astronomy presented astronomy as a  fundamental source of knowledge, and its impact on philosophy, comparative religion and the arts.
16.4 We attach the utmost importance to the fact that UNESCO regards culture as a pillar of sustainable  development. The Hungarian Government encourages the complementary operation of the six cultural conventions, as it  believes this to be the only way to reduce tensions among peoples and social groups stemming from cultural differences.  Having recognized the challenges attached to the preservation and sustainable use of world heritage sites, the  Hungarian Government is elaborating a National World Heritage Act. It gives us a great pleasure that, at its recent  meeting in Abu Dhabi, the Intangible Heritage Committee inscribed the Mohács busójárás, an ethnic masked ritual, on its
130  Representative List. We also note with great satisfaction that the Bolyai-Appendix, one of the outstanding achievements  of mathematical literature, and the Csoma Archives have been incorporated into the UNESCO Memory of the World  Register in 2009.
16.5 Dear colleagues, it is our hope that an exchange of a wide range of ideas at the 35th session of the General  Conference will promote the effective implementation of a shared political will, while preserving one of the exemplary  achievements of this Organization: a decision-making process based on understanding, cooperation and consensus.  Thank you for your attention.
17. The President:   Your Excellency, thank you very much for your statement. Our next speaker will be the Secretary of State for  Higher Education, Sciences and Technology of Slovenia, His Excellency Mr Jozsef Györkös. The floor is yours.
18.1 Mr Györkös (Slovenia):   Thank you, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of Slovenia and on myself, I would like to  express our gratitude to the Director-General, Mr Koïchiro Matsuura, for his efforts as the head of our Organization.  Speaking at the General Conference that will elect our new Director-General, it seems appropriate to focus on the future  of UNESCO. By many, UNESCO is seen by many as an important and esteemed global governance organization with  paramount issues on human development at the core of its mandate in the field of education, science, culture and the  knowledge society. But this is also the reason why it is vulnerable and susceptible to the demands of today’s times and  the globalized world, as well as to the changes in the agenda of the international community. UNESCO can face these  challenges only if its reactions are swift and efficient. This, however, can only be achieved with a more flexible  organizational structure and programme, and with stronger support from the international intellectual community. The  strength of UNESCO lies, as always, in its moral and intellectual solidarity, and again we would like to underline the  comparative advantage of its network of National Commissions, which are the perfect tool both for UNESCO and its  Member States, and which deserve both their appreciation and support. The task for UNESCO in the future is to  preserve its universality, supported by reform of its financial management, central services and programme management.  UNESCO must be operational, with efficient governance, and we look up to our new Director-General to continue with  the reforms and retain its intellectual openness.
18.2 Turning to the Programme and Budget for the next two years, we call again for closer cooperation with other  international organizations and so on. Slovenia strongly believes that programmes and activities that help create a  knowledge society and contribute to sustainable development, among others, should be central to UNESCO in the years  to come. Particular attention should be given to education for peace, human rights and dialogue among the young.  UNESCO can be proud of its flagship Associated Schools Project Network.
18.3 Respect for cultural diversity is paramount for the sustainable development of societies, and we should all  extend our support to the implementation of the Convention on the Protection and Promotion of the Diversity of Cultural  Expressions. Slovenia welcomes the measures for a holistic approach to the protection, safeguarding and promotion of  that diversity. Language, as an essential communication tool, is an important element of cultural diversity, and Slovenia  is firmly convinced that all essential information and knowledge should be accessible to everyone in his or her mother  tongue.
18.4 The World Conference on Higher Education organized by UNESCO this year, and the preparatory meetings  preceding the event, showed how higher education and science are interrelated and interdependent. Following the  results of this and other world conferences on the subjects, UNESCO should aim to help Member States and the  international higher education and scientific communities to create conditions for the use of science in social  development.
18.5 Finally, allow me to express our sincere support for the Director-General elect, Madam Irina Bokova. Thank you  for your attention.
19. The President:   Thank you very much. We have just heard a statement from the Secretary of State of Higher Education,  Sciences and Technology of Slovenia, His Excellency Mr Jozsef Györkös. Our next speaker is the Minister of Basic  Education of Cameroon, Her Excellency Ms Youssouf Hadidja Alim. The floor is yours.
20.1 Mme Youssouf (Cameroun) :  Monsieur le Président de la Conférence générale, Monsieur le Président du Conseil exécutif, Monsieur le  Directeur général de l’UNESCO, Mesdames et Messieurs les ministres et chefs de délégation, Excellences, Mesdames  et Messieurs. C’est pour moi un honneur et un immense plaisir de prendre la parole au nom du Cameroun dans cette  prestigieuse enceinte, et de voir cette auguste assemblée réunie à l’occasion de la 35e session de la Conférence  générale de l’UNESCO. Je voudrais tout d’abord joindre ma voix à celle des éminents orateurs qui m’ont précédée du  haut de cette tribune, pour présenter toutes mes félicitations à M. Davidson Hepburn pour sa brillante élection aux  fonctions de Président de la 35e session de la Conférence générale de l’UNESCO, succédant ainsi au docteur Georges  Anastassopoulos, qui a su présider avec dévouement et compétence la 34e session de la Conférence. Nous exprimons  le souhait que sous la conduite de M. Hepburn, les travaux de la 35e session de la Conférence générale connaissent un  grand succès.
20.2 Cette session de la Conférence générale est exceptionnelle à plus d’un titre. Elle marque la fin du mandat de  M. Koïchiro Matsuura, qui a dirigé notre Organisation au cours des dix dernières années. Elle est aussi marquée par  l’arrivée de Mme Irina Bokova, que le Conseil exécutif a désignée pour lui succéder. Je voudrais saisir l’opportunité qui  m’est offerte pour féliciter le Directeur général sortant pour le travail remarquable qu’il a accompli tout au long de ses
131  deux mandats avec détermination et engagement, tant au niveau de la réorganisation du Secrétariat qu’à celui de la  conduite de la décentralisation.
20.3 En effet, au cours de l’exercice de ses fonctions, les rapports entre le Cameroun, mon pays, et l’UNESCO, ont  été particulièrement fructueux et excellents. L’excellence de ces relations s’est matérialisée ces dernières années entre  autres par le renforcement du Bureau sous-régional de l’UNESCO implanté à Yaoundé, tant en ressources humaines  avec l’affectation de nouveaux experts, en l’occurrence celui chargé de la communication, qu’en ce qui concerne les  moyens mis à sa disposition ; par la mise en place et le soutien du Centre d’excellence des expériences de micro  sciences ; par les deux visites que le Directeur général a effectuées au Cameroun, respectivement en janvier 2004 et en  janvier 2009 ; par la visite officielle effectuée auprès de cette auguste institution par Son Excellence M. Paul Biya,  Président de la République du Cameroun, lors de la 34e session de la Conférence générale ; par le renforcement de la  coopération entre le Centre international de recherche Chantal Biya et l’UNESCO – c’est le lieu pour moi de transmettre  les sincères remerciements de Mme Chantal Biya, Première Dame du Cameroun, à l’UNESCO et au Gouvernement  italien pour l’appui constant qu’ils ne cessent d’apporter à ce centre – et par la nomination en 2008, de Madame Chantal  Biya, Première Dame du Cameroun et Présidente de la « Fondation Synergies africaines contre le SIDA et les  souffrances » en qualité d’Ambassadrice de bonne volonté de l’UNESCO pour l’éducation et l’inclusion sociale, titre qui  lui a été conféré en reconnaissance de son engagement dans la lutte contre l’exclusion sociale, notamment par  l’éducation préventive contre le VIH/SIDA et sa contribution à la promotion des idéaux de l’Organisation.
20.4 Monsieur le Président de la Conférence générale, Monsieur le Président du Conseil exécutif, Monsieur le  Directeur général de l’UNESCO, Mesdames et Messieurs les ministres et chefs de délégation, Excellences, Mesdames  et Messieurs, cette session de la Conférence générale de l’UNESCO se tient au lendemain de la désignation par le  Conseil exécutif de Mme Irina Bokova pour succéder à M. Koïchiro Matsuura. L’arrivée de Mme Irina Bokova à la tête de  l’UNESCO constitue un moment historique dans la vie de notre Organisation qui promeut l’égalité des genres, politique  que soutient fermement le Cameroun. Mme Bokova est la première femme à occuper ce poste. Nous lui souhaitons, par  anticipation de sa prise de fonctions, beaucoup de succès. Quant à M. Koïchiro Matsuura, Directeur général sortant, je  voudrais lui renouveler par ma voix, les vœux du Cameroun afin qu’il connaisse dans ses entreprises futures, autant de  réussite que celle qu’il a connue tout au long de sa mission à la tête de l’UNESCO.
20.5 Comme je le disais tantôt, Son Excellence M. Paul Biya, Président de la République du Cameroun, s’est  adressé aux participants à la 34e Conférence générale. Après avoir évoqué les préoccupations majeures auxquelles  notre planète est actuellement confrontée, notamment les problèmes environnementaux et climatiques, les grandes  pandémies, les guerres et le terrorisme, il interpellait notre Organisation en ces termes, je cite « Les pays en  développement de manière générale, les États insulaires et côtiers, notamment en Afrique, sont particulièrement  exposés à ces menaces. Ils méritent pour cela une attention particulière de la part de notre Organisation qui se doit de  leur manifester sa solidarité en raison des handicaps que constituent pour leur développement l’inégalité des termes de  l’échange et le poids de l’endettement », fin de citation.
20.6 Le Projet de programme de ce budget soumis à l’approbation de la Conférence générale s’inscrit en droite ligne  de cet appel à la solidarité et à l’entente. L’Afrique et l’égalité des genres y figurent au rang de première priorité. La  décentralisation est appelée à se poursuivre et le Cameroun est particulièrement sensible à la poursuite de cette  politique.
20.7 Permettez-moi à ce niveau de vous faire connaître quelques réalisations concrètes, fruits de l’excellente  coopération avec l’UNESCO. Avec l’appui fourni par l’UNESCO à travers son Bureau de Yaoundé, le Cameroun figure  parmi les premiers pays africains à être dotés d’un Plan d’action national Éducation pour tous et d’une Stratégie du  secteur de l’éducation, qui a permis à mon pays de pouvoir prétendre au financement de l’Initiative pour la mise en  œuvre accélérée de l’Éducation pour tous. Sous la coordination et la supervision technique du Bureau de Yaoundé, des  programmes d’éducation au VIH/SIDA, notamment des curricula et guides pédagogiques, ont été élaborés, harmonisés  et validés par les ministres en charge de l’éducation de la CEMAC. Les ministères en charge de l’éducation, grâce à  l’appui multiforme du Bureau de Yaoundé, ne ménagent aucun effort pour promouvoir l’égalité des genres et  l’autonomisation des femmes, le renforcement de la scolarisation des jeunes filles ainsi que la protection des minorités et  des personnes vulnérables, dans le but de lutter contre la pauvreté et de garantir le bien-être des populations.
20.8 L’appui de l’UNESCO a également permis la mise en œuvre des plans de gestion de sites inscrits sur la Liste du  patrimoine mondial et le recensement des sites nationaux qui pourront, dans les prochaines années, être soumis à  l’Organisation pour être inscrits sur la Liste du patrimoine mondial. Dans le même registre, le Cameroun est membre du  Comité intergouvernemental pour la protection et la promotion de la diversité des expressions culturelles, et bénéficie du  soutien de l’UNESCO pour consolider la culture de la paix et de la tolérance, lui qui compte plus de 200 ethnies et  langues. L’UNESCO participe activement à la création de radios communautaires au Cameroun, à leur équipement et à  la formation des gestionnaires et des animateurs et animatrices de ces structures.
20.9 Le Cameroun se félicite par ailleurs du soutien de l’UNESCO à la politique de la jeunesse des États membres  en général, et du Cameroun en particulier, notamment en ce qui concerne la mise en œuvre du Programme d’appui à la  jeunesse rurale et urbaine. Dans le même ordre d’idées, des programmes pertinents de formation professionnelle  destinés à la jeunesse ont été élaborés, validés et mis en œuvre grâce à l’apport des entreprises de la société civile.  Dans le domaine du sport et de l’éducation physique, le Cameroun poursuit la mise en œuvre des recommandations  émanant du Comité intergouvernemental pour l’éducation physique et le sport, dont il a par ailleurs assuré la vice- présidence de 2005 à 2007. De même, dans les différents instituts nationaux de la jeunesse et des sports, les  programmes s’inspirent desdites recommandations.
20.10 En ce qui concerne l’enseignement supérieur, nous relevons pour nous en réjouir, la création de trois chaires  UNESCO, dont deux en sciences de l’éducation, installées respectivement à l’Université de Yaoundé I et à l’Université  de Buéa, et la troisième relative à la paix et aux droits de l’homme, sise à l’Université de Yaoundé II, à Soa. Le souhait  du Gouvernement camerounais est de voir ce genre de structures de formation universitaire se multiplier au grand  bénéfice de la jeunesse. Par ailleurs, le Cameroun se félicite du financement de divers projets de recherche qui viennent  renforcer la politique dans ce secteur.
20.11 Cette énumération m’amène à apprécier les progrès enregistrés ces dernières années au niveau du Bureau  multipays de Yaoundé dans le cadre de la décentralisation. Ses compétences se sont accrues, et les moyens mis à sa  disposition ont augmenté si l’on en juge par les activités menées. Notre souhait est qu’au cours du prochain exercice  biennal, ce Bureau soit davantage renforcé afin qu’il s’attache à retrouver son prestige des années 1990.
20.12 Enfin, le Projet de programme et de budget 2010-2011 soumis à l’approbation de la Conférence générale est  l’aboutissement d’une consultation qui a associé tous les États membres. Le recentrage et l’allégement des programmes  souhaités lors de la dernière session de la Conférence générale sont perceptibles. Le Cameroun y relève et soutient les  deux priorités primordiales qu’il présente, à savoir l’Afrique et l’égalité des genres. Pour cette dernière priorité,  l’innovation consistant à énoncer, pour chaque grand programme, des mesures d’intégration des questions d’égalité des  genres est particulièrement appréciable. Avec l’arrivée d’un nouveau Directeur général à la tête de l’UNESCO, le souhait  du Cameroun est qu’au cours de l’exercice biennal 2010-2011, nonobstant la crise économique qui sévit, l’UNESCO  continue les réformes engagées en vue de donner à cette Organisation plus de visibilité et de moyens pour satisfaire les  attentes des États membres et de leurs peuples. Je vous remercie de votre bienveillante attention.
21. The President:   Thank you very much. Our next speaker is the Minister of Education of Uganda, Her Excellency Ms Geraldine  Namirembe Bitamazire. The floor is yours.
22.1 Ms Bitamazire (Uganda):   Madam President, Mr Chair of the Executive Board, Mr Director-General, Excellencies, ladies and gentlemen, I  bring you warm greetings from President Yoweri Kaguta Museveni and from the Government and people of the Republic  of Uganda. My delegation, Madam President, congratulates the outgoing Director-General, Mr Koïchiro Matsuura, on his  successful ten years in office and wishes the new Director-General success in her term.
22.2 Madam President, the world today faces severe financial, economic and social crises, including climate change,  food shortages and disease epidemics, which put increased pressures on the budgets of UNESCO and its Member  States. Against this background, our UNESCO must devise new approaches and strategies for the management of  programmes and delivery of services; and the strategies and programmes must not, in the future, lose sight of the  attainment of education for all (EFA) and the Millennium Development Goals by 2015.
22.3 Madam President, Uganda supports the Director-General’s proposals in all five major programmes as reflected  in the C/5 document for 2010-2011. We note with appreciation the increase in the budget of $9.5 million for Programme I,  Education. Madam President, Uganda is on track with respect to universal primary education, with over 85% of the  school-age children enrolled. Since 2007, Uganda has also been implementing a four-year universal post-primary  education and training programme, giving youth in Uganda 11 years of basic education. The goal is to consolidate  literacy, numeracy, and life skills, and promote academic and intellectual growth among learners for sustainable  livelihoods and national development. Madam President, Uganda supports the Director-General on the following core  initiatives, which directly affect the attainment of EFA: HIV/AIDS interventions led by EDUCAIDS; the Literacy Initiative  for Empowerment (LIFE); the Teacher Training Initiative for Sub-Saharan Africa (TTISSA). However, we would like to  see accelerated and concerted action on all these initiatives. Youth in Uganda constitute 60% of the population and the  government faces the challenge of educating, training and engaging them in productive endeavours. My delegation,  Madam President, appreciates the Director-General’s programmes for youth and urges UNESCO to implement the youth  strategy. Reactivation of the Management of Social Transformations Programme (MOST) is one way to enhance  Member States’ efforts to address some of the problems in society, including those facing youth. Uganda has ratified the  International Convention Against Doping in Sport and supports UNESCO’s programmes on philosophy and bioethics  aimed at shaping societies thinking and behaviour, particularly among the young at school.
22.4 Madam President, the Government of Uganda embraces Major Programmes IV et V (Culture, and  Communication and information) as proposed in document 35 C/5. To this effect, Uganda has ratified the 2003  Convention for the Protection of the Intangible Cultural Heritage and is at an advanced stage in ratifying the 2005  Convention on the Protection and Promotion of the Diversity of Cultural Expressions.
22.5 Madam President, in pursuit of the spirit and commitment of UNESCO to “Delivering as One”, Uganda supports  the Director-General’s proposal to continue reforming the Organization. The reforms should particularly target better  delivery of services in Africa and gender equality, as proposed in document 35 C/5. They should also embrace the  strengthening and empowerment of National Commissions to give visibility to UNESCO programmes at the country level.  Madam President, Uganda is grateful to UNESCO for supporting several programmes in our country, namely on the use  of information and communication technologies (ICTs) in technical and vocational education, and on the development of  a local language dictionary.
22.6 Madam President, in conclusion I would like to pay tribute to Mr Koïchiro Matsuura for his dedicated and  relentless service to UNESCO. He has helped to maka the world more learned, more cultured, more informed and more  peaceful. I thank you for your attention. Thank you very much.
23. The President:   Thank you very much, your Excellency, for your statement. Our next speaker is the Secretary of State for  Foreign Affairs of Slovakia, Her Excellency Ms Olga Algayerová. The floor is yours.
24.1 Ms Algayerová (Slovakia):   Madam President, distinguished delegates, ladies and gentlemen, it is a great honour for me to address the  UNESCO General Conference, the supreme policy- and decision-making body of this universal Organization. Madam  President, at the outset I would like to congratulate Mr Hepburn on assuming his duties as the President of the 35th  session of the Conference. At the same time, let me express our appreciation to his predecessor, His Excellency George  Anastassopoulos, for the dedication and stewardship with which he guided the 34th session, and for the preparation of  this one, too.
24.2 Madam President, Slovakia fully associates itself with the statement delivered earlier by Sweden on behalf of the  European Union, and would like to present some additional remarks. Education, culture, science, communication and  information constitute an immediate part of our lives wherever we live and whatever we do. We see UNESCO as a  “spiritual sister” of the United Nations helping to fulfil the mandate of supervising peace and security, ensuring respect for  human rights and promoting economic and social development. Especially in the process of achieving the Millennium  Development Goals, UNESCO plays a significant role, whether related to eliminating illiteracy and poverty, or to  mitigating the negative effects of climate change. Madam President, let me briefly touch upon some main segments of  UNESCO activity and how Slovakia evaluates them from the global challenges point of view.
24.3 In education, the education for all (EFA) and education for sustainable development (ESD) programmes play a  decisive role. We share the opinion that we must focus on Africa and gender equality. Lifelong learning and improvement  of the quality of education are challenges that also require more attention from us politicians. Slovakia has good  experience with its Bratislava expert seminars on quality of education, which we would like to see incorporated into the  programme for 2010-2011, as well as into regular UNESCO regional conferences.
24.4 Culture and its diversity are the pillars of a nation, the maturity and advancement. We note with satisfaction the  work done by Member States, with the World Heritage Committee, to protect and promote unique world heritage. Since  the last session of the General Conference, Slovakia has successfully had inscribed on the World Heritage List two new  locations. It is both a pleasure and an obligation for us to ensure their appropriate protection.
24.5 UNESCO has an irreplaceable role in promoting universal respect for justice, the rule of law, human rights and  fundamental freedoms, above all freedom of press and freedom of expression, which need to be strengthened. The fall  of the Berlin Wall was the turning point for democratic change in Central and Eastern Europe, whose twentieth  anniversary, which we will commemorate shortly, is a lively reminder that we must continue promoting democratic  change worldwide.
24.6 Madam President, Slovakia is a keen believer in effective multilateralism and the central role of the United  Nations and its specialized agencies. Being able to serve as an active and engaged Member of UNESCO led us to  present our candidature for membership of the Executive Board for 2009-2013. We appreciate the endorsement of that  candidature by Members of the electoral group II and will seek to earn the trust and support of all. It is our wish and our  goal to contribute positively to making this important Organization as relevant and effective as possible.
24.7 Before concluding, allow me to express our gratitude to the outgoing Director-General Mr Koïchiro Matsuura,  under whose leadership a series of important reforms were accomplished and the activities of UNESCO became more  effective in many ways. Madam President, let me also congratulate Her Excellency Ms Irina Bokova on having been  nominated by the Executive Board as future Director-General. It is, for us, a great pleasure to see her not only as the first  successful candidate from our region, but also as the first woman ever chosen to head this Organization. Slovakia looks  forward to working with her very closely and will support her in the execution of her future very challenging yet unique  mandate. Thank you, Madam President.  Mr Hepburn resumes the Chair.
25. The President:   I thank the Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs of Slovakia for her remarks. The next speaker on my list is the  Secretary of State for Education of the Netherlands, Her Excellency Ms Sharon Dijksma.
26.1 Ms Dijksma (Netherlands):   Mr President, Your Excellencies, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for this opportunity to speak to you all. I am  happy to align myself fully with the statement made by Sweden on behalf of the European Union.
26.2 We trust that this General Conference will decide on a comprehensive and forward-looking evaluation of  UNESCO. The Netherlands is prepared to contribute financially to the evaluation and urges other Member States to do  the same. But this is core business, so most should be financed from UNESCO’s regular budget. In the plenary  ministerial forum today, I was given the opportunity to give a presentation as a keynote speaker on the challenges we  face and the role UNESCO should take to tackle them. Challenges like education for all (EFA) and protection of the  cultural and natural heritage need international cooperation. UNESCO is not the only organization to tackle these  challenges. So what should UNESCO focus on? In short, UNESCO should focus on a limited number of tasks that  cannot be performed as well or better at a national or local level by any other international organization or by civil society.
26.3 This brings me to my second question: is UNESCO, the way it is currently organized, able to fulfil all its tasks in  an effective manner? My answer is no. Of course, much of the work UNESCO does is essential and world-class, but with  regard to the main issues on our agenda, our contribution is still insufficient. An important reason for this is that the
134  relationship between the Member States and the Secretariat has been turned upside down. UNESCO has become an  international secretariat supported by Member States instead of an organization of Member States supported by a  secretariat. Please allow me to share a few suggestions with you as to how to get the responsibility back to the Member  States. Why do we not change the General Conference, for example, into a forum to discuss the plans of Member States?  Because let us be honest: it is we, the Member States, and not the Secretariat, who have to solve the major problems in  the fields of education, science and culture. Furthermore, I believe we should make better use of our permanent  delegations. Most of them, that is those not on the Executive Board, only have one opportunity, every two years, to play  their formal role as owners of this Organization, and that could easily be repaired by regularly convening the General  Conference at the level of permanent delegations once a month to discuss one or more specific items, for example.
26.4 Ladies and gentlemen, the matters of UNESCO’s future and how we deal with the challenges today and  tomorrow are our responsibility as Member States. For us to succeed, we, the Member States, should not try to shift the  responsibility to the Secretariat but take it on our own shoulders, leaving to the Secretariat the important role of  supporting us in our endeavours. That way, we can really make a difference in this world. Thank you very much for your  attention.
27. The President:   Thank you, Madam, for your interesting remarks. And now I give the floor to His Excellency Mr Alfredo Mantica,  Deputy Minister of Foreign Affairs of Italy. You have the floor, Sir.
28.1 M. Mantica (Italie) (discours prononcé en italien ; texte français fourni par la délégation) :   Monsieur le Président de la Conférence générale, Monsieur le Directeur général, Mesdames et Messieurs,  l’Italie s’associe à la déclaration du Président de l’Union européenne. Monsieur le Président, je voudrais tout d’abord  vous adresser mes plus vives félicitations au nom du Gouvernement italien pour votre élection à la présidence de cette  Conférence générale. Nous sommes heureux que ce poste ait été attribué à un éminent représentant d’un État insulaire  des Caraïbes qui, par le passé, a déjà joué un rôle important au sein de l’Organisation.
28.2 L’UNESCO se trouve aujourd’hui à une sorte de croisée des chemins. Le mandat décennal du Directeur général  M. Matsuura a marqué, dans la vie de cette grande Organisation, une étape cruciale dont nous pouvons aujourd’hui  apprécier, à sa juste valeur, toute la dynamique d’expansion. Beaucoup a été fait pour renforcer le caractère universel de  l’Organisation, pour introduire de nouvelles formes de programmation et de contrôle, pour positionner l’UNESCO dans le  cadre de la réforme du système des Nations Unies. Nous pensons donc qu’il est prioritaire de poursuivre la réforme et  de rationaliser les coûts, surtout afférents au fonctionnement en tant que tel de notre Organisation.
28.3  L’UNESCO se situe parmi les organisations à vocation mondiale qui peuvent compter sur tout un corpus  normatif tourné vers l’avenir, notamment en ce qui concerne la culture. Je voudrais ici me référer plus particulièrement à  la Convention de l’UNESCO sur la protection et la promotion de la diversité des expressions culturelles, qui a été  adoptée il y a quatre ans à une très large majorité dans cette même salle. Nous sommes convaincus que la culture  représente aujourd’hui une industrie destinée à assumer un poids croissant dans l’économie de tous les pays et qu’il  s’agit en outre d’un vecteur puissant de progrès civil et de cohésion sociale pour tous les peuples.
28.4 Monsieur le Président, à l’invitation du Directeur général M. Matsuura et en collaboration avec le Secrétariat,  l’Italie a accueilli récemment dans la ville royale de Monza, le premier Forum mondial de l’UNESCO sur la culture et les  industries culturelles. Il s’agit là d’une initiative qui a offert de nombreuses possibilités de rencontres et d’échanges entre  créateurs et réalisateurs, entre partenariats publics et privés et, entre les pays du Nord et les pays du Sud de la planète.  J’ai par ailleurs le grand plaisir de rappeler, avec un regard tourné vers l’avenir, un projet qui, sur la base d’une  collaboration exemplaire entre l’Italie, l’Éthiopie et l’UNESCO, a permis la réinstallation de l’obélisque d’Axoum dans son  lieu d’origine. Pareille réalisation constitue un modèle novateur de collaboration entre les États dans le domaine de la  sauvegarde du patrimoine culturel mondial.
28.5  Monsieur le Président, en sa qualité d’institution des Nations Unies dotée d’un mandat spécifique, l’UNESCO  dépasse la dimension monothématique en réalisant la synthèse entre quatre domaines d’activité réellement stratégiques  pour l’avenir de l’humanité. Clé de voûte de l’élévation de la condition humaine dans un esprit de liberté et de conscience  civile, l’éducation demeure pour l’UNESCO la priorité des priorités. Elle est la voie principale qu’il faut emprunter pour  vaincre la pauvreté, en accord avec les Objectifs du Millénaire pour le développement. L’Italie soutient avec conviction le  programme EPT, qui a bénéficié de tout son appui pendant sa présidence du G8, et en particulier lors du Sommet de  l’Aquila. Elle a toujours attribué un rôle important à l’éducation et versé dans ce domaine des contributions volontaires  qui font du Gouvernement italien le premier donateur de l’UNESCO.
28.6 Monsieur le Président, la diffusion de la science et de la technologie est essentielle, non seulement pour  prévenir les catastrophes naturelles et les menaces provenant de phénomènes qui n’ont pas encore trouvé de réponse  adéquate, mais également pour promouvoir le développement durable et réduire le fossé Nord-Sud. À cet égard, l’Italie  est fière d’héberger à Trieste, depuis la lointaine année 1964, le Centre de physique théorique Abdus Salam, spécialisé  dans la formation postuniversitaire de chercheurs des pays en développement.
28.7 L’immense tragédie qui a frappé la région du Pacifique, aux populations de laquelle j’exprime des sentiments de  sincère solidarité, souligne avec force l’exigence d’un forum multilatéral comme l’UNESCO qui, grâce à ses organes  spécialisés, peut contribuer à la gouvernance mondiale, face à des problèmes à caractère global.
28.8 Monsieur le Président, le Conseil exécutif a désigné une Directrice générale, qui sera la première femme  appelée à diriger notre Organisation. Mme l’Ambassadrice Bokova devra œuvrer dans un contexte caractérisé par la  difficulté de sortir d’une crise économique et financière mondiale, parallèlement à une perte d’orientation dans le  domaine des valeurs. Nous savons, toutefois, que le Secrétariat se trouvera entre de bonnes mains durant les quatre
135  années à venir, et nous avons foi dans le « nouvel humanisme » qui guidera l’action de la future Directrice générale, à  laquelle l’Italie ne manquera pas d’apporter tout son appui. Je vous remercie, Monsieur le Président.
29. The President:   Thank you very much, Sir, for your important remarks. The next speaker on my list is His Excellency Mr Peter  Ammon, Deputy Minister of Foreign Affairs of Germany. You have the floor, Sir.
30.1 M. Ammon (Allemagne) :  Monsieur le Président, Excellences, Mesdames et Messieurs, j’aimerais commencer par vous féliciter, Monsieur  le Président, pour votre élection à ce poste de responsabilité, et vous adresser mes meilleurs vœux de succès pour les  tâches qui vous attendent. Votre élection reflète l’importance que revêtent les représentants des petits États et des États  insulaires. Je souhaiterais également remercier votre prédécesseur pour le travail fructueux qu'il a accompli ces deux  dernières années.
30.2 Dans un premier temps, je voudrais souligner que ma délégation s’associe à la déclaration faite par la Suède au  nom de l'Union européenne. Notre monde a profondément changé depuis la dernière session de la Conférence générale.  Nous vivons une ère de rupture : la crise économique et financière, les répercussions du changement climatique qui  menace de rayer des pays entiers de la carte, la pénurie croissante de ressources et la pauvreté sont autant de défis qui  nous sont posés.
30.3 J’aimerais que l’UNESCO surmonte ces défis. Premièrement, en se concentrant sur ses mandats fondamentaux  que sont l’éducation, la culture, les sciences et la communication. Deuxièmement, en fixant des priorités claires dans le  cadre de ses mandats fondamentaux, en s’engageant résolument en faveur des droits de l’homme et en faisant  davantage connaître son travail à l’opinion publique internationale. Et troisièmement, en assumant, pour ses thèmes  prioritaires, un rôle directeur au sein du système des Nations Unies. L’ONU a besoin d’une UNESCO forte.
30.4 Nous souhaitons que l’UNESCO ait une orientation stratégique claire. Ce n’est qu’ensemble que nous pourrons  parvenir à la définir. L’Allemagne continuera d’aider activement l’UNESCO et ses commissions à propager un savoir qui  permette d’affronter l’avenir.  (L’orateur poursuit en anglais)
30.5 Within our overall international cooperation, Germany will make available €160 million annually from 2010  onwards to promote basic education around the world. This is an annual increase of €40 million. Here we are making a  concrete contribution to help achieve the education for all goals by 2015. We hope other countries will follow suit. We will  also promote post-primary education because we need to offer young people other education opportunities above and  beyond basic education. Vocational training is key here. That is why Germany attaches such importance to UNESCO’s  technical and vocational education and training (TVET) strategy.
30.6 Together with UNESCO and the German National Commission for UNESCO, the German Government has  launched a partnership programme to strengthen the UNESCO National Commissions in Africa. The fact that more than
40 African countries are taking part proves that we have developed a successful model together. We want to build on this  success together.
30.7 Let me say a few words about the budget. I support the Director-General’s proposal for biennium budget for
2010-2011. The important point is that it serves to strengthen programme financing and reduce administrative costs. We  want to continue along this path. I also want to see regular and extrabudgetary funds being dealt with transparently and  efficiently. That is why Germany supports a coherent cost-recovery strategy.
30.8 To close, let me draw your attention to an important turning point on the horizon for UNESCO. After two terms,  Director-General Koïchiro Matsuura’s mandate is coming to an end. I reiterate the sentiments of the previous speakers,  but I would like to express my deep respect and sincere gratitude for what he has done. Mr Director-General, you  displayed courage, determination and perseverance to bring UNESCO onto the road to reform. I would also like to take  this opportunity to thank all the staff of the Secretariat who have supported UNESCO’s work with such dedication. From  a field of highly qualified candidates, the Executive Board has nominated Ambassador Bokova as successor to the  outgoing Director-General. I believe it is an excellent choice. Next week, the General Conference will take the final  decision. High expectations will be vested in the new Director-General: that she continue with dedication the reform  process launched by her predecessor, heading the Organization efficiently and transparently and giving it a positive  image and a clear profile to the outside world. Ambassador Bokova, Germany looks forward to working closely with you  in a spirit of mutual trust. Thank you.
31.1 Le Président:   Merci beaucoup M. le Ministre, pour votre très importante présentation.  (Le Président poursuit en espagnol)
(31.2) (translation from the Spanish) We will now hear from Her Excellency, Ms Mirna Sixtina Vallejos de Crespo, Deputy  Education Minister for Panama.
(32.1) Ms Vallejos de Crespo (Panama) (translation from the Spanish):   Mr President of the 35th session of the General Conference, Mr Chair of the Executive Board, ladies and gentlemen,  good afternoon. I am honoured to be here with you today to share this moment. Allow me to begin by commending UNESCO’s  Director-General, Mr Matsuura, for his efforts over the last ten years in working to take the Organization forward. We would  also like to welcome and congratulate Ms Irina Bokova, the candidate nominated by the Executive Board for the post of  Director-General.
(32.2) Panama is a small country with 3.4 million inhabitants and a territory of 77,000 square kilometres. Despite the world  financial crisis, Panama’s economy grew by 5.9% in 2009, allowing increased investment in education and health, which are  priority items in the national budget. Life expectancy in Panama is 76 years, extreme poverty has been reduced to 11%, and
97% of the population complete primary education. The average length of education in rural areas is 7 years and in urban  areas, 10.6 years. Over a third of all schools are equipped with a computer lab.
(32.3) Problems remain, however, with regard to upper secondary education coverage, particularly in indigenous  communities where only 46% of needs are met. A major concern is the issue of over-aged secondary school students who  make up 48% of the student population. Twelve percent of pupils at this level drop out. At 70% of schools, the teacher  instructs several different levels at once, as these establishments cater to small communities in remote, hard-to-reach areas.  Problems with the low quality of education at these schools can be attributed to the high-level of teacher absenteeism and lack  of qualified teachers. We belong to a new Government that is making enormous efforts to close the quality gap between  different schools. To this end, free books and school supplies are being provided to all pupils enrolled in basic general  education, and the distribution of shoes, uniforms and scholarships to all primary education pupils is planned. Education has  been broadened in schools, as have food programmes, to cover children aged two and up. Vegetable gardens will soon be  added to all schools.
(32.4) Support exists for programmes that take into account cultural, ethnic, religious and gender differences, as well as  those related to a mental or physical disability. Students and teachers are participating in two major projects – the Biodiversity  Museum’s “Source of Life” national project, and the “Guardians of the Channel” project, designed to increase Panama’s role in  biodiversity management. We wish to thank UNESCO for its support of the Cleaner Production Programme and the Medicinal  Plants for Rural Communities programme.
(32.5) We call upon UNESCO to step up cooperation in protecting national historic heritage and cultural heritage and in  supporting violent behaviour prevention programmes. Studies are needed in which several countries participate and results  can be shared and used in a way that optimizes UNESCO’s resources. We ask Member States to share their successful
137  experiences so that they may be examined and, where possible, adapted to each country. UNESCO needs to support projects  which encourage parents to participate more fully in their children’s education through specific programmes, integrating  different economic sectors into those activities as a social debt and a commitment by all. Economic growth has also introduced  models of violence to Panamanian culture, far from our culture of peace and dialogue. We will not allow this and will fight it  with the help of a youth programme based on strong ethical and moral values and respect for the rights of others, and by  investing our best efforts in education. We would like to thank UNESCO and the Member States in advance for any support  they can lend. In conclusion, we ask UNESCO to ensure greater equity in the support it provides by offering it to countries  where extreme social risks prevail. We urge the other nations to provide the resources necessary to achieve a more fair and  equal society. God bless you all. Thank you.
33. The President:  Muchísimas gracias señora. His Excellency Mr Anton Thalmann, Deputy Secretary of State of Switzerland is the  next speaker. You have the floor Sir.
34.1 M. Thalmann (Suisse) :  Monsieur le Président, Excellences, Mesdames et Messieurs. Notre monde globalisé a été ébranlé par la crise  financière et économique. Dans ce monde fragilisé, le système des Nations Unies, notre outil commun, s’est avéré  indispensable. Mais il faut encore le solidifier. La Suisse croit au dialogue dans la confiance mutuelle. Elle se mobilisera  pour éviter tout « choc des civilisations » et pour éviter tout affaiblissement des droits humains. Elle poursuivra son  engagement en faveur de la paix et son soutien au développement.
34.2 Le mandat de l’UNESCO est vaste. Sur le terrain, l’éducation, les sciences et la culture sont les premières à  souffrir de la crise actuelle, comme en témoignent les coupures dans les budgets. Il est à craindre que cette crise  compromette les progrès réalisés dans ces domaines au cours des dernières années, et ce, au détriment d’abord des  plus démunis. Je lancerai ici un appel, pour dire combien il est urgent que l’UNESCO adapte l’utilisation de ses  ressources – celles de son Secteur des sciences sociales et humaines en priorité – pour contribuer à la nécessaire  analyse des répercussions sociales de la crise au niveau global. Notre Organisation devrait pouvoir être en mesure de  participer à l’information et à la mobilisation de la communauté internationale à cet égard.
34.3 Aussi, parce qu’elle est, en quelque sorte, un « dernier rempart », l’UNESCO doit préserver ses moyens. Elle  doit les préserver pour remplir ses fonctions de laboratoire d’idées et d’organisme normatif dans le cadre du dialogue  politique, des fonctions que ce contexte fragilisé rend plus essentielles que jamais. Elle doit préserver ses moyens pour  affermir son travail de mobilisation et de conseil au niveau local, en accord avec la démarche « Unis dans l’action ».  C’est pourquoi, Monsieur le Directeur général, la Suisse appuie le budget que vous proposez. J’aimerais rappeler que le  fonctionnement de base d’une organisation telle que l’UNESCO est une responsabilité que toutes les parties doivent  assumer ensemble. Si les priorités restent de voir les programmes mieux dotés, faire des économies et améliorer  l’efficience administrative à leur profit avec une croissance nominale zéro présente un sérieux risque d’affaiblissement.  Je mentionnerai, à cet égard, le Bureau international d’éducation à Genève, centre d’excellence en matière de curricula.  Les moyens dont il dispose ne répondent pas à nos ambitions en matière d'éducation de qualité pour tous. La Suisse  espère qu’au cours du prochain exercice biennal une réflexion plus poussée sur les entités décentralisées de l’UNESCO  conduira au renforcement de celles qui répondent à la mission globale de l’Organisation.
34.4 Mesdames, Messieurs, nous devons lutter contre les inégalités qui disloquent nos sociétés et amènent nos  cultures à s'opposer. L'éducation au développement durable est un atout dont nous devons user pleinement. À travers  l’UNESCO, tous nos États doivent agir ensemble pour redéfinir la qualité de l’éducation, et donc sa finalité, qui doit être  de développer en chaque individu, jeune ou adulte, une volonté de justice sociale, le respect des ressources naturelles  et le sens de la responsabilité économique. Simultanément, la concrétisation d’un développement durable, c’est aussi  permettre aux pays du Sud, notamment en Afrique, de dépasser leur statut de pourvoyeur de matières premières ou de  main-d'œuvre à bon marché. Nous devons y appuyer la mise en place de politiques de la formation, de la science et de  la recherche génératrices de savoirs, d’innovation, de plus-value.
34.5 Avant de conclure, j’aimerais souligner l'importance de l'action normative de l’UNESCO, dont les Conventions  sont moins des réglementations que des expressions de solidarité et d’ouverture entre les États membres. C’est la vision  que nous en avons, celle d’un dialogue positif. Et c'est précisément parce que nous voulons que ces conventions restent  des instruments de coopération internationale que nous estimons essentiel de résister aux tentations de la politisation.  C’est en ce sens que la Suisse s’engagera au sein du Comité du patrimoine mondial, si elle devait y être élue.
34.6 Mesdames, Messieurs, le respect des libertés fondamentales permet de garantir la dignité de chaque être  humain. Nous ne doutons pas que Mme Irina Bokova saura s’en faire le défenseur, d’autant qu’elle bénéficiera de la  nouvelle UNESCO réformée par M. Koïchiro Matsuura, que nous remercions pour le travail accompli au cours des dix  dernières années. Mme Bokova pourra compter sur le concours de la Suisse.
34.7 Vous aurez, Monsieur le Président, la tâche d’accompagner Mme Bokova dans les deux années à venir. Votre  engagement est connu, et il est reconnu. Nous sommes sereins quant à la qualité avec laquelle vous accomplirez votre  mandat comme représentant de tous nos pays, à l’instar de votre éminent prédécesseur, M. l’Ambassadeur Georges  Anastassopoulos, à qui nous rendons hommage. Je vous remercie de votre attention.
35. The President:   Merci beaucoup, Monsieur le Ministre, pour votre présentation. The Chairperson of the National Commission of  Ukraine for UNESCO, His Excellency Mr Volodymyr Ohryzko, is the next speaker. I now give him the floor.
36.1 Mr Ohryzko (Ukraine):   Mr President, distinguished colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, the world today is going through a point of  transcendent change. States, governments and world leaders face new challenges that affect everyone everywhere,
138  regardless of the level of economic development. In times of crisis we witness seriously negative trends: poverty and  inequality deepening; ecological disasters worsening; depletion of resources becoming more observable. These are  complex and interconnected problems, and it is ambitious of UNESCO to set out to resolve them. Formulating effective  global strategies in response to the changing world is a task that requires new approaches. In this context, let me  congratulate Director-General Matsuura on his efforts in reforming this Organization, especially within “One United  Nations” system. We agree with this approach. It is realistic and effective. Reforms should be carried out regularly,  considering every step and keeping in mind a clear perspective. A goal without a plan is just a wish, but we have both a  goal and a plan. I am convinced that the new Director-General of UNESCO – and I look forward to the candidature of  Ambassador Irina Bokova being approved by the General Conference next week – will successfully cope with these  tasks. On our side, we are ready to lend a hand in all her efforts.
36.2 We welcome the proposed Draft Programme and Budget for the next two years. The budget with zero real  growth we find balanced and equitable.
36.3 Dear colleagues, the educational landscape has significantly changed in the past decade. The image of  education of the future is still to be shaped. A discussion of this kind has also taken place in the Ukraine, for the second  time, at the UNESCO category 2 ARTEK centre. This internationally renowned youth centre has all the facilities to deliver  UNESCO priority programmes, be it in education or other important areas, and it has become a good tradition of many  years to host such events as ARTEK dialogues or the Let’s Change the World for the Best festival. This upholds the  visibility of the Organization among youth.
36.4 Ladies and gentlemen, 2010 has been proclaimed by the United Nations General Assembly as the International  Year of Biodiversity. This makes the task of UNESCO and its Programme on Man and the Biosphere more and more  important. Within this programme, together with Poland and Belarus, Ukraine is working on the creation of the West  Polesie Transboundary Biosphere Reserve. Also, in these times of global climate change, we hope that the  Intergovernmental Oceanographic Commission will formulate its mid- and long-term policy more clearly.
36.5 Distinguished delegates, Ukraine was a co-sponsor of the UNESCO resolution proclaiming 2010 as the  International Year of the Rapprochement of Cultures. I hope that many countries will take interest in the joint initiative of  Ukraine and the World Heritage Centre to initiate dialogue and encourage the role of religious communities in preserving  the cultural heritage. Next year, we plan to host in Kiev a related international thematic seminar. Your participation is, as  always, welcome.
36.6 This year we are commemorating the twentieth anniversary of the fall of the Berlin wall. The significance of this  event can hardly be overestimated. Still, there is much to be done to make the world more democratic and just, and  UNESCO has to play its role in accomplishing this humanist mission. Learning the lessons of the past to prevent future  mistakes is a part of the mission. Step by step, our country is reassessing the pages of its own history. Let me remind  you that the 34th session of the General Conference adopted the resolution “Remembrance of the victims of the Great  Famine (Holodomor) in Ukraine”. I would like to thank those countries that have already begun to include information on  this tragic event of the twentieth century in their educational programs. Let me express our gratitude to the Director- General, Mr Matsuura, for his support and patronage of the international scientific conference on Holodomor which was  held last September in Kiev. Considering UNESCO’s humanistic mission, we hope for further constructive cooperation in  the implementation of this resolution by the new Director-General. Finally, Mr President, with Mr Matsuura’s double  mandate coming to an end, I would like to express the gratitude of my country for his effective activities and devotion to  the ideals of our Organization. We wish him every success in his future endeavours. Thank you for your attention.
37. The President:   Thank you, Sir, for your remarks. Now I am pleased to give the floor to His Excellency Mr George  Anastassopoulos, Ambassador of Greece to UNESCO.
38.1 Mr Anastassopoulos (Greece):   Mr President, dear colleagues, I will start in Greek: “Αιέν αριστεύειν και υπείροχον έμμεναι άλλων”, “Always to be  the best and to be distinguished above the rest”, said Homer in the Iliad. Thirty centuries have passed since then, but the  Homeric dictum has lost none of its significance. As Greeks, we still – and strongly – believe that the search for  excellence should be the most important trait characterizing UNESCO, in all its activities, all its programmes, in all the  persons who serve the middle-aged Organization. The goal of excellence should, indeed, guide us in the new period we  are now entering, after Koïchiro Matsuura’s decade. Our Japanese Director-General tried hard during this difficult period,  and brought UNESCO notable administrative and financial order. But he may have embarked a bit late on the reforms  that had been so badly required, and has not had the time to conclude them. Still, even at his last, this 35th session of  the General Conference, he has presented us with significant proposals to change its structure and, allow the  governmental and ministerial messages to play a bigger role in shaping UNESCO’s future. The recommendations of a  working group of 40 ambassadors, under your present speaker’s leadership, has prepared the ground; and we earnestly  hope that they will bring the first remarkable results. Greece more than backs this radical effort. It does not participate in  a politics of cynicism but espouses a politics of change in every possible direction. More than ever, we believe, the world  needs a strong and vibrant UNESCO that defends and promotes the highest ethical values.
38.2 In the past, UNESCO has launched the first international programme conducting scientific studies on the  environment, 23 years before the Stockholm conference. It has forged the ground-breaking concepts of “world heritage”  and the “common heritage of humanity”. It was around UNESCO that the concept of “lifelong education for all” emerged,  with the Edgar Faure report in 1972. It is UNESCO that has played the pioneering role in bioethics and published the first  UNESCO World Report, Towards Knowledge Societies. However strong, these elements may not suffice for the title of  “the ethical and moral conscience of humanity”, as UNESCO has often been called. The Organization cannot merely be
139  the curator of the fine values of yesteryear. UNESCO’s ethical conscience must be forward-looking and must represent  “ethics in action”, the ethics of today and those of tomorrow.
38.3 We must also care about the serious matter of funding. Member States may crowd UNESCO with new demands,  new mandates, new meetings, new conventions and new centres, but unfortunately they are not providing it with the  resources commensurate with these ambitions. UNESCO is suffering from chronic under-funding, and needs more  funding if it is to remain the first port of call in its fields of competence. Let us be absolutely clear: disinvestment in the  United Nations is a disinvestment in multilateralism, and it weakens the instruments necessary to respond to the global  challenges which confront us today. Increasing the core funding of UNESCO, even at a time of crisis like this, must  therefore become a very high priority for the new administration. We must stop the descent into the no-growth paradigm  that disembowels us all. Having just formulated some of the basic demands for our Director-General designate, I have  become conscious that we may be running the risk of associating Irina Bokova with overly high expectations, because  we would also add reforms and innovations, the need for UNESCO to impose its presence when asked to lead alliances  with other, much more wealthy, organizations on education, as it happens, or the problem of ensuring respect for the  conventions it is shaping, and so on. I believe that we must be fair to Irina Bokova. She fought a long and ultimately  successful battle to succeed Koïchiro Matsuura, and she has thus become the first ever woman to secure at UNESCO  such an important job. We salute and congratulate her on this achievement. But we have to make urgently clear that we  cannot expect everything to come from her strong will and her good appetite for work. We also have to stand next to her,  to help her and substantially contribute, in order to make this new period more refreshing and more fruitful.  (The speaker continues in French)
38.4 Mesdames et Messieurs, fidèle à son Acte constitutif, l’UNESCO est activement engagée depuis de longues  années dans la promotion d’un dialogue interculturel durable au niveau international. Comme M. Barbosa l’a récemment  souligné à l’ouverture de la Conférence internationale « Rencontres interculturelles dans l’Orient hellénisé », nous  considérons en effet un tel dialogue nécessaire pour promouvoir la cohésion sociale, la réconciliation et la paix. Il semble  que toutes les initiatives de l’UNESCO aient poursuivi un même objectif : favoriser une lecture de l’histoire qui soit  ouverte, diversifiée, pluraliste, mettant l’accent sur les échanges et les transferts culturels.
38.5 Le Directeur général adjoint de l’UNESCO a été heureux de constater que la Conférence au cours de laquelle il  s’est exprimé propose une lecture interculturelle de l’Orient hellénisé autour de la figure d’Alexandre le Grand. À travers  l’hellénisation de l’Orient, portée par les guerres de conquête d’Alexandre le Grand, se sont en effet développés des  syncrétismes religieux et artistiques très féconds, incarnés notamment dans l’art gréco-bouddhique.
38.6 Cette Conférence ne s’inscrit-elle pas pleinement dans le cadre des préparatifs de la célébration, en 2010, de  l’Année internationale du rapprochement des cultures ? L’UNESCO n’est-elle pas le gardien du Temple de l’intégrité  intellectuelle et politique de l’histoire ? Nous souhaitons qu’elle le reste et que son rôle soit toujours assuré ! Je vous  remercie beaucoup.
39. The President:    Merci beaucoup, Monsieur l’Ambassadeur, pour votre présentation. The last speaker on my list is His Excellency  Mr Tómas Ingi Olrich, Ambassador and Permanent Delegate of Iceland. I give him the floor.
40.1 Mr Olrich (Iceland):   Mr President of the General Conference, Mr Chair of the Executive Board, excellencies, ladies and gentlemen, I  bring you the greetings of the Icelandic Minister of Education, Science and Culture, Katrín Jakobsdóttir. She would  certainly have wanted to be with you here today, but urgent political matters have prevented it. She has asked me to  deliver her contribution, and I feel honoured to do so. It is a great pleasure for me to attend, for the first time, the General  Conference of UNESCO, and to address the eminent representatives of the Member States of this Organization. On  behalf of the Icelandic delegation, I would like to express our congratulations to you, Mr President, on your election. At  the outset, I would also like to mention that we look forward to welcoming our friends and neighbours, the Faroe Islands,  into the UNESCO family, as an Associate Member.
40.2 During the past year, the world has been hit by a severe crisis due to the collapse in the financial sector. The  financial upheaval hit Iceland more severely than most other countries in the world, causing the most severe economic  setback Iceland has faced in living memory. The crisis has, in many ways, underlined the importance of the values and  virtues of UNESCO and the need for international bodies such as UNESCO, with its professional authority and its moral  engagement, to tackle the issues at stake. We must all care for the values that make us human, and take care to support  international organizations like UNESCO in its attempts to safeguard these values internationally. I am convinced that  education, research and development, and innovation are the milestones that mark our path not only out of the current  crisis Iceland is faced with, but also for the whole of humankind. However, in our rush to make the future brighter, we  must not forget to foster gender equality and freedom of speech, and to support the cultural side of our society. I would  like to use this opportunity to recall that gender equality lies at the core of UNESCO’s programmes. The pursuit of gender  equality is central to sustainable development, where each member of society respects others and plays a role in which  they can fulfil their potential. The broader goal of gender equality is a societal one to which all other social institutions  must contribute.
40.3 Education encompasses the means and motives for human welfare in the world. Education is a fundamental  human right, and nobody should be deprived of this right. The international community has entrusted UNESCO with the  global coordinating and leadership role in education for all (EFA), and we appreciate above all the interaction between  the programmes for EFA and education for sustainable development (ESD) within UNESCO. Another pivotal role of  UNESCO is the promotion of linguistic diversity and multilingualism in education and the safeguarding of the linguistic
140  heritage. The strengthening of children’s mother tongue at school, as well as fostering the learning of several languages  from the earliest age, should be the leading thread in education.
40.4 Water is essential for life, for the environment and for the economic well-being of nations. Water serves a  fundamental role in any policy on sustainable development. UNESCO’s International Hydrological Programme (IHP) is  the only intergovernmental scientific and educational programme dedicated to fresh water in the United Nations system.  Therefore, it should remain a top priority at UNESCO. Iceland has considerable renewable energy sources, including  hydropower and geothermal energy. We strongly believe that research and capacity-building in science and technology  for sustainable development and research for future energy sources contribute to the sound management of natural  resources. Here, UNESCO has an important role to play through climate change-education work.
40.5 Ladies and gentlemen, UNESCO has an important role to play in dealing with the many challenging problems  that now face our world. Iceland will continue to support UNESCO in its endeavours. On behalf of the Government of  Iceland I would like to express our gratitude to Mr Matsuura for his leadership of UNESCO. We wish him all the best for  the future. We wholeheartedly welcome the nomination of Ambassador Bokova for the post of Director-General and wish  her well in particular as the first woman to assume that great responsibility. Thank you.
41. The President:   Thank you very much, Ambassador, for your remarks. Ladies and gentlemen, before we proceed, I would like to  take this opportunity to express my appreciation to the Vice-President from Hungary for filling this seat in my absence.   First report by the Chairperson of the Credentials Committee  Premier rapport du Président du Comité de vérification des pouvoirs  Primer informe del Presidente del Comité de Verificación de Poderes  Первый доклад Председателя Комитета по проверке полномочий  א א  א 全权证书委员会主席的第一次报告
42. The President:  Ladies and gentlemen, we shall now examine the first report by the Chairperson of the Credentials Committee,  and I am pleased at this time to give you the floor, Sir.
43.1 M. Famba (République démocratique du Congo) (Président du Comité de vérification des pouvoirs – CRE) :  Merci beaucoup, Monsieur le Président, pour la parole que vous nous donnez. Depuis la lecture du premier  rapport du Comité de vérification des pouvoirs en séance plénière, le 6 octobre 2009, le Comité a reçu les pouvoirs en  bonne et due forme des délégations des États membres dont les noms s’affichent à l’écran (tous les noms des États  membres affichés à l’écran sont indiqués dans le document publié sous la cote 35 C/64). Le Comité a également reçu  les pouvoirs provisoires des délégations des pays dont les noms s’affichent aussi à l’écran. Le Comité a également reçu  les pouvoirs en bonne et due forme des délégations des pays dont la liste s’affiche à l’écran, qui avaient auparavant  présenté des pouvoirs provisoires. Conformément à l’autorisation qui m’a été donnée par le Comité de vérification des  pouvoirs, je propose que la Conférence générale accepte ces pouvoirs.
43.2 Les délégations des États membres dont la liste s’affiche à l’écran n’ont pas encore présenté de pouvoirs. Les  délégations des Membres associés dont la liste s’affiche à l’écran n’ont pas encore présenté de pouvoirs. La délégation  d’observateur dont le nom s’affiche à l’écran n’a pas encore présenté de pouvoirs. Voilà, Monsieur le Président, le  premier rapport que le Comité de vérification des pouvoirs peut vous présenter aujourd’hui. Nous vous remercions pour  votre attention.
44.1 The President:   Merci beaucoup, Monsieur le Président, pour votre rapport, and I would like to extend to you my congratulations  on your efficient work.
44.2 Ladies and gentlemen, are there any comments on this report? I see none. Thank you very much. May I  consider, then, that the General Conference wishes to note of the first report of the Chairperson of the Credentials  Committee? It is so decided. Thank you very much. We have no other business to take care of at this time, so this  meeting is adjourned. Thank you very much.  The meeting rose at 5.35 p.m.  La séance est levée à 17 h 35  Se levanta la sesión a las 17.35  Заседание закрывается в 17.35  א א٥,٣٥א   会议于 17 时 35 分结束