1. The President:   Good afternoon, dear colleagues, and thank you very much to those of you who came on time for our meeting. I  really appreciate it because we have a bit of work to do and it cannot be done without your presence. I must take this  opportunity to thank you all for your very kind support this morning for the plenary session we held as a tribute to the  Director-General. I am sure that he appreciated it and it was good that you all had a chance to see what has taken place  in his life and the work he has done. So thank you once again.  Report of the ED Commission (Education) (35 C/71)  Rapport de la Commission ED (Éducation) (35 C/71)  Informe de la Comisión ED (Educación) (35 C/71)  Доклад Комиссии ED (Образование) (35 С/71)   )٣٥/٧١()ED(א 教育委员会（ED）的报告（35 C/71）
2. The President:   Now, ladies and gentlemen, we will examine the report of the ED Commission (Education). The relevant  document that you have before you is document 35 C/71. I would now like to invite the Chairperson of the ED  Commission, Mr Duncan Hindle, to take the floor.
3.1 Mr Hindle (South Africa) (Chairperson of the ED Commission – Education):   Thank you very much, Mr President. I was saying, after the excitement of this morning, that it would be a little  difficult to recreate anything like that this afternoon, but we will certainly try. Mr President of the General Conference,  Mr Chair of the Executive Board, honourable ministers and heads of delegations, distinguished delegates, I am pleased  to report to this plenary meeting that the Education Commission of the 35th session of the General Conference  completed its work and adopted its report on 19 October, reaching consensus on all recommendations. I therefore have  the honour and privilege to submit to you the main conclusions of our three days of fruitful discussions.
3.2 As an introduction to our debates, the Assistant Director-General for Education presented the highlights of the  ministerial round table on the theme “What education for the future? Lessons from the major international education  conferences”, which was held on 9 and 10 October. He recalled a number of important recommendations for UNESCO  that emerged from this round table.
3.3 Ladies and gentlemen, now let me turn to our substantive debates. Our work was divided into five debates, the  first of which was devoted to the consideration and adoption of the Draft Programme and Budget for 2010-2011
(35 C/5  Rev.). The item was introduced by the Assistant Director-General for Strategic Planning. He reminded us of the  seamless transition between the Medium-Term Strategy set for the Organization for the period 2008-2013 (34 C/4) and  the strategies presented in document 35 C/5. He also underlined the continued emphasis given to the two global  priorities of Africa and gender equality. He was followed by the Assistant Director-General for Education, who outlined  the key features of Major Programme I in draft document 35 C/5. Fellow delegates, ladies and gentlemen, the general  debate on the C/5 document was both extensive and rich. Forty-one Member States, one Observer and one non- governmental organization took the floor to share their views on the Programme and Budget for the forthcoming  biennium, and their unwavering commitment to education for all (EFA) as the top priority for the Organization. Allow me  to try to summarize the main themes of this debate. Firstly, let me say that many delegates expressed appreciation for  the efforts made to increase the programmatic focus of the education programme, and supported the priority areas  identified for Major Programme I. They certainly welcomed the increased budgetary support to education and  appreciated the more reader-friendly C/5 document. Secondly, on the education front, it was agreed that it was indeed  unacceptable that so many adults across the world remained illiterate. The Commission therefore called on UNESCO to  continue to support literacy for empowerment and to further mobilize the international community through the United  Nations Literacy Decade (2003-2012). In regard to schooling, the assumptions used to arrive at the estimated teacher  gap of some 10.5 million primary school teachers were challenged, but there were no questions, Mr President, about the  need to scale up teacher education and teacher training as a means of improving the quality of education. In this regard,  support was voiced for the Teacher Training Initiative in Sub-Saharan Africa (TTISSA) and for Priority Africa. Likewise,  many delegates expressed the urgent need to improve national technical and vocational education and training (TVET)  policies and programmes to better meet changing labour demands, and to mitigate high youth unemployment rates and  poverty. Some delegates underlined the importance of moving UNESCO’s actions upstream and of providing technical  assistance and capacity development to allow countries to better plan and manage their education systems. It was  agreed that triangular North-South-South cooperation should remain a key implementation modality. In the debates, it  was noted that education was an opportunity to respond positively to the current financial crisis, and that UNESCO  needed to scale up its efforts to improve the global coordination of EFA partners and to strengthen linkages between  EFA and education for sustainable development (ESD). Indeed, ESD was qualified as one of the major educational  challenges of our times. The Associated Schools Project Network (ASPnet) was highly appreciated and described as an  important means of piloting ESD programmes. The Commission also agreed that gender equality should continue to be a  high priority for the programme and that inclusive education policies should reach out to all marginalized groups, with the  continued key objective of making education for all a reality for all.
3.4 Distinguished delegates, 15 draft resolutions submitted by Member States on various aspects of the C/5  document were examined by the Commission. For the sake of brevity, I shall not enter into the details of the subsequent  debates, the outcomes of which can be found in the written report of the ED Commission. I would nevertheless like to  highlight some of our discussions, and to make particular reference to two proposed draft resolutions that led to more
307  discussions. The first of these was the draft resolution proposed by France on Holocaust remembrance. Some 16  countries took the floor on this draft resolution. Some felt it important to make a reference to the specificity of Holocaust  remembrance, and to UNESCO’s ongoing work as a previous General Conference resolution. Others emphasized that  UNESCO should more broadly promote education for tolerance to combat all forms of discrimination, without making  specific reference to the Holocaust. A working group was set up and I am glad to say that it successfully identified a  consensus proposal whereby no specific reference to Holocaust remembrance would be made in the resolution, while  Part II of document 35 C/5 recognizes UNESCO’s ongoing work in this area through extrabudgetary funds. The  representative of the Islamic Republic of Iran voiced his country’s reservation on the proposed amendment to this draft  resolution. However, in view of the fact that the amendment would make the inclusion of Holocaust remembrance into  national curricula voluntary, and not compulsory, I am pleased to report that he agreed to allow for adoption of the  amended resolution by consensus. The second draft resolution that led to some discussion related to the proposed  budgetary allocation for the UNESCO International Institute for Higher Education in Latin America and the Caribbean  (IESALC). Some Member States of the Latin American and Caribbean region expressed the view that the Institute’s  budget should be maintained at the same level as in document 34 C/5, and regretted that the concerned Institute had not  been more thoroughly consulted during the planning process. A budgetary amendment to document 35 C/5 Rev. by the  General Conference would, however, have required the Commission to identify from where the corresponding funds  could be taken. In view of this, the Commission reached consensus by proposing amendments to the resolution that  asked the Director-General to mobilize extrabudgetary funding to support the Institute, to strive to restore in document
36  C/5 the financial allocation for IESALC to the same level as in document 34 C/5, and to ensure that future budgetary  allocations took into account the Institute’s achievements. When adopting the report of the Commission, the  representative of the Bolivarian Republic of Venezuela submitted her country’s reservations concerning the Institute’s  budgetary reduction, stressing the lack of proper consultations and the fact that it was inconsistent with the performance  of the Institute and the economic crisis. She also expressed her country’s reservations with regard to the reference to the  Literacy Initiative for Empowerment (LIFE) in document 35 C/5 Rev., as they considered methods such as Yo sí Puedo  to be very successful. Mr President, following the examination of all the draft resolutions and the adoption of the  recommendations of the Executive Board, with the exception of those in document 35 C/6 Add., which became obsolete  given the adoption of a new resolution concerning IESALC, the Commission then examined and adopted the budgetary  provisions of document 35 C/5 Rev. relating to Major Programme I. I can report that at the time a sense of relief, and a  round of applause, followed, marking the conclusion of a process which had started two years ago for the preparation of  this document. Ladies and gentlemen, I want to record that, as part of the first debate, the Commission received and  appreciated the reports on the activities presented by the various chairpersons of the governing boards of each of  UNESCO’s six category 1 education institutes. Throughout our deliberations, the work of those institutes, their  contribution to achieving the EFA goals as important technical implementation arms of Major Programme I, and the need  to identify more sustainable financial solutions to support these institutes, were acknowledged by many delegates. In  addition, the ED Commission also appreciated the report provided on the Intergovernmental Regional Committee for the  Regional Education Project for Latin America and the Caribbean (PRELAC).
3.5 Fellow delegates, I would like now to turn to our second debate, which concerned the four items that were  considered for adoption without debate. The first of these items related to “Amendments to the Statutes of the  Intergovernmental Regional Committee for the Regional Education Project for Latin America and the Caribbean  (PRELAC)”. The Assistant Director-General for Education recalled that the PRELAC Statutes had been provisionally  approved by the 180th session of the Executive Board and these, indeed, were endorsed by the Commission. It was,  however, noted that the Spanish version of the Statutes should be identical to that submitted to the 180th session of the  Executive Board. The second item related to the “Revision of the 1981 Regional Convention on the Recognition of  Studies, Certificates, Diplomas, Degrees and other Academic Qualifications in Higher Education in the African States  and the 1983 Regional Convention on the Recognition of Studies, Diplomas and Degrees in Higher Education in Asia  and the Pacific”. The resolution invited the Director-General to convene two intergovernmental conferences in the period
2010-2011 in order to adopt the revised texts of the regional conventions, and this was supported. The third item  concerned “Debt swap for education”. The resolution recommended that the Director-General establish an advisory  panel of experts on debt swaps and innovative approaches to education financing, and that a Special Account should be  created to receive extrabudgetary resources. This resolution was approved, although the representative from El Salvador  expressed regrets that the document had only been made available very recently. The last item under the second debate  related to the “Implementation of 34 C/Resolution 58 concerning educational and cultural institutions in the occupied  Arab territories”. It was also adopted without debate. The representative from the occupied Palestinian territories thanked  the Member States and the Secretariat for all the support provided to their educational institutions. The representative of  Israel expressed reservations over paragraph 14 of the resolution, which dealt with the situation of education in the  Golan Heights, emphasizing that all residents of the Golan can acquire Israeli citizenship and, hence, enjoy full rights to  education. I must therefore record that paragraph 14 of the resolution was not approved by Israel.
3.6 Distinguished delegates, let me now turn to our third debate, where 27 Member States and one non- governmental organization took the floor to address three items. First was the “Draft strategy for the second half of the  United Nations Decade of Education for Sustainable Development (2005-2014)”. The item was introduced by the  Assistant Director-General for Education, who recalled that the strategy sets out key areas of strategic action through  which UNESCO would put knowledge into action and promote the further integration of education for sustainable  development into all types and settings of education. In the debate that followed, the ED Commission expressed strong  support for education for sustainable development as a strategy to mitigate a number of global challenges, including  climate change and the global financial crisis, as well as the issues of social inclusion, conflict resolution and human  rights. The Commission urged UNESCO to strengthen its global leadership for the implementation of the Decade and  expressed its appreciation of the successful outcomes of the Bonn World Conference on ESD in 2009. The proposed
308  draft resolution, which highlighted the urgent need to operationalize education for sustainable development, was adopted  by consensus with only minor modifications. The second item discussed concerned the “Strategy to make the UNESCO  International Bureau of Education (IBE) UNESCO’s centre of excellence for curricula”. Many delegates expressed their  appreciation of IBE’s work and supported the proposal to make it a centre of excellence for curricula. Some raised the  need for IBE to give more focused attention to curriculum development. While some delegates would have liked to see  the strategy already submitted to the current session of the General Conference, they extended their support to the  working group that will now be established to prepare the strategy, which I can assure you will be open to all interested  Member States, and noted that they looked forward to being consulted on the final version of the strategy. The last item  under this debate was on the “World Conference on Early Childhood Care and Education”, which will be held in Moscow  in September 2010 thanks to the generous support of the City of Moscow. The item was introduced by the representative  of the Russian Federation, and the Assistant Director-General for Education expressed his appreciation for the resolution,  recalling the importance of giving increased attention to early childhood care and education. The Commission certainly  welcomed the forthcoming conference.
3.7 Mr President, let me now turn to our fourth debate, which covered three items proposing the establishment of  UNESCO category 1 and 2 education institutes and centres. The first item related to the establishment as a category 1  institute in India of the Mahatma Gandhi Institute of Education for Peace and Sustainable Development. When  introducing the item, the Assistant Director-General for Education recalled that the proposal had been submitted to the
182nd session of the Executive Board, which recommended that the 35th session of the General Conference approve  the establishment of the institute. The delegate from India explained that her country would finance all the costs of the  institute, with the exception of the post of director, and that it would be the first category I education institute in Asia.  Representatives of 15 Member States took the floor to support wholeheartedly the establishment of this institute,  indicating worldwide interest in promoting education for peace and sustainable development through it, and certainly  looking forward to benefiting from its work. The second item discussed under this debate dealt with the proposals for the  establishment of two category 2 centres, one in the Philippines, which would deal with lifelong learning for sustainable  development in South-East Asia, and the other in the Syrian Arab Republic, which would be a regional centre working on  early childhood development. Representatives of five Member States took the floor to voice their support for the  establishment of these important centres, and expressed satisfaction that the centres were located in Southern countries.  Throughout the debates, delegates also called for a reference to category 2 centres in the final version of document
35  C/5. They underlined the importance of continuing current efforts to make linkages between these centres, category
1 education institutes and the rest of Major Programme I.
3.8 Ladies and gentlemen, I now turn to our fifth and last debate, which concerned item 5.25 “Impacts on the  education system and freedom of expression as a consequence of the situation in Honduras”. This, Mr Chairman, was  certainly one of the most delicate and difficult items discussed by our Commission. I am pleased to report that a working  group was established by the President of the General Conference to amend the draft resolution on this item. I can report  that thanks to the constructive approach of all parties involved, and the spirit of compromise displayed, this group was  able to propose to the Commission a text which was then acceptable to all. The text underlined the possible negative  impacts on the functions of an education system resulting from a breakdown of democracy, and requested the Director- General to follow developments within the fields of competence of UNESCO in the interest of the right to education and  freedom of expression. I must express my appreciation to the President of the General Conference for his leadership, as  well as to the representative of South Africa, who facilitated the discussions, and, as I said, for the sensitive approach of  all parties in achieving this consensus.
3.9 Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, distinguished delegates, at the last meeting of the Commission, some  delegates suggested useful recommendations and lessons learned which could be valuable for the preparation of the  Education Commission at the next General Conference. The Secretariat assures me that due note has been taken of all  of the suggestions. In conclusion, therefore, allow me to thank first the Vice-Chairs of the Education Commission for their  support to the Chair, as well as the representative of the Director General, Mr Nick Burnett, and the Secretary of the  Commission, Mr Svein Osttveit, and his team for their extraordinary support to myself and to the Commission. Without  them, I can assure you, Mr President, we would not have achieved any of the above. Mr President, that concludes my  oral report. I thank you for your attention.
4.1 The President:   Thank you very much, Chairperson Hindle, for that very comprehensive report. I am sure that the success of it  was due to your skilful leadership, and in that regard I would like to thank you and all of the members of the Education  Commission for the support that they gave in order to help make this effective. Thank you very much.
4.2 Distinguished delegates, may I assume that the General Conference takes note of the report of the Education  Commission and approves the draft resolutions contained in it, subject to the decisions that the Conference may take on  budgetary issues when adopting the Appropriation Resolution for 2010-2011? I know there are some hands out there,  but do you want to speak before this adoption? I was going to request the floor for all persons who would like to speak  and then we will deal with that. Is it possible or do you need to speak right now? You have the floor.
5. Mr Souza-Gomes (Brazil):   Thank you, Mr President. We would like to make an intervention asking for the floor after the adoption,  Mr President. This is our request, Sir.
6.1 The President:   Thank you for your understanding. So may I assume, then, that the Members would now wish to adopt this  report as presented by Mr Hindle? I see no objections. It is so decided. Thank you.
6.2 Now I give the floor to all those persons who wish to speak. Mr Secretary, who is the first? I give the floor to the  representative of India.
7.1 Ms Mukherjee (India):   Thank you very much, Mr President. I would first of all like to express my appreciation to the Chairperson of the  Education Commission for his extraordinary chairmanship. I am taking the floor because of the historic adoption right  now of the category 1 institute in India. It was with a spirit of humility that, in the name of Mahatma Gandhi, India had  brought to the General Conference and the Executive Board its proposal for the establishment of the Mahatma Gandhi  Institute of Education for Peace and Sustainable Development as a category 1 institute of UNESCO. Mr Chairman, you  will be pleased to know that when this institute is established it will be the first category 1 institute in Asia and only the  third in a developing country. It is a matter of pride that this initiative brought in the name of the Mahatma, whose birthday  on 2 October is celebrated by the United Nations General Assembly as International Day of Non-Violence, has just been  adopted under your chairmanship, Mr President. This institute, in my government’s view, is owned by the entire  international community. It symbolizes the very spirit and Constitution of UNESCO, and the words of Gandhi, who said:  “There is enough in the world for everyone’s needs, but not enough for everyone’s greed”. Mr President, I would also like  to take this opportunity to thank the outgoing Director-General, Mr Matsuura, and his colleagues in the Secretariat,  Mr Burnett and Mr Parsuramen, who is sitting on the podium, for their partnership and support for this project when it was  being taken through the process in the Executive Board to the General Conference. Thank you very much for giving me  the floor.
8. The President:   Thank you very much for your statement. I now give the floor to the representative of Brazil.
9. Mr Souza-Gomes (Brazil):   Thank you, Mr President. I would first of all like to express our deepest gratitude to all the members of the  working group who worked hard in order to have, in a spirit of compromise, a consensus text for the resolution on item
5.25. Our recognition goes also to the Chairperson of the Education Commission and to the facilitator, the representative  of South Africa, Mr Jeppie, and to the distinguished Ambassador of India, Ms Baswati Mukherjee. Brazil wishes to  express gratitude to all Member States for agreeing to examine the impacts on the education system and freedom of  expression as a consequence of the situation in Honduras. The inclusion by consensus of item 5.25 in the agenda is  evidence of the importance of promoting collaboration among nations to further the values of democracy, and universal  respect for justice, for the rule of law and for human rights and fundamental freedoms, as stated in Article 1 of the  Constitution. The report that we have just adopted, as proposed by the Education Commission, testifies to the crucial role  that UNESCO plays in defence of human rights and shows to the world that we cannot be indifferent to breaches of the  rule of law and violations of the right to education and to freedom of expression perpetrated by the de facto regime  installed in Honduras following the coup d’état. Mr President, the de facto regime in Honduras has decided to suspend  classes, thereby denying students access to education. Students will be considered approved without completing the full  school schedule. The National University of Honduras is presently closed and might stay so for the foreseeable future.  This situation violates Article 13 of the International Covenant on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights, as well as  Article  1 of the 1960 Convention against Discrimination in Education. We deeply regret that threats subsist to the  exercise of the right to freedom of expression. We demand that all radio stations and television channels be allowed to  reopen and operate freely. It is for this reason that we have brought this situation to the attention of the General  Conference. The subject has been the object of a decision by the General Assembly, a statement by the President of the  Security Council and several manifestations by heads of state and government. These facts cannot be ignored by us.  The de facto regime has not been recognized by any government. Therefore, Brazil congratulates all Member States for  their commitment to our core values such as peace, freedom and freedom of expression and human rights. I thank you  very much, Mr President.
10. The President:   Thank you very much, Sir, for your statement. I now call on the representative of Argentina.
(11.1) Ms Wimpfheimer (Argentina) (translation from the Spanish):   Thank you very much, Mr President. Argentina would like to acknowledge the efforts made by the President of the  Conference to reach a consensus with regard to item 5.25. We particularly wish to thank the Chairperson of the Education  Commission for establishing the drafting group which attained its objectives by virtue of the excellent work accomplished by its  Facilitator, Mr Ghalaab Jeppia from South Africa. I would also like to extend our gratitude to the Ambassador of India, who  assisted the co-sponsors of this resolution in the drafting group, for her talent and able diplomacy; and, of course, we would  also like to thank our counterpart for having contributed to reaching a consensus on such a thorny issue.
(11.2) My country wishes to endorse the comments made by the Ambassador of Brazil on this item, and I would also like to  extend, on behalf of my country, our full support and gratitude to our Brazilian diplomatic colleagues who are currently on  mission in Honduras. Argentina is pleased that UNESCO shares the concern voiced by all multilateral and regional bodies  regarding Honduras, expressed through the various resolutions and declarations publicly available, and that it has rallied to the  efforts made by the international community to restore democracy to Honduras. Argentina has suffered at the hands a series  of military dictatorships, the last of which, in particular, has had irreversible repercussions on our society to this day. This is  why President Cristina Kirchner was at the forefront of the vehement condemnation of the coup in Honduras, and took  concrete action to bring democracy back to the country, with a view to preventing these regrettable events from recurring in  Honduras or in any other part of the world.
(11.3) The resolution that we have adopted will keep the focus on education, human rights and freedom of expression in  Honduras, and it mandates the Director-General to follow up on these important themes within his scope of competence.  Argentina prays for the swift reinstatement of democratic institutions in Honduras, and warmly commends the resistance of the  Honduran people. Thank you very much.
12. The President:   Thank you very much for your statement. I now give the floor to the representative of the United States of  America.
13. Mr Killion (United States of America):   Thank you, Mr President. I also want to express my deep gratitude to the working group, to the Chairperson of  the Education Commission, to Mr Jappie, who chaired the working group, and also to the distinguished Ambassador of  India, who demonstrated great wisdom and clear neutrality in drafting a compromise text. The United States believes that  the situation in Honduras is important and we are participating in the ongoing discussion in the Organization of American  States (OAS), the competent regional body, to deal with this issue. We have clearly and consistently expressed our  concern about the situation in Honduras within the OAS and, as appropriate, the United Nations and its specialized  bodies, such as the Human Rights Council. We understand that representatives of the de facto regime and President  Zelaya have reached agreement on most of the text of the Guaymuras Accord, based on the San José Accord, to  resolve the political crisis. We hope that the remaining outstanding issues will be resolved quickly and are urging both  sides to make the tough decisions necessary to achieve a final agreement. We are able to join consensus with this  particular resolution because it does not specifically reference or single out Honduras. As we have noted in our  discussions, UNESCO should not become a forum for country-specific resolutions. The focus of UNESCO should remain  on its core areas of competency and upon its programme of work. Accordingly, we are satisfied with the consensus text  because it notes that in cases where there is a breakdown in the political system of any Member State, UNESCO should  continue to provide its support to ensure that the education systems are not disrupted. Thank you, Mr President.
14. The President:   Thank you very much for your statement. I now give the floor to the distinguished representative of the  Dominican Republic.
(15.4) Ms Faxas (Dominican Republic) (translation from the Spanish):   Thank you Mr President. I would like to thank the President of the Conference and the Chairperson of the Education  Commission for their efforts to reach a consensus regarding the item on Honduras. I believe it is important that an organization  such as UNESCO and the General Conference as this institution’s highest authority should state its view on the impact of the  events in Honduras in its fields of competence. I am very pleased with this consensus. I would like to reiterate that this is a  very delicate subject for all GRULAC members, and this is why I wished to voice my opinion. Thank you very much.
16. The President:   Muchísimas gracias por su declaración. I now give the floor to the representative of the Bolivarian Republic of  Venezuela.
(17.1) Ms Sánchez Bello (Bolivarian Republic of Venezuela) (translation from the Spanish):    Thank you, Mr President. We wish to thank the President of the General Conference and the Chairperson of the  Education Commission, and also the Ambassador of India and the representative of South Africa, for their efforts towards  reaching a consensus regarding the situation in Honduras.
(17.2) In this regard, the Bolivarian Republic of Venezuela would like to express in this House (whose mandate is to defend  peace, freedom of expression and democratic principles and values), not only its condemnation and vehement rejection of the  coup in our sister State Honduras, but also its most profound indignation at the continued violation of the human rights of the  Honduran people, particularly children and young people, whose right to attend schools and universities today has been  curtailed. We likewise express our indignation at the systematic violation of the rules of international law enshrined in the  Vienna Convention on Diplomatic Relations, by laying siege for over a month to the embassy of our sister State, the  Federative Republic of Brazil. The Honduran coup regime even now continues to restrict the right to freedom of expression,  freedom of association and freedom of the press, as well as the right to inviolability and the free functioning of the media. We  welcome the resolution adopted during this General Conference, which is fully consistent with the concern of the international  community at this unfortunate time in Honduras’ history and Latin American democracy. Thank you, Mr President.
(18) The President (translation from the Spanish):    Many thanks for your statement. The representative of Cuba has the floor.
(19.1) Mr Hernández Pardo (Cuba) (translation from the Spanish):    Thank you very much, Mr President. First, I would like to associate myself with the acknowledgement and gratitude  expressed to you and the Chair of the Education Commission who so professionally and ably headed the Commission.
(19.2) You are fully aware of the efforts my delegation made to reach a consensus on the draft resolution on item 5.25  entitled “Impacts on the education system and freedom of expression as a consequence of the situation in Honduras”. Cuba  co-sponsored the initiative to include this item the agenda for well-founded reasons. Not only to recall the unanimous
312  condemnation by the international community, endorsed by the United Nations General Assembly and Human Rights Council,  of the military coup in Honduras, which disrupted the constitutional order of this country-a situation which persists and has not  been resolved. Not only to show our fundamental solidarity with the heroic and widespread peaceful resistance, which the  Honduran people have kept up for several months now, repressed every day by the police, and which has cost many lives,  numerous injuries and imprisonment. Not only because of the significance of this event for our region, engaged in changes  towards greater democracy and integration, but which in the recent past endured fascist military regimes, backed by external  forces, that caused the deaths of thousands of people in Argentina, Chile, Uruguay, Guatemala and other countries. Not only  because we must not allow the Brazilian diplomats to remain isolated in Tegucigalpa, their embassy brutally under siege by  the repressive forces of the de facto regime in outright violation of international law.
(19.3) But also and with much reason, because we are part of UNESCO and because words are for telling the truth, not for  dissimulating it. Because it is necessary to send a message of encouragement to the children of Honduras to whom the doors  of knowledge and schooling have been slammed shut; a message to the teachers who cannot do their jobs because the  military regime has taken away their right to teach. Because attention should be drawn to the brute force applied  indiscriminately to journalists.
(19.4) Mr President, a thinker and eminent figure of universal culture, whose name is borne by a prestigious UNESCO prize,  José Martí, said that to witness a crime and do notify about it is tantamount to committing it. And in Honduras, Mr President  and distinguished delegates, a crime is being committed against the most fundamental rights of peoples, affecting education  and information in particular. Many thanks.
(20) The President (translation from the Spanish):   Thank you very much. And now the representative of Guatemala has the floor.
(21.) Ms Ruano (Guatemala) (translation from the Spanish):    Thank you, Mr President. The Guatemalan delegation supports the statements made by the delegates of Brazil,  Argentina, the Dominican Republic, Venezuela and Cuba. My government strongly upholds democracy, the rule of law and  fundamental freedoms, essential for achieving peace and development. Since its outbreak, my country has strongly  condemned the coup in Honduras, which is by all standards unacceptable, and we hope that our sister country will soon return  to a normal democratic situation, thereby bringing peace to the region. Thank you.
22. The President:   Muchísimas gracias. I now give the floor to the distinguished representative of Canada.
23. Ms Cayer (Canada):   Thank you, Mr President. I would like to begin by thanking, through you, the Chairperson of the Education  Commission, Mr Hindle, for the excellent work of guiding us through the long deliberations that we had in the Education  Commission, including on this item for which a working group was convened. I would like to thank South Africa for their  able chairmanship of that group, and India for the support offered in order to find a consensus text on an issue which was  way away from finding consensus without that group. Canada does have a great deal of concern about the situation in  any country where there is a breakdown of democracy, where human rights may be abused and where education may  be jeopardized. That has never been in question. What has been in question for us, however, is the mandate of  UNESCO to be the forum through which we explore such failures and breakdowns. Canada has, through its interventions  in New York, Geneva and at the Organization of American States (OAS) in Washington, been very clear on our concern  about the situation in Honduras. We have also been very clear on our concern about the situation in other countries. We  have not raised these, however, at UNESCO. We have not raised them because UNESCO’s mandate is clearly to  encourage and pursue cultural, scientific and educational cooperation among States so that we can all achieve the noble  goals in our Constitution. We regret the fact that this meeting today is being taken up with a debate on the situation in an  individual country. We think that it is not measured to take on one country if we are not holding every other Member State  to the same standard at UNESCO. That is not our point here. We would associate ourselves with the other statement,  made by the United States, and hope that we do not go through this process again. Thank you.
24. The President:   Thank you. Distinguished delegates, I have four more speakers on my list and I intend to close the list after  these four speakers, so there will be no further comments on this report. Thank you very much. I give the floor now to the  representative of Chile.
(25.1) Ms Armanet (Chile) (translation from the Spanish):   Many thanks, Mr President. I join previous speakers in expressing my gratitude.
(25.2) My delegation co-sponsored the resolution before us since the principle of defending education systems and the  freedom of expression on which this is founded in consistent with the founding principles of UNESCO’s Constitution.
(25.3) I felt it necessary to intervene on this item to share our satisfaction and, more particularly, our profound and sincere  gratitude for the open-mindedness with which the debate on the content of this resolution was conducted and the attitude and  contributions which enabled a consensus to be reached on an issue in which UNESCO could not fail to be involved, especially  after having celebrated a short while ago the sixtieth anniversary of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. We are certain  – and for this reason we reiterate our gratitude to all the delegations that have participated in this achievement – that UNESCO  is taking a major step forward by supporting Member States whose education systems may be disrupted.
(25.4) Education, Mr President, as the Inter-American Democratic Charter demonstrates, is an effective medium for raising  citizens’ awareness of their own countries, thus helping them to become actively involved in the decision-making process,  reaffirming the importance of human resources development in achieving a solid democratic system. Education falls within the  scope of responsibilities of this House; as such, we must safeguard it, it is our obligation to protect it. Thank you very much.
(26) The President (translation from the Spanish):   Thank you very much. I now give the floor to the representative of Ecuador.
(27) Ms Vázquez-Bermúdez (Ecuador) (translation from the Spanish):   Thank you very much, Mr President. With regard to agenda item 5.25, my delegation congratulates all the  delegations most concerned and the facilitator who worked so hard to forge a consensus. It is important for UNESCO to have  expressed its opinion on matters falling within its fields of competence when the education system and freedom of expression  are affected, and also when democracy is compromised. Many thanks.
28. The President:   Muchas gracias. Now I give the floor to the representative of Saint Lucia.
29. Ms Lacœuilhe (Saint Lucia):   Thank you, Mr President. I would like first of all to congratulate you on your wisdom and on the excellent way in  which you have handled this item 5.25. I would, through you, also like to thank and congratulate the Chairperson of the  Education Commission for his leadership and for calling on the wonderful delegate from the South African delegation  who has done a great job facilitating the work of the working group. I would like also to thank all the members of the  working group for their spirit of consensus, especially the Indian Ambassador who was able, as you predicted, in fact,  even before it happened, Mr President, to produce the consensus text. We fully support the paragraph produced by the  working group, Mr President. It is general in its nature and concerns all Member States that experience a breakdown in  their political system which, of course, inevitably affects their education system. For Saint Lucia, it is important that  UNESCO sticks to its mandate and, in producing that general paragraph, I believe we have done so. Thank you,  Mr President.
30. The President:   Thank you very much for your statement. I now give the floor to the last speaker on the list, the Chair of the  Executive Board.
31.1 Le Président du Conseil exécutif :   Merci, Monsieur le Président. Rassurez-vous : ce n’est pas sur ce point que je voulais intervenir. Je souhaitais  féliciter M. Hindle et toute la Commission pour l’excellent travail accompli.
31.2 Je voulais également profiter de cette occasion, Monsieur le Président, pour distinguer une résolution qui, me  semble-t-il, ne va pas passer inaperçue et, au nom du Conseil exécutif, je voudrais remercier tous les États membres et  les féliciter d’avoir fait un geste historique, à savoir d’avoir pris la décision de créer l’Institut mahatma Gandhi d’éducation  pour la paix et le développement durable en tant qu’institut de l’UNESCO de catégorie 1.
31.3 À ce propos, je ferai deux remarques. Je souhaiterais que la prochaine administration ou la prochaine Directrice  générale, et la personne qui succédera à M. Burnett, qui s’en va, en tiennent compte. Il est un peu dommage, à mon avis,  que nous n’ayons pas songé à mettre l’accent sur le mahatma Gandhi et sa philosophie en tant que patrimoine de  l’humanité dans les considérants de la résolution sur ce point. Le temps m’a manqué alors que je voulais le suggérer à la  Commission. Nous avons évidemment fait allusion à la mission de l’UNESCO mais, à mon avis, nous aurions dû aussi  distinguer le mahatma par rapport à cette mission. Je ne compte pas proposer d’amendement, je tenais simplement à  formuler cette remarque.
31.4 Ma deuxième remarque porte sur les instituts de catégorie 1 en général et surtout, sur les trois derniers, y  compris celui pour lequel nous venons de prendre une décision. Il faudrait peut-être que le secteur l’éducation considère  la possibilité, si je puis dire, d’une discrimination positive en faveur des jeunes instituts de catégorie 1 qui se situent,  comme par hasard, dans les pays du Sud, et qui se sont contentés ces dernières années d’une portion congrue. J’attire  l’attention de tous les États membres sur ce point, ainsi que la vôtre, Monsieur le Sous-Directeur général pour  l’éducation. Veuillez laisser en legs cette question à celui ou celle qui vous succédera. Merci, Monsieur le Président.
32. The President:   Merci beaucoup, Monsieur le Président, de votre présentation. Now, ladies and gentlemen, before I make  another statement, I must, based on all the information we have here, give a great vote of thanks to Mr Hindle,  Chairperson of the ED Commission, for his leadership and to all of you, members of the Commission, for having  supported the views that have been expressed. Thank you very much.  Report of the CI Commission (Communication and information) (35 C/75)  Rapport de la Commission CI (Communication et information) (35 C/75)  Informe de la Comisión CI (Comunicación e información) (35 C/75)  Доклад Комиссии CI (Коммуникация и информация) (35 C/75)   )٣٥/٧٥()CI(אא 传播和信息委员会（CI）的报告（35 C/75）
33. The President:   Now let us turn our attention to the report of the CI Commission (Communication and information). The relevant  document is document 35 C/75, which is before you. I am pleased in this regard to give the floor to the Chairperson of  the CI Commission, Mr Ivan Avila Belloso. Sr Ávila Belloso, usted tiene la palabra.
(34.1) Mr Ávila Belloso (Venezuela) (Chairperson of the Communication and Information Commission – CI)   (translation from the Spanish):   Thank you, Mr President. President of the General Conference, Chair of the Executive Board, Director-General,  Excellencies, ladies and gentlemen, I am honoured to present to you an overview of the debates that took place during the
319  session of the Communication and Information Commission.  First though, I would like to express my appreciation to the Latin  America and Caribbean Group (GRULAC) of UNESCO and to my country Venezuela for proposing me as candidate to chair  the Communication and Information Commission, and to the General Conference for the trust it has placed in me by electing  me to this position. The CI Commission is very dear to my heart, as a professor in communication strategies, former journalist  and staunch believer in the value of communication and information for achieving the noble goals of this Organization.
(34.2) I would also like to acknowledge the collaboration of the other members of the Bureau of the Commission, namely,  Mr T. Trier from Denmark, Mr E. Kuzmin from the Russian Federation, Mr J. M. Adoua from Congo and Mr M. Razouk from the  Syrian Arab Republic, and also the Rapporteur Mr Martin Hadlow from Australia, who deserves special mention for his  outstanding work in recording both the content and the spirit of the proceedings.
(34.3) I also wish to thank the representatives of the Director-General, Mr Abdul Waheed Khan and Mr Hans d’Orville, for  their valuable participation in our discussions, as well as Mr Walter Fust, Chairman of the International Programme for the  Development of Communication (IPDC) and Mr Karol Jakubowicz, Chairman of the Information for All Programme (IFAP) – for  their useful insights into the activities of these two intergovernmental programmes shared with us in the Commissions. Mr  Jakubowicz unfortunately could not attend the meeting in person for medical reasons but graciously sent us detailed written  contributions. We wish him a speedy recovery.
(34.4) This expression of gratitude would not be complete if I did not mention the excellent work carried out by the team of  the Commission Secretariat, led by its Secretary Ms Cordula Gaschutz, in ensuring the smooth functioning of the  Commission’s proceedings and by all the Commissions members. Finally, a note of thanks to the translators and interpreters,  who made it possible for us to reflect the truly multicultural composition of our Commission, and also to the technicians for their  invaluable support.
(34.5) Let me now present to you the highlights of the three days of discussions during the Commission’s session, which  were structured around the following three items: item 4.2 “Consideration and adoption of the Draft Programme and Budget for
2010-2011”, Part II.A Major Programme V – Communication and Information (35 C/5): item 5.9 “Follow-up to the World  Summit on the Information Society” (35 C/46), and item 5.16 “International Federation of Library Associations and Institutions  (IFLA) Multicultural Library Manifesto” (35 C/51).
(34.6) Before we began our debates, Mr President, the Assistant Director-General of the Communication and Information  Sector, Mr Abdul Waheed Khan, briefed us on the current global situation in the communication and information field, and  went on to explain the work of the Sector, its priorities and the difficulties and challenges it currently faces. Attention was then  given to the two intergovernmental Communication and information programmes, the International Programme for the  Development of Communication (IPDC) and the Information for All Programme (IFAP).
(34.7) The Chairperson of the IPDC Intergovernmental Council of, Mr Walter Fust, gave an overview of IPDC’s unique  place within the United Nations system as the only programme of its type with a mandate to mobilize international support for  media development in developing countries. The financing of projects is the very backbone of its work, and it funded, for a  value of $3.66 million, 133 projects from 71 countries during 2008-2009. IPDC has launched three other very important new  initiatives, namely the Media Development Indicators (MDIs), Journalists’ Safety and the Danger of Impunity and, thirdly,  support for excellence in journalism education in Africa. Mr Fust noted that the MDIs had already been acknowledged by some  major actors in the media development field, such as The United Nations Development Programme (UNDP), the World Bank  and the Council of Europe, and highlighted their relevance for the development of United Nations Development Assistance  Frameworks (UNDAF). On the subject of the safety of journalists, Mr Fust pointed out that the IPDC Council had discussed a  report by the Director-General on the killing of journalists and had, as a consequence, undertaken to function as an oversight  body in this area. In supporting excellence among journalism education institutions in Africa, UNESCO, having identified 12  institutions with the potential to become centres of excellence within the next four to five years, was now building the  capacities of a number of them through IPDC. Mr Fust also acknowledged the financial contributions to IPDC of 16 donor  countries. He indicated that, while he was pleased to report that financial contributions to the programme had been steadily  increasing, IPDC was still under-resourced and he hoped more new donors would come on board.
(34.8) Concerning the Information for All Programme (IFAP), the report by the Director-General was presented by his  representative, Mr Abdul Waheed Khan, who highlighted the Director-General’s support for IFAP’s objectives and priorities,  and his wish to see increased extrabudgetary funding for the programme. The importance of IFAP in addressing the digital  divide was also stressed. In the absence of Mr Karol Jakubowicz, Chairperson of the Intergovernmental Council of the  Information for All Programme (IFAP), the delegate of Hungary presented the Council’s report on its activities. IFAP is  currently implementing its strategic plan, has revived its online Information Society Observatory and has developed an  extensive National Information Society Policy template. Mr Jakubowicz noted that IFAP has adopted five priority areas for its  work, namely information accessibility, information for development, information literacy, information ethics and information  preservation. He reminded the Commission that close cooperation between IFAP and the Secretariat was essential. IFAP  faces a shortage of resources for its projects and activities, and Mr Jakubowicz, while thanking donors, called for assistance  from the Communication and Information Sector in fund-raising activities.
(34.9) The Commission’s first debate, Mr President, delegates, related to the adoption of the Draft Programme and Budget  for 2010-2011. By way of introduction, the Assistant Director-General for Strategic Planning (ADG/BSP), Mr Hans d’Orville,  reminded us that UNESCO’s overall budget was $653 million, and that Major Programme V, the programme managed by the  Communication and Information Sector, had an allocation of $33 million, in other words 5% of the total budget. He emphasized  the various programming principles underlying document 35 C/5, while also underscoring the strengthening of UNESCO’s  contribution to the follow-up to the World Summit on the Information Society (WSIS) and noting the Sector’s “very prominent”  intersectoral work. The Assistant Director-General for Communication and Information, Mr Khan, then provided an outline of  Major Programme V, which is structured around three main lines of action (MLAs): first, promoting freedom of expression and  access to information; second, strengthening free, independent and pluralistic media and communication for sustainable  development; and third, fostering universal access to information and knowledge and the development of infostructures.
(34.10) Turning now, Mr President, to the comments from Member States, many delegates expressed their satisfaction with  the overall thrust of the programme and what one delegate called a “well-focused document”. However, some delegates still  believed that items were too general and that it would be hard to assess progress in delivery of outcomes, while comments  were also made that more targeting of funds allocation was needed to ensure the best effect. Universally, delegates expressed  their concern over the limited resources at the disposal of the Communication and Information Sector. Regarding the Sector’s  extrabudgetary programmes, there was a clear call for donors to provide more support for IFAP and IPDC (the latter often
320  referred to as a “flagship”). One delegate suggested that Member States might make available fully-funded consultants to be  utilized by the Organization as it saw fit in carrying out these programmes. Altogether, some 56 delegates took part in the  debate and, in my summary of our discussions, I have selected a number of recurring key themes which resonated time and  again during the sessions. For ease of reference, I have clustered these comments in the framework of the priority programme  areas within the Sector. In other words, how they relate to freedom of expression, democracy and peace; communication  development; and information and knowledge society issues.
(34.11) There was consistent support from delegates for UNESCO’s work in the area of freedom of expression. It was often  pointed out that free and independent media play a vital role in a democracy. One delegate, while supporting the ongoing work  being achieved, asked that UNESCO play a more proactive role in the field. It was suggested that freedom of expression  become, along with Africa and gender equality, one of the chief priorities of the Organization. “Freedom of expression and  freedom of the press belongs in the tool kit for development” was how it was put by a delegate. Another said “In the beginning  was the word: democracy”. Several delegates pointed out that the concentration of media ownership can be a problem in  ensuring plurality and diversity, and asked that this issue be factored into UNESCO’s discussions on freedom of the press.  While recognizing the right to freedom of expression, one delegate believed that it must come with accountability and social  responsibility. The delegate was of the view that the right to freedom of expression “is not absolute and is subject to a series of  measures in the interest of national security and public order, in order to avoid disruption of racial harmony, disintegration and  disunity of society”. Others, however, warned against the risk of interpreting social responsibility as the right to censor and put  limits on freedom of expression.
(34.12) The protection and safety of journalists was another consistent theme of concern expressed by many delegates in  Debate 1. A suggestion was made that the murder of journalists should be marked by one minute’s silence in newsrooms and  other places where journalists gather around the world. During the Commission’s later hearings, inspired by this suggestion, all  delegates stood in silence for one minute. One representative also called for a special international court of justice for  conducting trials of those accused of perpetrating crimes of violence, such as murder, against journalists.
(34.13) The commemoration of the work of the independent media through the holding of World Press Freedom Day (3 May)  events was applauded by delegates. Awareness-raising of freedom of expression and freedom of information was seen as a  valuable outcome of World Press Freedom Day activities. A request was made by one delegate for an allocation of resources  from UNESCO to assist Member States in holding individual World Press Freedom Day activities in conjunction with global  events.
(34.14) Many delegates spoke in support of IPDC’s innovative move to initiate Media Development Indicators (MDIs). There  was a call for them to be widely communicated and their use strengthened at United Nations level. “Results-based  management of media programmes needs statistical tools and indicators”, said one delegate in support of the introduction of  the MDIs by UNESCO. Several delegates congratulated and supported the IPDC function as an oversight body for the safety  of journalists, seeing it as an important way of ensuring that the spotlight continues to be shone on those who seek to cause  harm to professionals going about their work in the cause of press freedom and democracy. IPDC’s major role as a funder of  small-scale development projects was recognized in several interventions, especially support for capacity-building through  training activities. Universally, IPDC, as a body, found favour with delegates although, as has been mentioned previously, its  modest funding base gave cause for concern. Radio: In the rush to embrace new technologies, several delegates mentioned  that radio broadcasting was still the medium of choice in many countries and societies, especially where high rates of illiteracy  were prevalent. The strengthening of radio to ensure universal access by listeners was sought, as was UNESCO’s assistance  in further developing community radio stations and for the training of media workers. With regard to capacity-building, a  delegate from the small island developing States (SIDS), representing 17 other countries, challenged UNESCO to provide  assistance in a range of areas, not least in training in fields such as climate change, disaster management and the media, and  HIV/AIDS prevention.
(34.15) And now, subjects related to information and knowledge society: the digital divide. The digital divide was a recurrent  issue in the interventions of delegates. Several who enjoy more enhanced information infrastructure in their countries offered  to share their knowledge, while a call was made, in seeking to ensure access to the Internet for all, for consideration to be  given to enabling a diversity of cultures and language communities to find a place on the Internet. Free and open source  software: the use of free and open source software in computer applications was discussed, with UNESCO seen as being able  to play an important role in areas such as standard-setting. Access: a number of delegates were pleased that UNESCO had  brought the “human dimension” to the information and communication technology ICT revolution and was involved in content  issues rather than merely technology. Calls were made for training in ethical and human values, rather than just technical  training in the use of computers and the Internet.
(34.16) One delegation expressed the view that not enough attention had been given in the draft programme to the  requirements of access by disabled people. Special access to literature and the Internet for the blind and visually impaired  through the use of synthesizers and other technological tools was suggested. Media and information literacy (MIL): While  generally the benefits of the application of ICTs were seen as being positive, it was brought to the attention of the Commission  that negative aspects of ICTs, especially among young people, exist and that attention should be paid to overcoming these  through more media and information literacy training efforts.
(34.17) Memory of the world: The Memory of the World Programme was universally commended by delegates who spoke on  the subject, at least one indicating that it was their highest priority. The delegate of ICOM reminded the Commission that  “Museums and Memory” is the theme of International Museum Day in 2011 and that ICOM will collaborate with the Memory of  the World Programme in its implementation. Indigenous knowledge was the concern of a delegate from the Caribbean who  pointed out that while the creation of new knowledge was important, the preservation of ancient or ancestral knowledge was  equally important. This was especially so in the Small Island Developing States (SIDS) and the Memory of the World  Programme played an important role in this regard. Libraries: A number of pleas were made to support the establishment of  libraries, which are considered community resources of great value and should be accessible free of charge. IFAP: A donor  supporter of IFAP underlined the importance of voluntary extrabudgetary contributions to the IFAP Special Account and  suggested that all elected members of the IFAP Intergovernmental Council should make a yearly financial contribution to the  Account.
(34.18) Audiovisual heritage: A number of delegates expressed concern about the conservation and protection of the  audiovisual heritage. One delegation pointed out that, while UNESCO recognizes the World Day of the Audiovisual Heritage,  no mention is made in the draft programme of the importance of audiovisual documents. The representative of the  International Federation of film archives (FIAF) drew the attention of delegates to the fact that the member of film archives had
321  doubled in number in recent years and that the current principal FIAF objective was the protection and preservation of films in  Africa. Ladies and gentlemen, distinguished delegates, that brings me to the end of my report on Debate 1.
(34.19) I will not cover in this report the discussion concerning the adoption of the 20 draft resolutions submitted with  suggested amendments to the Draft Programme and Budget for 2010-2011 (35 C/5) as the outcomes of this debate are  already detailed in the written report of the Commission. I will simply draw your attention to a point raised by Cuba, which  explicitly asked for it to be put on record, concerning the importance of UNESCO stepping up progress in the development of  appropriate approaches, standards and practices for the information society, which ensure a balance between freedom and  social responsibility.
(34.20) The CI Commission’s second debate related to item 5.9: an examination of the report by the Director-General on the  follow-up to the World Summit on the Information Society. In his opening remarks to the debate, the Assistant Director-General  for Communication and Information, Mr Khan, gave an overview of the technology revolution now in progress. He drew the  attention of participants to the cluster of new electronic services, such as social networking, blogging, Internet streaming and  podcasting, that had emerged in recent years. It was extraordinary to learn that in 1993, there were barely 50 pages on the  Web while now there were billions. Thus, the pace of change was dramatically increasing and yet the digital divide continued  to be a major concern. Should the digital divide grow, some societies would risk becoming digitally illiterate. Mr Khan noted  that the new technologies enabled users to be both producers and consumers of content. This shift is having a major impact  on societies and strengthened the purpose of WSIS, which was “to build a people-centred, inclusive and development-oriented  information society, where everyone can create, access, utilize and share information and knowledge”. Mr Khan also  highlighted UNESCO’s approach to WSIS follow-up as a coordinator (such as The United Nations Group on the Information  Society (UNGIS) and the WSIS Forum), a lead facilitator (six out of 11 action lines) and as implementer. However, he  cautioned that, although more than three years had passed since the Tunis Summit of WSIS, the guidelines for United Nations  country teams preparing UNDAFs still do not contain an ICT for development component.
(34.21) Turning now to comments from Member States. There was consistent concern expressed by delegates about the  ongoing digital divide, with one calling for United Nations action to ensure special treatment for developing countries and those  not connected to the Web. Several speakers emphasized that the digital deride could be observed not only between countries  but also within countries, underlining in particular the urban/rural divide.Capacity-building to overcome digital divide issues was  a common call. Endorsement for UNESCO’s involvement in the post-WSIS process was widespread, but some delegates  stated that they were not fully convinced that satisfactory progress had been made. There was concern over what was  perceived as “weakness of strategy” and lack of vision and clear priorities. “It had been a slow start”, was the point of view of  another delegate, who felt that UNESCO had not really managed to put its stamp on WSIS outcomes. The theme of  multilingualism was one which arose time and time again, with many commenting that it was important not only to provide e- teaching or e-learning, but also to reflect cultural and linguistic diversity in cyberspace. Several delegates expressed support  for a resolution on the establishment of a cyber network for learning languages, which China had submitted to UNESCO’s  Executive Board at its 180th session and for the proposed by one Member State to declare an international decade of  languages. Open access to scientific information was a subject which found support among several speakers, while another  delegate mentioned that the key issue today was ‘Internet neutrality’ and that UNESCO must be involved as a leading actor in  the internet-related governance forums of the future.
(34.22) Mr President and distinguished delegates, the Commission explicitly asked, however, that the oral report of the  Chairperson take note of the fact that UNESCO's involvement in the debates on Internet governance, especially at the Internet  Governance Forum, should be focused on issues directly related to its mandate, in particular freedom of expression,  multilingualism, content development, education, sciences and culture. Media and information literacy is an area of concern to  many Member States and, as young people are heavy users of the Internet, it was suggested that UNESCO should take the  lead in this educational field. The human element of UNESCO’s role in the WSIS follow-up was a constant theme of the  debate, with a number of speakers pointing to the importance of a people-oriented information society. “Without UNESCO, we  would have an information society of cables, computers and copyright”, noted one delegate, “but thanks to UNESCO, a human  dimension is there.”
(34.23) Ladies and gentlemen, before I proceed with a brief summary of Debate 3, I wish to note that the Commission asked  to place on record its call for a review of the procedures for examining and adopting draft resolutions (DRs). Several speakers  expressed their dissatisfaction with the explanations provided by the UNESCO Secretariat as to why the large screens behind  the podium could not be used to project the text of the DRs, failing which delegates could not follow the amendments properly  and make comments accordingly. The Secretary of the General Conference argued that all Commission discussions needed  to be in the six official languages of UNESCO and that it would not be possible to project the text in all six on the screens. He  also noted that DRs needed to be received by the Secretariat well in advance, and that only minor amendments from the floor  could be made. I wish to point out that thanks to the speedy action of the Secretariat, we were able to receive the full text with  all the DR amendments in written form. However, a number of delegates refuted the explanations, claiming that displaying the  DRs on the screens in two languages – English and French – would be sufficient and that more modern and effective working  methods were needed to improve the work of the Commission.
(34.24) The Commission’s third debate related to an examination of the International Federation of Library Associations and  Institutions (IFLA) Multicultural Library Manifesto. The Assistant Director-General, Mr Khan, informed the Commission that  IFAP had examined the document and had recommended that it be placed before the General Conference. The Manifesto had  the key objective of encouraging universal access to information and thus contributing to sustainable development. Mr Khan  noted that the Manifesto recognized the core mission of a library in on environment of cultural and linguistic diversity, which  includes providing services that respect the cultural identity of communities without discrimination and offering access to  information in different languages.
(34.25) The IFLA representative, Mr Stuart Hamilton, pointed out that UNESCO backing for the Manifesto would give it great  impetus. He noted that the Manifesto is in line with both the principles of UNESCO’s Declaration on Cultural Diversity and  those of the WSIS Declaration.
(34.26) Full support for the Manifesto was expressed by the Member States who took the floor in the Commission. The  overriding view was that the Manifesto could serve as a tool for guiding policies in this area. It was “a road map for the libraries  of the 21st century”, as one delegate put it.  On the subject of costs, a delegate felt that the wording “free [of charge]” would be  appropriate for the Manifesto in order to ensure that everyone is in a position to access the services offered free by public  libraries. There was a plea from one delegate to take into account the situation of poorer nations where the rising cost of books  made it difficult for people to buy them. It was also stressed that public libraries played an important role for refugees and
322  migrants, as they could use the facilities to stay in touch with their cultural background. Finally, the value of libraries to minority  and indigenous language groups was also highlighted.
(34.27) Ladies and gentlemen, before ending, I would like to briefly refer to the observation of the distinguished delegate of  Venezuela during the sixth meeting of the Commission devoted to the adoption of the report, which referred to an issue not on  the agenda of the General Conference, but concerned the statement of the Director-General on the media situation in  Venezuela that was disseminated on UNESCO’s website as press release No. 2009 – 92 of 12 August 2009. Venezuela  expressed regret about the Organization’s policy not to grant a right of reply to Member States contesting a press release on  UNESCO’s website.
(34.28) Ladies and gentlemen, distinguished delegates, I have tried in this report to provide you with an overview of the most  salient issues that came up during the Commission’s debates. I hope that I have managed to capture the richness of our  discussions and adequately reflect the diversity of opinions expressed. Freedom of expression was certainly viewed by all  participants as the overarching element of UNESCO’s media development strategy. Before ending, Mr President, I wish to  express a thought which reflects the spirit of the discussions among the speakers who participated actively in the work of this  Commission of the 35th  UNESCO General Conference. A frank dialogue between individuals, which is possible thanks to full  and responsible freedom of expression, constitutes an authentic platform for strengthening dialogue between civilizations. A  dialogue which promotes peace and freedom among peoples worldwide. A dialogue which brings about true communication,  that is, happiness for all people and peoples of the world. In the words of Octavio Paz, “Democracy is freedom because  without democracy, freedom is but a chimera”. Thank you, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, distinguished delegates, thank  you very much.
(35.1) Mr President (translation from the Spanish):   Mr Belloso, many thanks for your interesting report. Furthermore, please allow me to extend my gratitude to all the  members of the Commission for their successful work, and I wish to thank you once again for heading this Commission. Thank  you very much.  (The President continues in English)
35.2 Are there any comments on this report? Shall I then declare that the plenary takes note of the report of the CI  Commission and hereby approves the draft resolutions proposed therein, subject to the decisions that the Conference  may take on budgetary issues when adopting the Appropriation Resolution for 2010-2011? Thank you very much. It is so  decided.  Report of the SC Commission (Natural sciences) (35 C/72)  Rapport de la Commission SC (Sciences exactes et naturelles) (35 C/72)  Informe de la Comisión SC (Ciencias exactas y naturales) (35 C/72)  Доклад Комиссии SC (Естественные науки) (35 C/72)  א  )٣٥/٧٢()SC(א 自然科学委员会（SC）的报告（35 C/72）
36. The President:   We will now examine our last report for today, the report of the SC Commission (Natural sciences). The relevant  document is document 35 C/72. I now invite the Chairperson of the SC Commission, Mr Anguelov, to take the floor. You  have the floor, Sir.
37.1 M. Anguelov (Bulgarie) (Président de la Commission SC – Sciences exactes et naturelles) :   Monsieur le Président, Mesdames et Messieurs les délégués, Chers collègues de la Commission Éducation et  de la Commission Communication et information, Mesdames et Messieurs, je suis très heureux de présenter les  conclusions des travaux de la Commission SC à cette honorable assemblée. Avant tout, qu’il me soit permis de  commencer ce rapport en exprimant quelques hommages et remerciements, d’abord à mes collègues du bureau, les  Vice-Présidents M. Gaardhøje (Danemark), Mme Landenheim (Argentine), M. Ehile (Côte d’Ivoire), M. Luis (Malaisie),  mais surtout au Rapporteur, qui a largement contribué à l’établissement du rapport que j’ai devant moi, M. El-Zahaby  (Égypte). J’aimerais aussi rendre hommage à la secrétaire de notre Commission, Mme Meriem Bouamrane, et à son  excellente équipe. Sans leur aide, le travail de la Commission aurait été impossible. J’aimerais encore remercier les  représentants du Directeur général et le Sous-Directeur général pour les sciences exactes et naturelles, M. Walter  Erdelen, ainsi que le Secrétaire exécutif de la Commission océanographique intergouvernementale, M. Patricio Bernal,  avec qui nous avons aussi collaboré très fructueusement au cours des travaux de la Commission.
37.2 La Commission Sciences exactes et naturelles a commencé ses travaux le mercredi 14 octobre et a tenu quatre  séances ainsi qu’une réunion conjointe avec la Commission Sciences sociales et humaines le 16 octobre au matin.  Quelques mots sur l’organisation et les méthodes de travail de la Commission. Les travaux de la Commission SC se  sont organisés autour de cinq points de l’ordre du jour. Je présenterai les résultats de nos travaux en suivant le  calendrier qui a été adopté et qui est également repris dans le rapport écrit. Avant l’examen du Projet de programme et  de budget pour 2010-2011 en ce qui concerne les sciences exactes et naturelles, le Président du Programme  hydrologique international a donné lecture de la Déclaration conjointe des présidents des six programmes scientifiques  de l’UNESCO, que j’énumère : le Programme international relatif aux sciences fondamentales (PISF), le Programme  international de géosciences (PICG), le Programme hydrologique international (PHI), la Commission océanographique
323  intergouvernementale (COI), le Programme sur l’homme et la biosphère (MAB) et le Programme « Gestion des  transformations sociales » (MOST).
37.3 Au nom des présidents de tous les programmes intergouvernementaux et internationaux, le Président du PHI a  fait observer que les programmes de l’UNESCO dans le domaine des sciences exactes et naturelles et des sciences  sociales devraient être renforcés de manière à permettre à l’Organisation de contribuer de façon significative aux actions  qu’il est nécessaire de mener à l’échelle mondiale dans ses différents domaines de compétence. Les programmes  scientifiques intergouvernementaux et internationaux sont conscients de l’importance du rôle de la science dans la  poursuite du savoir et du développement durable, ainsi que dans la promotion d’un dialogue constructif entre les  civilisations. Pour relever des défis majeurs tels que la pauvreté, la biodiversité, la dégradation de l’environnement, le  changement climatique, les catastrophes naturelles et les besoins énergétiques, il faut des connaissances nouvelles. Il a  déclaré que l’enseignement scientifique et le renforcement des capacités dans tous les domaines spécifiques étaient des  conditions préalables à l’élaboration des technologies nouvelles et à venir et donc, à l’innovation et à la croissance  nécessaires au développement. Seule institution du système des Nations Unies dotée d’un mandat en sciences,  l’UNESCO et ses secteurs des sciences sont donc le vecteur le mieux adapté à la coopération mondiale et au  renforcement de la confiance et de la tolérance, et constituent un outil incomparable pour parvenir à la paix et au  développement dans des conditions très difficiles. Il a déclaré en outre que les cinq programmes scientifiques  internationaux de l’UNESCO et la COI offraient des liens directs avec la communauté scientifique mondiale et que  chacun d’eux avait déjà obtenu d’importants succès dans ses domaines d’activité propres. Il a ajouté que les  programmes scientifiques intergouvernementaux et internationaux répondaient aux recommandations du Comité chargé  de l’examen d’ensemble des grands programmes II et III. Enfin, il a affirmé que ces réalisations pourraient être  considérablement renforcées pourvu que le soutien politique et financier nécessaire soit accordé par la nouvelle  Directrice générale et par les États membres.
37.4 Je passe maintenant au point relatif au Projet de programme et de budget pour 2010-2011, grand programme II.  La Commission a commencé ses travaux par le point 4.2 de l’ordre du jour – Examen et adoption du Projet de  programme et de budget pour 2010-2011 – Partie II.A : grand programme II – Sciences exactes et naturelles. Les  représentants du Directeur général, le Sous-Directeur général pour la planification stratégique, le Sous-Directeur général  pour les sciences exactes et naturelles et le Secrétaire exécutif de la COI ont présenté ce point. Le Sous-Directeur  général pour la planification stratégique a tout d’abord fait référence à la Stratégie à moyen terme pour 2008-2013 (34  C/4), avec ses cinq objectifs primordiaux et ses 14 objectifs stratégiques de programme. Il a insisté sur l’importance  d’une continuité sans hiatus entre le C/4 et le C/5. Il a mis en exergue les priorités globales en faveur de l’Afrique et de  l’égalité entre les sexes, ainsi que l’adéquation des axes d’action avec les Objectifs du Millénaire pour le développement,  l’application rigoureuse de la méthode de gestion, la réforme des Nations Unies, la réforme interne à l’UNESCO et la  nécessité d’accroître la pertinence et la visibilité. Le Sous-Directeur général pour les sciences exactes et naturelles a  noté les événements qui avaient contribué à façonner le Projet de programme pour l’exercice financier suivant. Il a fait  valoir que le S dans UNESCO ne représente pas simplement la science mais la science au service du développement  durable. Il a souligné que le prochain exercice biennal correspond au deuxième exercice biennal couvert par la Stratégie  à moyen terme. Évoquant l’examen des grands programmes II (Sciences exactes et naturelles) et III (Sciences sociales  et humaines) effectué en 2006-2007, il a indiqué qu’il était prévu que les recommandations découlant de cet examen  soient mises en œuvre intégralement pendant la période couverte par la Stratégie à moyen terme. Il a ajouté que, sur la  base des réalisations des deux années précédentes, la mise en œuvre de ces recommandations avait commencé en
2008-2009 et se poursuivrait. Il a mentionné le rang de priorité élevé accordé à la politique scientifique dans le Secteur  des sciences exactes et naturelles à travers le renforcement du programme relatif à une politique intégrée en matière de  science, de technologie et d’innovation (STI). Une augmentation budgétaire de 37,5 % en ce qui concerne le programme  relatif aux politiques de STI en 2010-2011 a été proposée. Toutefois, l’enveloppe budgétaire étant pratiquement  inchangée, le renforcement de la politique scientifique implique de prélever des fonds sur les ressources destinées aux  autres programmes au sein du secteur.
37.5 Le Secrétaire exécutif de la COI a présenté le quatrième axe d’action et a fait part de sa satisfaction quant au  budget de la COI pour l’exercice biennal en cours, qui a fourni une base de travail stable. Il a remercié les États  membres du soutien actif qu’ils avaient apporté à l’élaboration du Programme de la COI pour 2010-2011. Au cours de  l’exercice, les travaux de la COI seront centrés sur l’amélioration de la gouvernance et la promotion de la coopération  intergouvernementale par le biais des sciences et des services océaniques. Enfin, il a présenté les cinq actions autour  desquelles le programme de la COI s’organisera.
37.6 Le représentant de l’Inde a brièvement pris la parole pour rendre compte, au nom de 32 ministres et de
60 délégations, des conclusions et recommandations de la Table ronde ministérielle sur les océans sur le thème « Vers  une gestion avisée des océans : la contribution de l’UNESCO à une gouvernance responsable des océans ». Les États  membres sont invités à consulter le document 35 C/INF.29 pour des informations plus détaillées.
37.7 Mesdames et Messieurs, au cours du débat qui a suivi, 52 orateurs et deux observateurs ont pris la parole. La  majorité des États membres ont exprimé leur appui à l’axe d’action 2 relatif à l'enseignement scientifique et au  renforcement des capacités dans le domaine des sciences et de l’ingénierie, soulignant l’importance du Programme  international relatif aux sciences fondamentales (PISF), et ont confirmé leur appui aux priorités globales en faveur de  l’Afrique et de l’égalité entre les sexes. La priorité accordée aux politiques en matière de science, de technologie et  d’innovation a été appréciée, mais plusieurs délégations ont regretté que, du fait de cette priorité, le budget prévu soit  limité pour les autres programmes. Toutefois, certains représentants ont fait valoir avec insistance que l’UNESCO  devrait : premièrement, se centrer sur les priorités véritables et éviter les programmes qui font double emploi ;  deuxièmement, jouer le rôle de conseiller pour les politiques et ne pas financer elle-même la recherche ; troisièmement,  aider les États membres à formuler des politiques en matière de recherche et à les développer ; quatrièmement,
324  intensifier le renforcement des capacités et la coopération internationale, en particulier à l’échelle régionale, dans les  domaines de la science, de la technologie et de l’innovation. Le rapport d’experts sur l’examen d’ensemble des grands  programmes II et III a été mentionné, certains États membres s’interrogeant sur la mise en œuvre des recommandations  qu’il contient – la question a été aussi longuement discutée au sein du Conseil exécutif, à sa 176e session. Plusieurs  délégués ont fait observer que les programmes scientifiques intergouvernementaux et internationaux pourraient tirer un  parti considérablement plus important de leurs activités grâce à la participation intersectorielle, en étant mieux  concentrés et en améliorant la coordination entre eux et avec les centres et instituts de catégories 1 et 2.
37.8 De nombreux délégués ont souhaité un renforcement de la coopération Sud-Sud dans le domaine de la  recherche comme dans celui d’un enseignement scientifique de qualité. Ils ont également insisté sur la nécessité de  renforcer les synergies entre les secteurs des sciences et de l’éducation, en soulignant l’importance de l’approche  interdisciplinaire. Les activités considérables de renforcement des capacités menées par le Centre international Abdus  Salam de physique théorique de Trieste (CIPT) et par le Centre international de mathématiques pures et appliquées  (CIMPA) ont été évoquées. De nombreux pays ont mentionné l’importance et la pertinence des programmes  scientifiques intergouvernementaux/internationaux pour les travaux du Secteur des sciences exactes et naturelles.  Nombre de délégations se sont félicitées des résultats obtenus par le PHI, le MAB, le PICG, le PISF et la COI, qui offrent  des compétences et des informations dans des domaines comme le développement durable, le renforcement des  capacités, le changement climatique, la gestion des ressources en eau, la préparation aux catastrophes et leur mitigation,  la biodiversité, les sciences de la terre et la coopération internationale. Des États membres ont déploré les réductions  des crédits accordés aux programmes scientifiques intergouvernementaux/internationaux, estimant que l’on ne pouvait  accepter qu’ils soient compromis pour accorder davantage de fonds à un programme prioritaire. L’insuffisance du  financement du grand programme II dans son ensemble a été évoquée à plusieurs reprises. Certains représentants des  États membres se sont déclarés intéressés par l’étude des problèmes que posent le développement durable, le  changement climatique, la mitigation des catastrophes naturelles, la gestion des ressources en eau, l’environnement  marin et le dessalement des eaux. D’autres délégués ont évoqué la vulnérabilité particulière des petits États insulaires  en développement aux impacts du changement climatique, et la nécessité d’initiatives concrètes dans ce domaine.  Quelques pays ont également évoqué la vulnérabilité des zones arctiques. D’autres encore ont insisté sur l’importance  que conservent les systèmes de connaissances locaux et autochtones dans les efforts de développement durable.
37.9 Chers collègues, Honorables délégués, Mesdames et Messieurs, de nombreux pays ont rappelé le soutien qu’ils  apportent au Programme sur l’homme et la biosphère (MAB) et à son réseau mondial de réserves de biosphère, qui sont  largement reconnus comme « lieux d’apprentissage au service du développement durable ». Plusieurs pays ont noté la  solidité du Réseau mondial de sites, mentionnant en particulier les réserves de biosphère transfrontières et l’utilisation  de ces sites comme laboratoires du développement durable. Quelques délégations ont pris note de la nécessité d’inclure  les sciences de la Terre dans les recherches sur le changement climatique par le biais du Programme international de  géosciences (PICG). Trois délégués ont souligné l’importance de l’activité des géoparcs en tant que vecteur de choix  pour associer sciences et culture et stimuler le développement durable au niveau local. Face aux problèmes de  ressources en eau, d’écohydrologie, d’eaux transfrontières, de gestion des ressources en eau et d’éducation dans le  domaine de l’eau, le travail du Programme hydrologique international (PHI) et de l’Institut UNESCO-IHE pour l’éducation  relative à l’eau a été apprécié par certains pays, qui ont demandé que l’un et l’autre puissent continuer de bénéficier d’un  soutien.
37.10 De nombreuses délégations ont reconnu l’efficacité des Années internationales, en ce qu’elles attirent l’attention  du grand public sur les sciences et accroissent la visibilité de l’UNESCO. Certaines délégations ont relevé le succès de  l’Année internationale de la planète Terre (2008) et de l’Année internationale de l’astronomie (2009), attendant avec  intérêt le lancement et la célébration des Années internationales de la biodiversité (2010) et de la chimie (2011). Dans sa  réponse à l’issue du débat, le Sous-Directeur général pour les sciences exactes et naturelles a exprimé sa gratitude aux  États membres pour le solide appui qu’ils ont apporté aux travaux concernant le 35 C/5 et les a remerciés pour leurs  propositions et critiques constructives. Le Secrétaire exécutif de la COI a pris note des observations positives formulées  par les délégués à l’intention de la COI, dont il s’est félicité. Deux délégués ont ensuite fait observer qu’il fallait procéder  à une budgétisation précise et détaillée s’agissant de l’exécution du programme. À la fin du débat, la Commission a  examiné les recommandations du Conseil exécutif concernant le Projet de programme et de budget pour 2010-2011,  ainsi que 13 projets de résolution présentés par les États membres. Les résultats de nos travaux vous sont soumis pour  examen et approbation dans le rapport écrit de la Commission.
37.11 Une séance spéciale consacrée au Programme international relatif aux sciences fondamentales sur le thème  « Les sciences fondamentales, levier du développement : le rôle des partenaires de l’UNESCO », a été organisée le  mercredi 14 octobre, avant la séance de l’après-midi. Y a notamment participé le Ministre portugais de la science, de la  technologie et de l’enseignement supérieur, M. Mariano Gago, qui a appelé l’attention sur l’utilité d’une évaluation  indépendante des programmes nationaux relatifs aux sciences fondamentales, qui tiendrait compte des aspects  économiques et sociaux. Il a également mis l’accent sur l’importance de la technologie comme moyen de régler les  problèmes des pays en développement. Le Directeur général du CERN (Organisation européenne pour la recherche  nucléaire) à Genève, M. Rolf Heuer, a insisté sur la nécessité de renforcer le partenariat CERN-UNESCO afin de faire  avancer l’enseignement scientifique et technologique.
37.12 J’en viens au point concernant la création de centres de catégorie 2 placés sous l’égide de l’UNESCO, à  laquelle la troisième séance de la Commission a été consacrée. Le Sous-Directeur général pour les sciences exactes et  naturelles a présenté les nouveaux centres de catégorie 2 proposés, ainsi que leurs objectifs. Au total, 47 orateurs ont  pris la parole pour appuyer et approuver à l’unanimité la création des nouveaux centres de catégorie 2 placés sous  l’égide de l’UNESCO. Les États membres ont dit vouloir collaborer avec les centres et ont exprimé l’espoir que les  travaux de ces centres profiteraient à tous. Une fois de plus, certains délégués se sont dits préoccupés par le budget
325  limité du grand programme II, évoquant la question du déséquilibre existant entre les coûts de personnel et les  ressources allouées aux activités de programme. Cela étant, quelques pays ont souligné l’importance du rôle joué par le  personnel dans l’exécution du mandat de l’UNESCO. Une délégation a mentionné le rôle que jouait l’UNESCO pour tirer  le plus grand parti possible des centres de catégorie 2 auprès des États membres, même en l’absence de relations  diplomatiques. S’agissant des centres de catégorie 2 proposés traitant de questions relatives à l’eau, de nombreuses  délégations se sont félicitées des bienfaits de la coopération et ont proposé d’étudier les possibilités de créer des  synergies entre les centres dans le cadre d’activités conjointes.
37.13 Dans sa réponse, le Sous-Directeur général pour les sciences exactes et naturelles a pris note de l’appui des  États membres et a confirmé l’existence de perspectives de coopération et d’interaction. Pour les centres de catégorie 2  traitant de questions relatives à l’eau, il existe déjà une stratégie de mise en réseau impliquant les 20 centres, des  centres de catégorie 1 et d’autres institutions. La Commission a ensuite recommandé à la Conférence générale  d’adopter toutes les résolutions qui proposent la création de neuf centres de catégorie 2 placés sous l’égide de  l’UNESCO.
37.14 Je passe au point intitulé « Programme sur l’homme et la biosphère (MAB) et contribution du Réseau mondial  de réserves de biosphère au développement durable », proposé par l’Allemagne et au titre duquel elle a présenté un  projet de résolution. Le point 5.15 – c’était son titre – mettait l’accent sur l’importance des réserves de biosphère en tant  qu’espaces d’apprentissage en vue du développement durable. Il préconisait un recours accru, au sein de l’UNESCO,  aux options et services du Programme MAB et du Réseau mondial de réserves de biosphère. En présentant ce point, le  délégué de l’Allemagne s’est félicité du Plan d'action de Madrid pour les réserves de biosphère, en vigueur jusqu’à 2013,  et a souligné en quoi le projet de résolution, qui avait reçu l’appui d’autres pays, permettrait de faire progresser la mise  en œuvre du Plan. Il a expliqué que l’UNESCO devait mieux mettre à profit les options et services du Programme MAB  et du Réseau mondial de réserves de biosphère, en particulier sur le plan intersectoriel, moyennant des relations avec  tous les secteurs. Le projet de résolution engageait le Directeur général à rechercher des fonds extrabudgétaires et le  priait de présenter un rapport d’étape sur la mise en œuvre du Plan d’action de Madrid. Trente-trois États membres ont  ensuite pris la parole, accueillant favorablement l’initiative de l’Allemagne et apportant leur soutien au projet de résolution,  en soulignant notamment l’importance des éléments suivants : la fonctionnalité du Réseau mondial de réserves de  biosphère ; les réserves de biosphère transfrontières ; le changement climatique et les zones côtières ; l’augmentation  des synergies entre le MAB et d’autres programmes et conventions, en particulier la Convention du patrimoine mondial.  Le Sous-Directeur général s’est ensuite félicité du vaste soutien témoigné à l’égard du Programme MAB. Il a indiqué que  l’évaluation des atouts et des faiblesses des réserves de biosphère se poursuivrait. Il a ajouté que la région  méditerranéenne devait faire l’objet d’études ciblées au niveau de certains sites. Le projet de résolution a été adopté  avec trois amendements.
37.15 Le point suivant est le point 5.24 « Réalisation par l’UNESCO d’une étude de faisabilité concernant la création  d’un programme international d’ingénierie ». Le point 5.24 prévoyait la réalisation d’une étude de faisabilité concernant la  création d’un programme international d’ingénierie. Le Sous-Directeur général pour les sciences exactes et naturelles a  présenté ce point en soulignant le rôle et l’importance de l’ingénierie dans le développement économique et social, les  préoccupations face au manque de capacités en ingénierie à travers le monde et la nécessité qui s’ensuit de renforcer  les capacités humaines et institutionnelles dans ce domaine. Vingt-neuf intervenants ont pris la parole lors du débat qui a  suivi. Dans son intervention, la représentante de l’Afrique du Sud, à l’origine de ce point, a mentionné le Plan d'action  consolidé de l'Afrique dans le domaine de la science et la technologie, qui insiste sur le renforcement des capacités et,  en particulier, sur l’amélioration de la qualité de la formation en ingénierie et sur l’augmentation du nombre d’ingénieurs.  Par ailleurs, elle a souligné le manque de capacités en ingénierie de huit pays de la Communauté de développement de  l'Afrique australe. L’étude de faisabilité proposée serait donc une suite ciblée et opportune du Plan d’action consolidé.  Les États membres ont été unanimes à reconnaître l’importance de l’ingénierie pour le développement durable et  nombre d’entre eux ont appuyé la proposition. D’autres délégations ont hésité à la soutenir en raison du budget déjà  limité du secteur et de la nécessité d’une formulation plus ciblée. Au terme d’un débat, une modification a été proposée  pour indiquer que l’étude de faisabilité serait financée par des ressources extrabudgétaires et que l’accent serait placé  sur le renforcement du programme d’ingénierie. Vous trouverez le projet de résolution proposé dans le rapport écrit qui a  déjà été examiné en commission et qui est donc également à votre disposition.
37.16 Le point suivant, à savoir le point 5.12 intitulé L’UNESCO et l’action mondiale pour faire face au changement  climatique, a été examiné, ainsi que deux projets de résolution y relatifs dans le cadre de notre réunion conjointe avec la  Commission des sciences sociales et humaines. En présentant ce point et le premier projet de résolution, la Présidente  de la Commission nationale danoise pour l’UNESCO a demandé que des mesures soient prises d’urgence pour faire  face au changement climatique. Elle a souligné à quel point il était important de saisir l’occasion offerte de débattre du  défi spécifique que pose le changement climatique. Elle a déclaré que la plate-forme intersectorielle sur le changement  climatique devait avoir un impact ciblé sur l’action mondiale pour faire face à ce phénomène à la lumière de la  Conférence des Nations Unies sur le changement climatique de Copenhague qui aurait lieu d’ici quelques semaines, et  s’est interrogée sur la contribution possible de l’UNESCO à une action mondiale pour faire face au changement  climatique.
37.17 Le Secrétaire exécutif de la COI a rappelé le travail effectué par la plate-forme intersectorielle sur le  changement climatique et par l’UNESCO. L’UNESCO gère la recherche scientifique sur le changement climatique  conjointement avec le Groupe d’experts intergouvernemental sur l’évolution du climat, finance le Programme mondial de  recherche sur le climat et coordonne toutes les observations des océans. Elle participe également aux activités menées  à l’échelle du système des Nations Unies afin de faire face au changement climatique et a un rôle à jouer dans la  sensibilisation au changement climatique dans le cadre de l’éducation au service du développement durable.
37.18 Trente-cinq orateurs et deux observateurs ont pris la parole. Les États membres ont approuvé à l’unanimité la  résolution. En ce qui concerne les méthodes de travail de l’UNESCO, ils ont souligné que l’action mondiale pour faire  face au changement climatique était une excellente occasion pour les secteurs de travailler ensemble dans le cadre des  programmes scientifiques intergouvernementaux/internationaux et d’obtenir ainsi des résultats concrets et décisifs. En  étroite coordination avec d’autres institutions des Nations Unies, l’UNESCO devrait mettre à profit ses connaissances et  axer ses efforts sur la question de l’impact dévastateur du changement climatique sur les petits États insulaires en  développement et la vulnérabilité des peuples autochtones et des secteurs les plus pauvres de la société. De  nombreuses délégations ont souligné que l’UNESCO devrait recourir à des approches interdisciplinaires et ont insisté  sur le rôle de la plate-forme intersectorielle en tant qu’outil indispensable à une action efficace. Plusieurs pays ayant  connu récemment des tsunamis, des inondations et d’autres catastrophes naturelles aux conséquences dévastatrices  ont souligné la nécessité urgente d’une action immédiate, s’appuyant sur le Secteur des sciences exactes et naturelles  pour mieux comprendre ces phénomènes et le changement climatiques. De nombreux délégués ont réitéré la nécessité  de sensibiliser l’opinion, de donner des conseils en matière de politiques et de renforcer les capacités de réaction au  changement climatique, ainsi que prêter assistance aux pays affectés pour atténuer les conséquences des catastrophes  en tenant compte de leur impact social. Un délégué a fait part de ses doutes concernant les projections actuelles  relatives au changement climatique, tout en recommandant de prêter une attention accrue à la recherche. Un autre  représentant a souligné la nécessité urgente de réorganiser la recherche interdisciplinaire. Une autre délégation a  suggéré de créer un prix UNESCO qui serait décerné aux meilleurs projets ayant permis de réduire l’impact du  changement climatique.
37.19 Dans leurs réponses, les représentants du Directeur général ont indiqué que l’UNESCO disposait d’une base  solide pour faire face aux nombreuses facettes des défis posés par le changement climatique : éducation au service du  développement durable, sensibilisation de l’opinion grâce aux médias, éducation aux valeurs et à l’éthique, politiques  publiques régulant les impacts sociaux, Programme sur l’homme et la biosphère et Réseau mondial de réserves de  biosphère et autres programmes scientifiques internationaux. En particulier, le Secrétaire exécutif de la COI a assuré les  États membres que des efforts intenses étaient déployés pour mettre en œuvre et coordonner les actions du système  des Nations Unies.
37.20 Monsieur le Président, Chers collègues, en ce qui concerne le deuxième projet de résolution, il a été présenté  par le délégué de Saint-Kitts-et-Nevis qui a souligné la vulnérabilité des petits États insulaires en développement, les  énormes difficultés qu’ils devaient affronter et leur besoin urgent d’une action et d’une assistance immédiates de la part  de l’UNESCO. Les représentants du Directeur général ont réaffirmé être bien conscients de l’impact du changement  climatique sur les petits États insulaires en développement et de la nécessité de faire progresser l’action de l’UNESCO  grâce à des approches intersectorielles. Les États membres ont approuvé à l’unanimité la deuxième résolution. Une  délégation a demandé en particulier que soient mises en œuvre les actions spécifiques ci-après : que le changement  climatique fasse partie du programme de l’ONU « Unis dans l’action » ; que chaque pays se dote d’une équipe spéciale  nationale pour l’atténuation du changement climatique ; que l’UNESCO soit invitée à agir sans attendre pour faire de la  plate-forme intersectorielle sur le changement climatique un instrument prioritaire et la doter de ressources budgétaires.  La Commission a ensuite recommandé à la Conférence générale d’adopter les deux résolutions sur l’UNESCO et  l’action mondiale pour faire face au changement climatique.
37.21 Monsieur le Président, Mesdames, Messieurs, j’en arrive à la conclusion de mon rapport oral. J’espère avoir  réussi à récapituler l’essentiel de nos riches débats de la semaine passée et à mettre en lumière les orientations fournies  par cette Commission pour les programmes relatifs aux sciences exactes et naturelles. Je réitère une fois de plus mes  remerciements à mes collègues du bureau, au Rapporteur, M. El-Zahaby, ainsi qu’à la Secrétaire de la Commission,  Mme Meriem Bouamrane, et à son équipe. Je vous remercie de votre attention.
38.1 The President:   Je vous remercie, Monsieur Anguelov, de votre déclaration. I take this opportunity also to congratulate you and  the members of the Commission for the excellent work accomplished. But in particular, my special thanks go to you, Sir,  for the distinguished manner in which you chaired the Commission, allowing you to reach some very effective  conclusions.
38.2 Dear colleagues, are there any comments you would like to make about this document 35 C/72? If not, may I  then assume that the plenary wishes to take note of the report of the Natural Sciences Commission and approves the  draft resolutions contained therein, subject to the decisions that the Conference may take on budgetary issues when  adopting the Appropriation Resolution for 2010-2011? It is so decided. Thank you very much.
38.3 Let me once again, dear colleagues, express my deep appreciation to the Chairpersons of the ED, CI and SC  Commissions for their expert guidance of the debate on the items under their charge. We have now come, dear  colleagues, to the end of our sixteenth plenary session. We will resume our review of reports tomorrow morning,  beginning promptly at 10 a.m. with the report of the Social and Human Sciences Commission and the Culture  Commission.  The meeting rose at 6.30 p.m.  La séance est levée à 18 h 30  Se levanta la sesión a las 18.30  Заседание закрывается в 18.30  א ٦,٣٠א 会议于 18 时 30 分结束