1. The President:   Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Welcome to the eleventh plenary meeting of the General Conference.  This is the last meeting dedicated to national statements this year, and after we hear the 24 speakers listed for this  morning, the General Conference will examine item 9.1, “Request for the admission of Palestine to UNESCO”. Since we  have a full schedule this morning, I propose we start immediately with our first speaker. As usual, Member States will  have six minutes to deliver their speeches while observers will have three minutes. Ladies and gentlemen, I now have  the honour to call on the Minister of Foreign Affairs of Serbia, His Excellency Mr Vuk Jeremić, who will be our first  speaker this morning. The floor is yours, Sir. Good morning.
2.1 Mr Jeremić (Serbia):  Good morning, Your Excellencies, ladies and gentlemen. It is an honour to address the 36th session of  UNESCO’s General Conference and I congratulate Ambassador Katalin Bogyay of Hungary on being elected as  President.
2.2 The Republic of Serbia is the largest successor to Yugoslavia – a co-founder of UNESCO and of the Non- Aligned Movement. In the twenty-first century, my country remains fully committed to an agenda of solidarity, cooperation  and mutual assistance with the developing world, especially in the field of education. To that end, we are expanding our  “World in Serbia” Scholarship Fund, ensuring that thousands of young people from close to 100 nations will be able to  study at the University of Belgrade in the following years. Serbia is also offering the expertise of its specialists in order to  help enhance food production and increase crop yields around the world – priority areas for both UNESCO and the  African Union. Lastly, we engage with developing countries on minimizing the impact on climate change through  UNESCO’s International Hydrological Programme (IHP), and have proposed to establish a category 2 centre for water,  sustainable development and adaptation to climate change. This would enable our engineers and scientists to contribute  tangibly to bettering water conditions in our own region, but also throughout the developing world. In addition to actively  supporting UNESCO’s two priorities, namely Global Priority Africa and Global Priority Gender Equality, Serbia will  increase its efforts to safeguard at-risk heritage across the planet. We are strongly committed to raising global  awareness about this issue. It affects us most directly in our southern province of Kosovo which has been under United  Nations administration since June 1999. The territory is home to four sites on UNESCO’s List of World Heritage in  Danger, and Serbia is the State Party responsible for their protection. In post-conflict environments, honouring  everyone’s identity is a prerequisite for reconciliation, just as excluding or negating it makes it impossible for it to succeed.  Unfortunately, some mistakenly believe such an approach will help confirm their political choices. But the only result has  been to make Serbia the target of a systemic identity theft. This travesty must not be allowed to stand. Everyone knows  that Serbs and Albanians disagree about Kosovo’s final status. But I want to be very clear: UNESCO is not the forum for  airing political disagreements, directly or through proxies. In this Organization, we are supposed to protect and nurture  cultural identities, not be complicit in politicized attempts to craft new ones. The holy sites of the Serbian Orthodox  Church cannot belong to the so-called ‘Republic of Kosovo’. Our bond with those sacred places is unquestionable and  unbreakable. As an indivisible whole, they form the very essence of our identity, and represent the heart and soul of our  nation and our faith. Ladies and gentlemen, the President of Serbia, Boris Tadić, recently hosted the 9th UNESCO  Summit of the Heads of State of South-East Europe. It took place at the Roman archaeological site of Viminacium,  known as the Pompeii of the Balkans. The large-scale rediscovery of Viminacium at the dawn of the twenty-first century  stands as a powerful symbol of what the Balkans represent - a place where bridges across cultures are built and  cherished.
2.3 It is with this in mind that the Republic of Serbia, a multicultural and multiconfessional democracy, has presented  its candidacy for a seat on the UNESCO World Heritage Committee. Our election would enhance our ability to help  developing countries modernize their protection policies, through expert training programmes in fields such as  conservation and restoration. Serbia would forcefully advocate for a credible, representative and balanced World  Heritage List, thus further strengthening the integrity of this Organization. This would also facilitate our efforts to share  best practices and experiences on the issue of reconciliation, to the benefit of a number of post-conflict areas around the  globe. On behalf of the Republic of Serbia, allow me to respectfully ask the Member States to support our candidacy for  a seat on the World Heritage Committee. In conclusion, I would like to underline that we remain steadfastly committed to  responsible global citizenship, and that we shall continue to work as hard as we can to promote the noble aims and  programmes of this Organization. Serbia will keep acting in accordance with the vision encapsulated so well in the  preamble of the UNESCO Constitution and its solemn affirmation “that the wide diffusion of culture, and the education of  humanity for justice and liberty and peace are indispensable to the dignity of man, and constitute a sacred duty which all  the nations must fulfil in a spirit of mutual assistance and concern”. Thank you for your attention.
3. The President:   Thank you very much Excellency, for your speech. And now I would like to give the floor to the Minister of  Culture and Tourism of Greece, His Excellency Mr Pavlos Geroulanos. The floor is yours, Sir.
4.1 Mr Geroulanos (Greece):  Madam President of the General Conference, Madam Chair of the Executive Board, Madam Director-General,  distinguished delegates, in a world of finite resources we have been creating activities and habits of unlimited  requirements. We are producing deficits in a world that should have enough for all of us. And we are endangering the  very resources that have traditionally shaped our lives. Historically, we have referred to nature and culture for answers  but now we are consuming them with dizzying speed. This global crisis we are facing – we are all facing – makes us  review our stand against our needs and our wants. It is forcing us to review our way of life. And as such, this crisis we  are facing is not simply economic; it is a crisis of values. Today we are called upon to review the values we share in  building the future of our world. Among others, our world today is in need of harmony and measure – two of the defining  values of humanism, and two values my country has offered to the world. The civilization that placed humans at the  centre of its thought chose harmony and measure as foundations for its intellectual as well as its material development.  Balance was a necessary prerequisite for all forms of progress and balance is what is desperately needed today. These  were not values for the fainthearted. Harmony, in the Greek tradition, was the daughter of the God of War and the  Goddess of Beauty. The power and appeal of Harmony defined the way my ancestors looked at their world and the way  they built it. These are the kinds of powerful values that will shape our future if we are to have one.
4.2 Although ironic, it is not extraordinary that my country is in the eye of the storm that is facing Europe and the  world as a whole. The very nation that gave birth to the values that can help define our way out of the global situation we  are in is the very nation that suffered most from their disownment. Western-style consumerism did not sit well with us;  probably because we did not allow the time to introduce new habits to our traditional way of life. So today we are going  through a painful process of thinking through what it is we value; what we will keep from our recent past and what we will  leave behind. As Greeks, we are called upon to redefine the values that will shape our future, the values upon which we  will rebuild a dynamic and productive society. The importance and nature of our development, of our educational system,  of work as well as leisure, will have to be reconstructed using deeply Greek values in order to make them our own and in  order to make them sustainable. And that is why culture will play a defining role in the decisions we make about our  future. Culture will not only define the path to our future but also our way of life once we get there. This is a quest of  immense value to us but also to the world as a whole. The path we choose out of the situation will contribute to the global  dialogue around how the world will get out of its own. The way we review and utilize concepts like freedom and  democracy, the way we reconstruct our institutions and social structures, the way we share pain and redistribute wealth,  the way we reintroduce values into our collective way of life will be defining to us and valuable to everybody else. This is  why our contribution within global structures such as UNESCO is of value at this time. As the caretaker of world  civilization, UNESCO can preserve and transfer knowledge and experience, help create a new collective and inspire  global values. We share in the Director-General’s view that this great Organization’s contribution to the dialogue of  civilizations is of vital importance if we are to share in each other’s resources and resourcefulness. As a nation, a culture  and a civilization, Greece can contribute one source of solutions, unique, but not solitary. And UNESCO is the conductor  of all those who have the will and the power to contribute. We want to share in this effort. As a nation and as a civilization,  we have always respected those who surround us and we constantly adopt in our tradition the best that the world has to  offer. The real power of who we are has historically sprung from the esteem with which we treat others.
4.3 As we look into the future it is becoming more apparent that we are tied together as one. And as this becomes a  new reality, global problems will inspire global solutions. Solutions that will utilize the best this world has to offer. This is  an organization that can help and we want to actively contribute to it. Thank you.
5. The President:   Thank you very much, Excellency, for your statement. And now I give the floor to the Minister of Training and  Skills of Ireland. Your Excellency Mr Ciarán Cannon, the floor is yours.
6.1 Mr Cannon (Ireland):   Madam President, Director-General, Excellencies, ladies and gentlemen, good morning to you all. The United  Nations Secretary-General, Ban Ki-moon, in his address to last year’s State of the Planet Conference, noted that, and I  quote, “Of all the things I have seen, two are crystal clear: we live in a rapidly changing world … and we live in an ever  more interconnected world”. The problems we face in this interconnected and fast-changing world – from the economic  crisis to climate change – demand global responses. The guiding principle of UNESCO has always been that peace,  prosperity and progress must rely on our “intellectual and moral solidarity” and on the “wide diffusion of culture and the  education of humanity for justice, liberty and peace”. This mandate – by its nature, global in orientation – remains as  valid now as it was over 60 years ago when the Organization was founded. As a minister for education, I most closely  associate with UNESCO’s work in the area of education. Without a doubt, we live in an age of austerity, when we must  make every single cent of our taxpayers’ money go as far as possible. But there can be no denial of the value of  continued investment in education. To quote Benjamin Franklin: “An investment in knowledge always pays the best  interest”. UNESCO, through the education for all (EFA) framework, plays a crucial role in keeping this issue at the top of  the global agenda. The challenges are immense. Tens of millions of children around the world have no access to basic  primary education, and there is serious concern about deterioration in the quality of education being provided at all levels.  We must all play our part. Ireland will continue to focus on education in its development programmes, supporting our  partner countries to meet the challenge of providing quality education for many of the millions of children who are still out  of school.
6.2 Ireland also remains committed to UNESCO’s other areas of work. We wish to add our strong support to the  Global Geoparks Network. This is an excellent initiative which celebrates our Earth heritage but does so in an innovative  way that promotes sustainable economic development among the communities that live in these very, very special  places. Ireland is very grateful for the support UNESCO has given Geoparks over the last eleven years, especially to our  three members of the Global Geoparks Network. We will be happy to continue our strong links with the Division of
290  Ecological and Earth Sciences in order to help explore possibilities for the future strengthening of the relationship  between UNESCO and the Global Geoparks Network.
6.3 We continue to value the significant role played by the World Heritage Convention in identifying and  safeguarding both natural and cultural heritage on a global scale for present and future generations to enjoy. We are  committed to implementing the objectives of the Convention and the continued protection and preservation of our  inscribed properties and properties on our Tentative List. We acknowledge the forum the Convention provides to support  the sharing of expert knowledge and networking opportunities to enhance cooperation among nations in the common  goal of heritage protection and conservation. In addition to the three properties on the island of Ireland, our Tentative List  of potential nominees to the World Heritage List was submitted to the World Heritage Committee in 2010. This new list  displays a diverse and interesting array of Irish culture and Irish heritage. We will use this list as the framework for  progressing potential nominations from Ireland to the World Heritage List. We have also commenced work on a new  World Heritage Site Management Plan for the Archaeological Ensemble of the Bend of the Boyne involving national and  local stakeholders.
6.4 Ireland continues to support efforts to promote the ratification of the Convention on the Protection and Promotion  of the Diversity of Cultural Expressions internationally and will work with our European Union colleagues and the  European Commission to advance its implementation.
6.5 I started my contribution with the words of the United Nations Secretary-General. I want to conclude by reflecting  on his comments to a gathering of young people in New York earlier this year when he said that, and I quote,  “sustainable development for all is the defining issue of our time”. This Organization plays a crucial role in addressing  these issues. With that in mind, Ireland is pleased to support the work of ECO-UNESCO, which allows young people to  learn about their environment, monitor air and water pollution, engage in habitat conservation, learn teamwork and  leadership skills, and study the ecology of their local communities. It is also why I am pleased that young people in  Ireland were able to participate in the seventh UNESCO Youth Forum, the theme of which was the “How Youth Drive  Change”. Ireland commends UNESCO for its work and looks forward to future cooperation on areas of great importance.
7. The President:  Thank you very much for your statement, Your Excellency. And now I would like to give the floor to the Minister  of Science and Innovation of Spain, Her Excellency Ms Cristina Garmendia Mendizábal. The floor is yours.
(8.1) Ms Garmendia Mendizábal (Spain) (translation from the Spanish):   Distinguished President of the General Conference, Chair of the Executive Board, distinguished Director-General,  authorities, ladies and gentlemen, it is an honour to represent Spain in this General Conference and I would like to begin by  welcoming South Sudan, Curaçao and Sint Maarten to this forum. I would like to inform you that Spain has endeavoured to  collaborate with the whole of the European Union on the question of Palestine’s application for admission into UNESCO as a  Member State. Spain would have preferred that voting take place after clarification of the Palestine initiatives at the United  Nations.
(8.2) Ladies and gentlemen, the world is undergoing a period of change and uncertainty, where the economic situation is  threatening citizens’ present and future well-being. In a context of scarce resources, we must formulate plans and budgets on  the principle that it is not always possible to spend more, but we can always make better use of available funds. With the need  to prioritize and focus our activities, Spain has been determined to support science and technology, and not to subject  research and development policies to the strict budgetary adjustment that we have imposed on the country in order to meet  our deficit targets. In this way, we hope to strengthen our position among the scientific powers of the world, currently ranking  ninth internationally, a position that has taken us decades to attain. We are investing in science to make progress in our  economy and culture as well as to strengthen our commitment to human development beyond our borders. This commitment  has been enshrined in the new science, technology and innovation law, which incorporates scientific cooperation in  development as a merit in scientists’ curriculum vitae and guarantees consistency among our national plans for research and  development and the guidelines for Spanish cooperation. We are acting according to our principles, but also because we know  that our approach is backed by international partners and, most of all, by UNESCO.
(8.3) Allow me now to speak about education, another of our priorities in these times of crisis and a crucial objective in  UNESCO’s work. Without quality education in its four dimensions - knowing how to learn, to do, to be and to live in society –  human progress is quite simply impossible. We would like to thank UNESCO for its steady work in improving its efficiency in  promoting education and, especially, improving coordination of the education for all (EFA) programme. We also congratulate  the Director-General for extending the programme beyond 2015. We are especially satisfied with the growing impact of  UNESCO’s work in promoting literacy, vocational training, teacher training and public policy improvement. Lastly, we support  the two global priorities identified by UNESCO: gender-sensitive education policies and increased efforts in Africa.
(8.4) I will now touch upon our commitment alongside UNESCO regarding culture. Spain has 43 sites on the World  Heritage List and has established itself as a leading example in heritage management. This would not have been possible  without the dedication of public administration, but it is above all the joint achievement of Spanish society, which proudly  protects and defends its cultural heritage. To deepen this general sentiment, Spain will celebrate on 16 November each year,  international world heritage day, inspired by the forthcoming 40th anniversary celebration of the World Heritage Convention. In  addition, the process for the establishment of a category 2 centre under the auspices of UNESCO is reaching completion. This  initiative seeks to strengthen the implementation of the Convention in heritage management and establish a centre of  reference in the country for study and research on cave paintings. I would like to conclude by mentioning that Spain is  spearheading the “World Radio Day” project, approved by the Executive Board in October, and is continuing work on the “films  for humanity” project. Additionally, on Spain’s behalf, I would like to extend an invitation to all delegations to the inauguration of  the cycle of conferences on the crossroads between culture, science and communication in the digital era on 14 November,  which will be attended by the Director-General of UNESCO and Spain’s Minister of Culture. Thank you very much.
9. The President:  Thank you very much, Excellency, for your statement. And now I would like to give the floor to the Ambassador  of Mexico and Secretary General of the Mexican National Commission for Cooperation with UNESCO, His Excellency  Mr Mario Chacón. The floor is yours, Sir.
(10.1) Mr Chacón (Mexico) (translation from the Spanish):   Distinguished members of the General Conference, it is still a great challenge to make education, science and  culture accessible to all human beings. Sixty-six years after UNESCO was founded, there are still 796 million illiterate people  in the world, two thirds of whom are women, and 69 million children are not attending primary school. In this context, my  country will celebrate the ninetieth anniversary of the Secretariat of Public Education, founded in 1921 by José Vasconcelos  and his Secretary at the time, who later went on to become Secretary of Public Education and Director-General of UNESCO,  Jaime Torres Bodet. Its establishment was based on the ideal of education for all Mexicans as a key and a cornerstone for  progress and democracy in our nation, an ideal that is kept alive today in every school and in every classroom.
(10.2) Alonso Lujambio, the Secretary of Public Education recently said, “education is a space for equity, regardless of  ethnicity, gender, religious beliefs, political persuasion or social background. Education is the key to democracy and social  cohesion, the great equalizer of living conditions and the lynchpin for peace between us”. The National Education system  currently has 34 million students, 25 million of whom are in the nine grades of basic education. Mexico can confirm with great  satisfaction that it has achieved universal primary education coverage and gender equality for 3 to 18 year-old students.  Similarly, at 96%, we are close to achieving universal education coverage for 12 to 15 year-old children. We have managed to  reduce the overall illiteracy rate to 6.9% including people above 15 years of age. The National Institute for Adult Education  (INEA) was awarded one of the two UNESCO King Sejong Literacy Prizes last September in New Delhi for its bilingual literacy  programmes, during an E-9 meeting.
(10.3) In collaboration with UNESCO’s Social and Human Sciences Sector, on 17 and 18 August 2011 the international  seminar “Rethinking Development: Ethics and Social Inclusion” was held in Mexico City, where we highlighted the importance  of identity and self-determination for communities, democratic values, environmental sustainability and inclusion. For Mexico,  education is not only a matter of quantitative indicators, but also and especially, qualitative indicators. The Alliance for Quality  of Education, launched by President Calderón, is making headway with historical changes in the national education system,  with the support of parents and society. For the fourth consecutive year we are holding competitive exams that are open and  transparent, through which a little over 113,000 teachers will fill the vacancies in basic education. This year we established the  Universal Evaluation of Teachers and Principals in basic education, both public and private. We are also encouraging reading,  by means of action inside and outside of school, and we have enhanced the Safe School Programme, training almost 545,000  teachers to prevent addictions in children.
(10.4) UNESCO should cater to the world’s poorest and most marginalized in terms of basic human rights. To achieve this,  its most important asset is not just its budget, but rather its own knowledge, and above all, the knowledge and experience of its  Member States. Middle-income countries like Mexico have a valuable heritage of institutions and policies that should be  involved more clearly in the international cooperation led by UNESCO. The main asset we can bring to the Organization is our  experience in issues such as early and pre-school education, adult literacy provision, special education, indigenous and
293  intercultural bilingual education, youth and adult education, statistics and quality assessment of education, gender equality  education, educational infrastructure, national systems of scientific investigation and conservation of cultural and intangible  heritage.
(10.5) Ladies and gentlemen, Mexico emphasizes its commitment to working with UNESCO and firmly supports the  Director-General in her efforts to restructure and reform. My country fully supports Ms Bokova’s message to improve  management and reform the Organization, especially the Social and Human Sciences Sector, as well as the structure and  coordination of the field offices. We agree that the initiatives being carried out by UNESCO at local, regional and global levels  will help us see that our similarities are stronger than our differences. Mexico is a country proud of the age-old wealth of its  culture; we have the privilege and the responsibility of having 31 sites inscribed on the World Heritage List and six elements on  the Representative List of the Intangible Cultural Heritage of Humanity. Consequently, we are concerned to see that the  trafficking of cultural property is increasing, especially for archaeological items. Mexico is grateful to the Director-General for  her efforts to convene a meeting in June 2012 of States Parties to the 1970 Convention.
(10.6) Madam President, Mexico is a candidate for election to the Executive Board of UNESCO. We have applied because  we would like to contribute to achieving the Organization’s objectives, and support the reform process that we have started,  especially with the help of feedback from the Independent External Evaluation. If elected, my country commits to working with  all the Members in a spirit of dialogue, cooperation and mutual respect. Thank you very much.
11. The President:  Thank you very much. And now I would like to give the floor to the Minister of Education of Slovenia, His  Excellency Mr Igor Lukšič. The floor is yours, Sir.
12.1 Mr Lukšič (Slovenia):  Madam President, Your Excellency, ladies and gentlemen, this 36th session of the General Conference is  extremely important since the programme and the budget that will be adopted are the last in the current Medium-Term  Strategy period. This session is also marked by the first half of the mandate of the Director-General and the final stage of  the reform and reorganization process in UNESCO. We in Slovenia have followed this process closely and have also  taken part in some reviews, giving us the opportunity to express our views and observations. Nevertheless, I would like  to pinpoint some of the positions my country has already expressed on other occasions.
12.2 First, we believe that UNESCO should continue to strengthen its own monitoring mechanism and establish a  simple and coherent system of follow-up to different programmes and activities; second, we support the efforts of the  Director-General to complete the reforms and reorganization and re-start activities in all fields; and third, much has been  said in the past years about the need to strengthen the relevance and visibility of UNESCO. We do appreciate the efforts  of the Director-General to regain the relevance of the Organization as a global actor in its fields of competence, and  progress made towards making UNESCO’s contribution to achieving the Millennium Development Goals (MDGs) and in  post-conflict and post-disaster situations more visible. Its visibility and relevance in the Member States, however, still  remains a major challenge. Being entirely aware of the fact that UNESCO is not a funding Organization, we cannot but  emphasize the importance of the Participation Programme; this programme is essential not only for the underdeveloped  countries, but also for many others, since it enables National Commissions and NGOs to develop programmes and  activities that may not always be the priority of the respective countries, but are the priorities of UNESCO. We support  the proposals for the programme not only to maintain but to increase its budget.
12.3 Education should develop more progressively and more attention should be given to vocational training and  education, early childhood education, culture in education and the Associated Schools Project (ASP). ASP is one of  UNESCO’s flagship projects and we would like to recommend that more financial and human resources be allocated to  the international coordination of the ASP Network.
12.4 The natural sciences programme encompasses a variety of activities that are appreciated not only among the  experts, but also within the general public. Closer association in UNESCO with the Global Geoparks Network would bring  added value to both, and would complement the existing intergovernmental programmes like the Programme on Man  and Biosphere (MAB), Earth Sciences, the International Hydrological Programme (IHP) and the Intergovernmental  Oceanographic Commission (IOC). Social and human sciences, in a way, represent the spirit of UNESCO. Ethics in  science, bioethics and response to social change and transformation are instrumental in enhancing UNESCO’s role in  the global community. We would like to commend the activities in the fields of human rights and philosophy, among them  World Philosophy Day.
12.5 Ljubljana, the capital of Slovenia, was awarded the title of World Book Capital in 2010 and in April this year  handed the title over to Buenos Aires. This was, of course, a unique experience, but also an opportunity to contribute to  the concept of the project by adding a regional dimension – in cooperation with the UNESCO Office in Venice, we  organized a regional forum for South-East Europe on books, reading and translation, three important aspects of the  dialogue among cultures. Regarding the cultural heritage, my delegation expresses our support to the upstream process  for a more credible World Heritage List; Slovenia is actively participating in the process with a pilot project. On the basis  of our experience in organizing the First South-East Europe World Heritage Youth Forum, we would recommend heritage  education for young people as one of the priorities for the implementation of the Convention for the Safeguarding of the  Intangible Cultural Heritage. In information and communication the ultimate key words are accessibility and press  freedom and my delegation fully supports UNESCO’s activities in this field.
12.6 When opting for zero nominal growth, we are aware of the fact that we are putting the Secretariat in a very  difficult situation. Approving no additional funds for the next biennium, while at the same time requesting the  strengthening of existing programmes and even introducing new ones, we are – yet again - sending UNESCO on an  impossible mission: to work more with fewer resources. It is up to us to make this mission possible. I strongly wish that  UNESCO will continue to perform its role in the future and that this General Conference will again be a meeting place of
294  different cultures, systems and beliefs with one common goal: to build the defences of peace in the minds of men and  women, which can only be achieved by maintaining the humanist perspective and perception of ourselves and the world  around us. Thank you.
13. The President:  Thank you very much Your Excellency. Now I would like to give the floor to the Permanent Delegate of Rwanda  to UNESCO, His Excellency Mr Jacques Kabale. The floor is yours, Sir.
14.1 M. Kabale (Rwanda) :  Excellence, Madame la Présidente de la Conférence générale, Excellence, Madame la Présidente du Conseil  exécutif, Excellence, Madame la Directrice générale, distingués délégués, Mesdames et Messieurs, je joins ma voix à  celle des intervenants qui m’ont précédé pour vous féliciter, Madame la Présidente, et féliciter tous les membres du  Bureau, pour votre brillante élection à cette haute et prestigieuse fonction. Je vous souhaite plein succès à la présidence  de cette 36e session de la Conférence générale. Je suis très heureux de vous transmettre également les salutations les  plus chaleureuses du peuple et du Gouvernement du Rwanda. Je voudrais en outre remercier la Directrice générale et le  Secrétariat pour la qualité de la préparation et de l'organisation de cette session.
14.2 Madame la Présidente, le Rwanda apprécie grandement l’appui que l’UNESCO n’a cessé de lui accorder au fil  des années, et plus particulièrement au lendemain du génocide perpétré contre les Tutsis en 1994. Grâce au soutien de  l’Organisation, le Rwanda a pu remettre sur pied son système éducatif, détruit pendant le génocide et la guerre. En  souscrivant aux Objectifs du Millénaire pour le développement, le Rwanda a fait siennes toutes les recommandations de  l’Organisation en matière d’accès à une éducation équitable et de qualité, de promotion de la culture de la paix, d’égalité  entre les sexes, de protection de l’environnement pour un développement durable, etc.
14.3 Madame la Présidente, le Gouvernement du Rwanda a fait de l’éducation une priorité absolue. Il s’est engagé à  promouvoir une éducation universelle et de qualité, qui occupait déjà une place importante dans sa Vision 2020.  L’éducation de base gratuite et obligatoire de neuf ans sera étendue à 12 ans d’ici 2017.
14.4 Madame la Présidente, le Rwanda accorde une place importante aux nouvelles technologies de l’information et  de la communication. À l’horizon 2020, il entend être une société basée sur la connaissance grâce aux nouvelles  technologies. Rappelons que le Président de la République du Rwanda, M. Paul Kagame, copréside avec M. Carlos  Slim, grand homme d’affaires mexicain, une initiative mondiale de haute technologie appelée « Broadband  Commission » ou Commission « Le large bande au service du développement numérique ». Cette commission mondiale  a été créée à l’initiative de M. Hamadoun Touré, Secrétaire général de l’Union internationale des télécommunications, et  de Mme Irina Bokova, Directrice générale de l’UNESCO.
14.5 Dans cette optique, et aux fins d’atteindre les Objectifs du Millénaire pour le développement, le Rwanda est en  train de se doter d’une infrastructure favorisant l’accès aux technologies de l’information. Toutes les villes rwandaises  sont aujourd’hui raccordées à la fibre optique. Les écoles des milieux ruraux non connectés au réseau électrique  national ont été équipées de technologies utilisant des sources d'énergie renouvelables – essentiellement l’énergie  solaire et le biogaz. Avec le programme « One Laptop Per Child (OLPC) », des ordinateurs portables sont distribués aux  élèves des écoles primaires, tant rurales qu’urbaines, depuis 2009. Des progrès impressionnants ont également été  réalisés en matière d’enseignement supérieur. En l’espace d’une quinzaine d’années, le Rwanda s’est doté de
28 universités et établissements d’enseignement supérieur publics et privés.
14.6 Madame la Présidente, il ne peut y avoir de développement durable sans paix, ni de paix durable sans une  bonne gouvernance. Aussi le Rwanda s’est-il préoccupé en priorité de mettre sur pied des mécanismes de bonne  gouvernance, de paix et de sécurité intérieure et extérieure, notamment en participant à des missions de maintien de la  paix, en préservant et en consolidant de bonnes relations avec les autres pays et en s’efforçant de promouvoir l'unité et  la réconciliation entre les Rwandais.
14.7 Permettez-moi une nouvelle fois, Madame la Présidente, de vous féliciter et de vous exprimer tout l’appui du  Rwanda pour vos initiatives, réformes et recommandations. Nous ne doutons pas un seul instant que leur mise en  œuvre permettra à notre Organisation d’être encore plus forte, plus proche des réalités des pays membres. Nous  réitérons enfin notre souhait de voir l’UNESCO user de son pouvoir et de ses moyens afin de partager les bonnes  pratiques issues de l’expérience et de l’expertise des États membres. Madame la Présidente, je vous souhaite plein  succès pour la 36e session de la Conférence générale. Je vous remercie.
15. The President:  Thank you very much. And I would like to give the floor now to the Minister of Education of Argentina, His  Excellency Mr Alberto Estanislao Sileoni. The floor is yours, Sir.
(16.1) Mr Sileoni (Argentina) (translation from the Spanish):   Madam President, Madam Director-General, dear delegates, good day to you all. It is an honour for me, as the  representative of the Government of the Argentine Republic to address you at this 36th session of the General Conference of  UNESCO. We would like to reaffirm the commitment of our country to the ideals and objectives of the Organization, and we  show this by way of public policies aiming to build a fairer society. Furthermore, Argentina, like almost everyone, supports the  existence of a State for the Palestinian people. This Conference is being held at a time when the global crisis is affecting many  nations and highlighting the need to reassert on the tenets of equality, equity and enhancement of the dignity of all individuals  and peoples. We are not surprised at the indignant movement that is spreading across the world, because our country went  through similar trials some years ago, following policies that generated an excessive concentration of wealth and a dramatic  decline in the country’s productive apparatus. We managed to turn the situation around with decisions made in the last eight  years in favour of a political project that connects education, production and labour.
(16.2) In 2003, when Dr Nestor Kirchner became President, he clearly acknowledged the changes by stating that “there is  no bigger factor for human cohesion and development that favours inclusion than access to education”. Our President, Cristina  Fernández de Kirchner further has enhanced progress by considering education to be an inalienable right of all peoples. This  is established through our national law, enacted in 2005, which states that education and knowledge are a public good and a  personal and social right, guaranteed by the State. With these convictions, we have started to develop a set of actions that  have made it possible for us to offer a working education system today that is continuously growing. We have made progress  in allocating resources for education, having invested 6.4% of the gross domestic product (GDP) and improved the pay and  working conditions of our teachers. More than 1,200 schools were built and the process is ongoing for another 700, with over
45 million books distributed. We have achieved full enrolment for five year-olds, a 25% increase in schooling for four year-olds,  consolidated primary education for all and schooling for over 80% of adolescents in secondary education. We have  established nine new public universities and a scholarship programme that encourages enrolment into priority disciplines for  the strategic development of the country. Also, with the establishment of the Ministry of Science, Technology and Productive  Innovation we have consolidated the model of a country that ties research to production. Thanks to these policies, more than
800 scientists have returned to Argentina, confirming their faith in science in their homeland. Investment in technical education  has led to schools being equipped and modernized and to a 12% increase in enrolment. Through specific programmes, we
296  have reduced illiteracy to 1.9%. We have two television channels for children and young adults, whose quality makes the  Argentinian society proud. The programme Conectar Igualdad (Connecting Equality) enables schools to become more  connected and 6,600,000 netbooks have been distributed to secondary school students, their teachers and children with  disabilities. However, these achievements do not stop us from analysing our deficits: we must work even harder as far as early  childhood is concerned, include adolescents who are out of school and improve learning for all students. Thus, together with  the other Latin American countries, we have set ourselves challenges for education goals for the year 2021.
(16.3) Ladies and gentlemen, Argentina acknowledges and thanks UNESCO for supporting our policies and for its work in  education throughout the world. Under its auspices, we have created an international centre dedicated to the memory,  promotion and defence of human rights, which we have placed, as a testament to humanity, in the same place as a centre that  was responsible for the disappearance of people during the last military dictatorship. We are working with the UNESCO  International Institute for Educational Planning (IIEP), based in Buenos Aires, and promoting UNESCO’s work through the  debt-for-education swap. The Argentinian people also express thanks for the awarding of the Félix Houphouët-Boigny Peace  Prize to the Grandmothers of the Plaza de Mayo.
(16.4) We believe that it is possible to find solutions to this world crisis and that today UNESCO’s voice must be louder than  ever. The new humanism to which we have been called to adhere by the Director-General should be maintained by the  Organization’s presence in our region, through its offices and institutes.  UNESCO’s voice must urge us to find creative  alternatives to ensure that education for all does not remain a written goal in declarations; we must invest more in education.  The global financial crisis should not stop us from finding mechanisms for investment consistent with the right to education.  This is where UNESCO plays an essential role, through its capacity to campaign for the protection of inclusive policies for  education before international lending agencies. UNESCO’s Constitution declares that it is in the minds of men that the  defences of peace must be constructed. This postulate cannot be maintained through economic measures that cut education,  culture and science budgets. On this occasion, we are called upon to assume the responsibility for defending them. Thank you  very much.
17. The President:  Thank you very much, Your Excellency. I would like to give the floor now to the Minister of Education of Ghana,  Her Excellency Ms Betty Mould-Iddrisu. The floor is yours, Madam.
18.1 Ms Mould-Iddrisu (Ghana):  Madam President of the General Conference, Madam Chair of the Executive Board, Madam Director-General,  Excellencies, distinguished delegates, ladies and gentlemen, it gives me much pleasure to have this opportunity to  address the 36th session of the General Conference of UNESCO for the first time. Allow me, first of all, to convey warm  greetings from the President, His Excellency Professor John Evans Atta-Mills and the good people of Ghana. I must say,  we have observed with admiration the leadership of our present Director-General in her effort to make the impact of  UNESCO felt at the global, regional and national levels. We would therefore like to congratulate Her Excellency Madam  Irina Bokova for the able manner in which she has steered the affairs of UNESCO. The delegation of Ghana to UNESCO  also joins previous speakers in congratulating you, Madam Katalin Bogyay, on your election as President of the 36th  session of the General Conference of UNESCO. Madam President, Ghana commends UNESCO for being at the  forefront of multilateral action in efforts to achieve the education for all (EFA) goals. We further note with satisfaction the  Organization’s preparatory efforts in connection with action beyond the 2015 target.
18.2 Madam President, in order to accelerate progress towards the EFA goals, the Government of Ghana now  commits 30% of the national budget to education in addition to a dedicated fund set up to provide educational facilities in  the country. The Government has also scaled up access to quality basic education through a variety of interventions  including: school feeding in deprived communities; provision of free school uniforms and exercise books for children of  school-going age; an upward adjustment of the Capitation Grant to help reduce the financial burden of education on  parents; and expansion of educational infrastructure with the construction of over 1,200 additional classrooms over a  period of two years. These initiatives have significantly increased enrolment at the basic level of education in Ghana. At  the kindergarten level, for example, enrolment increased from 80.8% in 2006 – 2007 to 98.3% in 2010 – 2011. We  address these issues, Madam President, in our teacher-centred policy and we have a variety of interventions including:  expanding our diploma-awarding colleges; running programmes on early childhood care; establishing the Ghana  Teaching Council; provision of distance learning; provision of e-learning facilities to teachers; and information and  communication technology (ICT)-enhanced and relevant learning by which the Ghana Government has commenced the  implementation of a policy to supply 60,000 computers to basic schools. Madam President, the Ghana delegation notes  with satisfaction UNESCO’s determination to strengthen Member States’ capacity to develop and implement  comprehensive and evidence-based policies for technical and vocational education and training (TVET). Our council is  expanding both the scope and content of TVET to ease unemployment problems facing youth. We are grateful to the  Government of Denmark and the World Bank for their support in this regard.
18.3 Turning now to UNESCO reforms, Madam President, the Government of Ghana notes with concern the ongoing  consultations with respect to the locations of the multisectoral regional offices, particularly for the West Africa sub-region.  Madam President, it is well established that Ghana was the first African country south of the Sahara to have hosted a  UNESCO Regional Centre for Education Research and Information, as far back as 1961. Furthermore, we are currently  hosting one of the largest cluster offices on the continent. We believe, Madam President, that our experience coupled  with the renowned Ghanaian hospitality could be placed at the disposal of the Organization and we therefore consider  Accra as the logical home for the multisectoral Regional Office.
18.4 Madam President, climate change issues have moved from being a mere environmental human tragedy to a  global economic issue. We therefore consider it appropriate for UNESCO to prepare the draft universal declaration of  ethical principles, reinforcing, no doubt, UNESCO’s role as a credible United Nations specialized agency promoting good  environmental governance through education, science and culture. I thank you for your attention.
297  Ms Lacœuilhe (Saint Lucia) takes the Chair.
19. The President:  Thank you, Your Excellency. I would like to now give the floor to His Excellency Mr Theo Zurenuoc, Minister of  Education of Papua New Guinea
20.1 Mr Zurenuoc (Papua New Guinea):  Madam President, Madam Director-General, Your Excellencies, ladies and gentlemen, I bring warm greetings  from the Government and people of Papua New Guinea to you all. Madam President, we join other countries in  congratulating you on your election as President of the 36th session of the General Conference of UNESCO. We trust  that your vast knowledge and experience in similar roles both at international level and in your own country will no doubt  guide this session of the General Conference with success. We also join other distinguished delegates in congratulating  the outgoing President for his strong and coherent guidance in the work of UNESCO in the last two years.
20.2 Madam President, Papua New Guinea and its six million people speak about 800 languages, which is about one  third of the world’s languages, and hence this augments unity amongst diverse cultures. Papua New Guinea accounts for  seven per cent of the world’s biodiversity, with the second largest untempered virgin rainforest and its coral reefs and  atolls that remain mostly untouched by the pressures of modern development. These virgin ecosystems remain habitats  to endemic species of flora and fauna.
20.3 The Government of Papua New Guinea values the work of UNESCO in pursuit of its goal of making humanity  realize that the way forward in the promotion of peace is fundamentally in the minds of men, women and young people.  This is done through education that is appropriate and is conducive to sustainable development. The United Nations  Decade of Education for Sustainable Development provides the overarching framework enabling our government to  provide education to our population not only through funding support but also by a conducive policy framework that  guides the kind and level of education that is needed. Under such a policy, the Government of Papua New Guinea has  made sustainable education its number one development priority. We continue to promote the Dakar framework goals.  The Papua New Guinea Government gives high priority to the education sector in order to accelerate progress towards  education for all by 2015. Papua New Guinea’s universal basic education plan 2010-2019 addresses the key priority  areas of accessibility, retention, quality of education and management in education. In order to realize this vision, our  government promotes an open-access policy, with the provision of free education from elementary up to secondary level  and 75% subsidization of tertiary level starting in 2012. This is certainly a challenging commitment. We desire, however,  to translate the immense national revenue that we have at this time into long-term human assets.
20.4 Madam President, I wish here to thank UNESCO for its noble vision in supporting literacy development initiatives  taken by our government. Equally, I should like to take this opportunity to acknowledge the Government of Japan’s  assistance in promoting literacy and education for sustainable development in Papua New Guinea and the Pacific. Your  leadership role in education for peace and development in the Pacific is specifically noted. The communication  programmes that we have embarked on in partnership with UNESCO must continue because they bring the latest world  standards and innovations to our people, schools and communities that are separated by harsh topography and vast  oceans between islands and atolls.
20.5 Madam President, Papua New Guinea is a State Party to the 2003 UNESCO Convention for the Safeguarding of  the Intangible Cultural Heritage. Our rich, diverse cultural heritage is the source of our strength and nationhood and will  be a laboratory of knowledge for the world. The Government of Papua New Guinea is now in the process of enacting a  law on traditional knowledge and cultural expression to safeguard our vast cultural heritage. Madam President, we  commend UNESCO’s World Heritage Committee for the inscription of the Kuk Early Agricultural Site on the World  Heritage List. In relation to the Kuk site, I must quote from Wikipedia, “Agriculture was independently developed in the  New Guinea Highlands around 7000 B.C. making it one of the few areas of early cultivation by humans in the world.”  These findings on Papua New Guinea’s potential contribute to UNESCO’s mandate in education, science and culture.  Therefore, we call upon UNESCO to help us preserve these cultural treasures.
20.6 Madam President, Papua New Guinea, being the largest island among the Pacific island States, adjoining the  Asia and the Pacific region, plays certain international roles that are critical to peace, security and development in the  region as well as globally. The challenges posed by climate change and regional asylum-seekers are the notable issues.  At this juncture I acknowledge the shared role played by all governments of the Pacific Member States in ensuring that  peace and security is maintained in the region at all times. Furthermore, we thank the governments of China, Japan and  the Czech Republic for providing training opportunities for our national experts over the years under joint fellowship  arrangements with UNESCO.
20.7 Madam President, our government is a global champion and leading voice on world climate change issues and,  on behalf of many small island developing States in the Pacific, I take this opportunity to re-emphasize UNESCO’s role in  ensuring that environmental issues relating to prevention, mitigation and protection confronting the Pacific are given the  necessary attention.
20.8 Madam President, with these remarks, allow me to remind our distinguished delegates that the 17 UNESCO  Member States in the Pacific have not had a voice at the UNESCO Executive Board over the last two years. You will  agree with me that it is unfair to have all 12 seats allocated to the region concentrated in only one part of the region.  Therefore, the Pacific region is presenting Papua New Guinea as its candidate for a seat on the Executive Board and,  colleagues and friends among the Member States, I ask you for your support. Thank you for your attention. May God  Almighty bless you all.
21. The President:  Thank you, Your Excellency. I would like to now give the floor to Her Excellency Ms Angelina Motshekga,  Minister of Basic Education of South Africa.
22.1 Ms Motshekga (South Africa):  Madam President of the General Conference, Madam Director-General, heads of delegation, ladies and  gentlemen, let me, Madam President, join my colleagues who have spoken before me in congratulating you on your  election. It is fitting that we consider ways of strengthening UNESCO’s ability to respond to the pressing educational,  scientific and cultural challenges that face the African continent. In order for UNESCO to do this effectively, it needs to  play a decisive leadership role on key issues of international concern and for the Organization to be steered in a manner  that will make it more effective in its action.
22.2 Regarding climate change, preparations are under way in South Africa to welcome the international community  and all stakeholders to the 17th Conference of the Parties (COP17) to the United Nations Framework Convention on  Climate Change (UNFCCC), at the end of November 2011. The success of the Conference does not depend on South  Africa alone but on the willingness of all Parties to reach an agreement. On the request by Palestinians for admission to  UNESCO, South Africa welcomes and fully supports Palestine’s efforts to seek UNESCO membership. Such  membership is long overdue. We also applaud the Executive Board for recommending to the General Conference that  Palestine be admitted as a full Member of UNESCO. The African Union has expressed its support, and the Non-Aligned  Movement reaffirmed Palestine’s right to become a full member of the multilateral community of States.
22.3 On proposals by Member States concerning the celebration of anniversaries in 2012-2013 with which UNESCO  could be associated, my delegation has proposed the celebration of the 50th anniversaries of the Livonia Trial, which led  to the incarceration of former President Mandela, and of the establishment of the Pan-African Women’s Organization  (PAWO). We look to the 36th session of the General Conference to approve the recommendation for UNESCO to  associate itself with these events. On the Draft Programme and Budget, we commend the Director-General on her efforts  to reallocate existing funds towards the substantive work of the Organization. This is, however, not a solution that will  suffice on its own, as the growing demand for UNESCO’s expertise is not compatible with continued demands for zero  growth budgets. We as Member States continue to make demands of UNESCO and yet refuse to provide adequate  resources to implement our demands. This is having a negative impact on the relevance and effectiveness of the  Organization. On the issue of extrabudgetary contributions, South Africa wants to caution against the negative practice of  replacing regular budget funding with extrabudgetary resources. While we appreciate the valuable contribution that  extrabudgetary funds make to the work of the Organization, this practice undermines multilateralism, which is based on  Member States’ ownership of common issues and the means to address them. The continuing tendency to substitute  core funding with extrabudgetary resources and its associated conditions diminishes the relevance of multilateral  organizations and their ability to address issues of common concern. With regard to the independent external evaluation  of UNESCO that was conducted, we continue to support the implementation of its recommendations that are aimed at  making UNESCO more focused, better coordinated and more responsive to the needs of developing Member States.
22.4 Education for all (EFA) has been a flagship UNESCO programme. Access, equality and quality are closely  interlinked goals. We welcome the initiative by the UNESCO Office to look more closely at benchmarking educational  quality. South Africa is proud to have hosted a UNESCO education quality framework meeting on 15-17 August 2011  and we are looking forward to the next event scheduled to take place in the United Arab Emirates. We need to ensure  that there are mechanisms and processes in place that will achieve these goals. UNESCO’s commitment to prioritizing  science for development and gender equality in Africa in its biennial plans will contribute to the development of the  continent and empowerment of women in science. Cooperation with UNESCO can strengthen science, technology and  innovation systems on the continent. South Africa’s bid for the Square Kilometer Array (SKA) is in its advanced stage. In  this regard we require the support of UNESCO in advancing the science and technology agenda in the African region  and on the world stage. Madam President, the endorsement of the international engineering programme by the   Executive Board at its 185th session was a huge step forward for developing Member States in view of the fact that  engineering capabilities are central to social, economic and human development. It is therefore with some  disappointment that my delegation has learned about the downgrading of this programme to an initiative by the Executive  Board and we trust that the Organization’s financial situation will improve and it will revert back to an international  programme.
22.5 The recognition of cultural diversity is critical to UNESCO, as to South Africa. The precious treasure of Africa’s  cultural heritage can be enhanced through support for the African world heritage sites. With a view to meeting Africa’s  water needs the South African Government has approved the hosting of a UNESCO category 2 centre, the “African  Centre for Global Change and Water Resources Research”. It will serve the needs of the entire continent with regard to  climate change and water research and will be hosted at the University of KwaZulu-Natal (UKZN). We firmly believe that  a focused, results-based and development-oriented UNESCO can make a positive practical contribution to Africa in  achieving the education for all goals and for all of our children. I thank you, Madam President.
23. The President:  Thank you, Your Excellency. I would now like to give the floor to His Excellency Mr António Correia e Silva,  Minister of Higher Education, Sciences and Innovation of Cape Verde.
24.1 M. Correia e Silva (Cap-Vert)   (discours prononcé en portugais ; texte français fourni par la délégation) :  Madame la Présidente, Madame la Présidente du Conseil exécutif, Mesdames et Messieurs les Ministres et  chefs de délégation, Madame la Directrice générale, Mesdames et Messieurs, permettez-moi de dire le grand honneur et
299  la joie que j’ai de prendre la parole en tant que Ministre de l’enseignement supérieur, des sciences et de l’innovation et  Président de la Commission nationale cap-verdienne pour l'UNESCO dans cet important forum des Nations Unies. Si,  pour chaque pays, cette organisation est d’une importance cruciale parce qu’elle prend en compte les thématiques de  l’éducation, de la science, de la culture, de la jeunesse et de l’environnement et qu’elle a pour but d’agir dans ces  domaines, il est d’autant plus important de réaliser les objectifs qu’elle s’est fixés pour un petit pays comme le nôtre, le  Cap-Vert étant un archipel dépourvu de ressources naturelles. Du fait de sa condition de micro-État situé à la croisée de  deux contraintes – isolement océanique et aridité de la zone sahélienne – le Cap-Vert a, dans la construction de son  projet collectif, placé d’immenses espoirs dans l’éducation comme instrument d’émancipation individuelle et collective.
24.2 Depuis l’indépendance nationale, conquise le 5 juillet 1975, les gouvernements successifs de mon pays ont  déployé d’immenses efforts dans le domaine de l’éducation. Ces efforts constants portent leurs fruits : d’un taux initial  d’analphabétisme de l’ordre de 60 %, nous sommes aujourd’hui passés à un taux de 17 %. Nous sommes fiers de  pouvoir dire que 98 % des enfants en âge de recevoir un enseignement de base vont à l’école, sans distinction de genre.  À partir des années 1990, nous avons augmenté l’accès à l’enseignement secondaire ; nous avons construit des lycées  dans l’ensemble des neuf îles habitées de l’archipel et dans toutes les municipalités du pays. Ainsi, le taux de  fréquentation dans l’enseignement secondaire a rapidement évolué : 67 % de nos jeunes en âge de scolarisation  fréquentent un établissement d’enseignement secondaire, alors qu’il y a peu de temps, l’enseignement secondaire avait  à peine une couverture urbaine et n’était accessible qu’à une élite.
24.3 L’option nationale a été de ne pas donner de présence significative à l’enseignement supérieur avec la création  d’universités dans ce siècle, l’idée étant que, sinon, nous aurions épuisé les forces que nous devions concentrer sur la  mise en place d’une éducation de base universelle et intégratrice qui soit véritablement le fondement d’une démocratie  effective. Pour atteindre notre objectif, nous avons lancé en 2001 un système national d’enseignement supérieur. L’État  cap-verdien a mobilisé toute la nation autour de la cause de l’éducation, voie la plus crédible pour réaliser les grands  desseins nationaux que sont le développement économique, la consolidation de la démocratie et le renforcement et la  valorisation de notre spécificité culturelle.
24.4 Madame la Présidente, ce parcours, dont nous sommes fiers, ne nous fait néanmoins pas perdre de vue que les  acquis doivent être consolidés, que les victoires obtenues en matière d’équité d’accès doivent aller de pair avec  l’amélioration des conditions de fréquentation des élèves aux différents niveaux du système d’éducation. En outre, les  progrès quantitatifs ne doivent pas éluder la recherche de nouvelles normes de qualité. Comme dans les premières  phases de notre parcours d’État indépendant, nous appelons aujourd’hui les autres membres de la communauté  internationale à la coopération en faveur de l’éducation pour faire face aux nouveaux défis de l’institutionnalisation, du  renforcement du système d’enseignement à distance, des conditions d’équité dans un contexte de dispersion de  l’archipel et de renforcement de l’enseignement des sciences, des langues, des savoirs liés à la citoyenneté et à la paix.
24.5 Étant un petit pays, notre défi consiste à éduquer notre jeunesse afin d’en faire une génération de citoyens  cosmopolites, multilingues, sensibles aux grandes causes de l’humanité, notamment la paix, et respectueux de la  diversité culturelle, de l’environnement, du savoir, l’accent étant mis en particulier sur les sciences de la terre et les  techniques de gestion de l’eau.
24.6 Madame la Présidente, permettez-moi de faire part à cette éminente Assemblée d’un de nos défis collectifs, à  savoir la mobilisation des savoirs scientifiques pour comprendre et résoudre les problèmes liés au développement du  Cap-Vert. Nous n’avons pas de richesse naturelle significative, nous n’avons pas de marché aux dimensions importantes  et attractives. Nous devons intégrer toute la connaissance scientifique et jeter les bases de la recherche appliquée en  vue de notre émancipation.
24.7 Au fil de notre histoire, nous avons bâti une intéressante synthèse culturelle, fruit de nos divers métissages.  Notre archipel était, comme vous le savez, un lieu de passage, une escale maritime et aérienne sur les diverses routes  transatlantiques. L’une d’entre elles, la plus importante, était la « Route de l’esclave », qui a produit la douloureuse  diaspora africaine sur les pourtours de l’Atlantique. « Cidade Velha », aujourd’hui patrimoine mondial reconnu par  l’UNESCO, en est le témoin. Nous avons ainsi été la première société créole de l’Atlantique, un lieu où, pour la première  fois, ont vécu ensemble de façon durable Africains et Européens. Cette réalité a donné naissance à un nouveau type de  société.
24.8 Je terminerai en renouvelant l’engagement du Cap-Vert en faveur des causes de l’UNESCO et en manifestant  notre foi dans les potentialités positives de la coopération entre les membres de cette immense communauté pour la  promotion de l’éducation, des sciences et de la culture.
25. The President:  Thank you, Your Excellency. I would now like to give the floor to His Excellency Mr Afioga Magele Mauiliu  Magele, Minister of Education, Sport and Culture of Samoa.
26.1 Mr Magele Mauiliu Magele (Samoa):  Madam President, Director-General of UNESCO, Excellencies, ladies and gentlemen. I extend to you all a warm  greeting from the independent State of Samoa, a small island development State in the Pacific. But first of all, I wish to  congratulate you, Madam President, on your election as President of the 36th session of the General Conference of  UNESCO and we wish you well.
26.2 As many of you will know, Samoa is the host country of the UNESCO Office for the Pacific States, which was  established back in 1984. Its creation more than met the aspirations of the original and subsequent countries it was  intended to serve inasmuch as it was the Pacific Office that first developed and promoted the concept of a small States  development paradigm that, in 1987, was reflected in the work plan of the then Department of Educational Planning. In
300  the years that followed, a full-scale small island State programme evolved. Mention must be made however of the  initiative of the Commonwealth Secretariat on this subject since it was they who, at a 1986 meeting in Mauritius of small  States planners in which UNESCO/Apia participated, that made possible the development of conceptual framework from  which the subsequent programme was derived. A compelling one, it highlighted the importance to small island States  (SIS) of three critical planning variables, namely: small economies of scale; isolation from most of the world and from one  another; and heavy dependence on external assistance for development.
26.3 Madam President, no doubt these remarks have been echoed before in this very forum. Indeed, their  programmatic implications were, for the first two decades of the Pacific Office's life, reflected the content and delivery  system of UNESCO's cooperative programme in the Pacific. Through the biennially-organized consultations of Pacific  Island Directors and Secretaries of Education, consultations were timed in such a way as to ensure that their  recommendations would be reflected in the relevant draft C/5 document and proposals were tailor-made to suit the  Pacific context imposed by the interplay of these three variables. Not so long ago, Madam President, when I read reports  of small island developing States (SIDS) meetings and of the outcome of National Commissions, I was given the  impression that we have not progressed much. Today, however, Madam President, in looking through the Programme  and Budget for 2012-2013 (36 C/5), let me now say that I am delighted and Samoa applauds Madam Director-General  and the Secretariat for the overall vision to take the Organization forward into the next biennium and hopefully beyond. I  note in particular, efforts to address the situation of small island States as in UNESCO’s intersectoral platform for SIDS.  Samoa is encouraged that the Pacific Heads of Education Meeting has endorsed a Pacific island framework in education  on climate change for SIDS and hope that it will align with UNESCO’s initiatives. Given this endorsement and our  commitment to the work of UNESCO overall, let me say, Madam President, that it is imperative for us to seek a place for  our Pacific voice in the highest decision-making level of UNESCO, and Samoa respectfully proposes for the support of  the General Conference, Papua New Guinea’s candidature for the Executive Board.
26.4 Madam President, we wish to thank the Director-General for the recent review on the cooperation of UNESCO’s  Secretariat with the National Commissions in 2011. This is a forward-looking move and we are excited about new  reforms and developments to come. Despite budgetary constraints, Samoa would strongly support a proposal to  enhance resources to the Pacific Office, perhaps through an additional field officer in the Apia Office, to focus on  promoting the work of the Pacific National Commissions or a local staff to the National Commissions. Allow me therefore  at this point, Madam President, to make special mention and commend the hard work of the Assistant Director-General  for External Relations and Cooperation and Public Information (ADG/ERI) and his staff for the positive developments in  support of the National Commissions and the Participation Programme.
26.5 Turning now to programmes Madam President, Samoa is challenged by the everyday demands of meeting  requirements in UNESCO’s fields of competence. By no means an exhaustive agenda: education addresses culture and  languages, sustainable development, gender equity, curriculum and teacher development, our system of examinations  and measurements, sports development, information technology in schools and the challenge of Internet access to name  a few. Culture is reflected in the inclusion of Samoan cultural ethics, values and practices including Christian/spiritual  values in the curriculum and instructive arts and cultural diversity through the Pacific Arts Festival and in-school curricula.  Samoa values the World Cultural Heritage Committee and Convention and to that end, Samoa supports our Pacific  neighbour Palau in its bid for membership of the World Heritage Committee. In communication, Samoa targets the  development of modes of communication. In science we identify strategies to train science and mathematics teachers  given the huge shortage in these areas. It is pleasing to note that UNESCO Pacific Office has started deliberations of  policy dialogue without formal education and looking forward to continual partnership in development of our non-formal  education policy and an education for sustainable development policy.
26.6 Finally, Madam President, education for all. Samoa has recently embarked on a series of educational reforms,  including new primary curriculum, right to education, child’s right to education, ‘fee free’ education, initially at primary  level, increased places for primary school leavers entering secondary schools and in strategies in culture and sport. All  are contributing factors to achieve EFA and all hold huge implications for adequate resources. Madam Chair, Director- General and Secretariat, Samoa requests UNESCO’s solid presence and role in assisting all Member States and SIDS in  particular, to achieve the MDGs, including EFA by 2015, and beyond. I finally express Samoa’s commitment to you,  Director-General, and the work of UNESCO. I thank you Madam President.  Ms Bogyay resumes the Chair.
27. The President:  Thank you very much Your Excellency. I would like to give the floor to the Under Secretary of the Department of  Education of United States of America, Her Excellency Ms Martha Kanter. The floor is yours.
28.1 Ms Kanter (United States of America):  Madam President, fellow delegates, since the General Conference last convened, great things have happened  at UNESCO. UNESCO has taken a central role in the United Nations system. It has strengthened its partnerships with  the private sector that support its work. We have all witnessed the incredible transformations imagined and brought to  fruition by Director-General Bokova and the Secretariat. UNESCO is more important than ever. Just consider some of its  recent accomplishments: in Afghanistan, UNESCO is providing literacy training for the Afghan National Police, making it  a stronger and more effective force for nation-building; the Intergovernmental Oceanographic Commission’s tsunami  warning system helped notify people of the tragic tsunami in Japan earlier this year; in Iraq and Afghanistan, UNESCO is  continuing to help rebuild museums, universities and cultural institutions; in the wake of the revolution in Egypt, UNESCO  immediately engaged youth to consider how to strengthen civic engagement and democracy in their country. These are
301  actions of an Organization that is at the heart of facing global challenges and improving the lives of people all around the  world. The United States recognizes that UNESCO is a critical partner in creating a better future.
28.2 This fall, the United States announced a new contribution to UNESCO’s Holocaust education programme, which  helps to educate the world about this historic tragedy and teach students how to help prevent mass atrocities in their own  societies. We have partnered with Brazil to create a new “Teaching Respect for All” curriculum that will offer students  tools for life in multicultural societies. At this General Conference, we will support the creation of International Jazz Day –  a day that will commemorate this uniquely global art form that is played and enjoyed across cultures, languages and  musical traditions. With our American Goodwill Ambassadors – Herbie Hancock, Forest Whitaker and Esther  Coopersmith – we are working to truly build peace in the minds of both men and women. Two weeks ago, Forest  Whitaker spoke to the UNESCO Youth Forum about conflict resolution and peace-building. The United States  Government committed $500 million to support the development of open education and job-training resources in the  current fiscal year, with $1.5 billion more planned over the next three years. And we are pleased to continue to work with  UNESCO on the development of the open educational resources (OER) policy guidelines, which will be launched  tomorrow. We were proud to host World Press Freedom Day 2011 in Washington, D.C. – a landmark event, which  highlighted the constant struggle of so many journalists to safely, freely and accurately inform the public. This event also  emphasized the growing importance of social media in journalism. The United States is helping to strengthen UNESCO’s  work on gender equality. This May, during Africa Week, Secretary of State Hillary Clinton visited UNESCO for the launch  of the Global Partnership for Girls’ and Women’s Education. This was the first visit of a Secretary of State to UNESCO  and conveys the strong support of my government for this Organization. We are working with UNESCO to build new  partnerships with United States companies and foundations. Procter and Gamble is contributing to girls’ literacy  programming in Senegal, with the sale of every product carrying the UNESCO logo, and many of UNESCO’s materials  will now be available on Apple’s iTunes University. This deep and abiding commitment to a stronger UNESCO is why the  United States is running for re-election to the Executive Board. We are fully committed to UNESCO’s ideals and to  strengthening the Organization because we know that a strong and principled UNESCO benefits both the international  community and the United States.
28.3 Madam President, after describing the United States’ engagement with UNESCO in so many ways, I must  address an issue that this body will be facing later in this session. Delegations will make a decision as to whether to  admit Palestine as a Member. We believe this effort is counterproductive, as the only path to the Palestinian State we all  seek is through direct negotiations. We urge all States to vote with us in support of this institution and against this  premature step.
28.4 At the very first General Conference, United States Senator William Benton said: “…to help make peace: that is  the task of UNESCO. It is the hardest, longest, largest task that men (and women) can undertake”. The task of creating a  more peaceful world is no less important or challenging now than it was 65 years ago. This General Conference is an  opportunity for us to renew our commitment because the world needs a strong UNESCO. Thank you.
29. The President:  Thank you very much. I would like to invite the Permanent Secretary, Ministry of Education and Culture of the  British Virgin Islands, Her Excellency Ms Marcia Potter, to take the floor. The floor is yours.
30.1 Ms Potter (British Virgin Islands):  Madam President of the General Conference, Madam Chair of the Executive Board, Madam Director-General,  Excellencies, distinguished delegates, ladies and gentlemen, I speak this morning on behalf of the Minister of Education  and Culture, the Honourable Andrew Fahie of the British Virgin Islands. I greet you in the name of the Great God of the  Universe and I bring greetings from the Government and people of the British Virgin Islands. It is an honour to be here  today to reaffirm the British Virgin Islands’ commitment to UNESCO’s ideals of attaining the highest standards in  education, science, culture, communication and information. Madam President, before I move forward, let me take this  opportunity to congratulate you on your election as President of the 36th session of the General Conference. I wish you  success as you assume your role with honour and dignity.
30.2 Colleagues, it is wonderful to once again share with all of you some of the developments in education in the  British Virgin Islands. Madam President, like many, we have achieved universal primary and secondary education and  are now focusing on early childhood education, special education and technical and vocational education. We have  successfully embarked on teacher training programmes, where we aim to have all our teachers qualified with a  bachelor’s degree in education by 2020, to have implemented a school information system where all our teachers at the  primary and secondary levels have been given laptop computers, introduced a school feeding programme to ensure  proper nutrition for our children in the fight against obesity and non-communicable diseases (NCDs), and undertaken  curriculum review and revision to make our curriculum more relevant, among other initiatives. Two years ago I shared my  ideas on the continued development of our youth in skill-based professions. I am here again to champion the same  cause and ask that you think about what your respective countries have done in this area that would be beneficial  models for what we are working towards in the British Virgin Islands. We continue to recognize that our territory requires  citizens who are well prepared in academic as well as in technical fields. I am pleased to report that we have an  extensive academic programme in place and are working diligently to make sure that the technical skills, which are high  in demand, are embedded in our education system. Students with an interest and aptitude for work in technical areas  must be given appropriate opportunities.
30.3 Madam President, technical education for us in the British Virgin Island is critical to our development. We  continue to shine the spotlight on the “lifeblood” of our territory. Citizens who work in technical fields are the drivers of  one of our main economic pillars, tourism. Without their technical skills the industry cannot thrive. That is why, for
302  example, we are currently integrating a culinary arts institute into our tertiary level education system to develop a  productive workforce for the industry. We continue to strive to ensure that our technical and vocational apprenticeship  programme is strengthened. Our Ministry of Education continues to raise the level of awareness on the importance of  technical education. For too long there has been a stigma around this much-needed driver of our economy. We  acknowledge that in this rapidly changing world it is the knowledgeable and skilled citizens who will help our respective  economies to thrive and be sustained. While we have developed a technical vocational programme, we however need to  develop a national technical and vocational education policy. We recognize that our provision in terms of technical and  vocational education must meet the needs of students and the world of work. Additionally, we want to target some of our  best students who tend to be attracted only to the professions in medicine, law, accountancy and so forth. Our  government is dedicated to building a territory where all its citizens are provided with opportunities to reach their full  potential. Access to quality education is a high priority area and is the impetus by which we will promote equality and  opportunity for our people so that they can actively participate in and contribute to the sustainable development of our  territory. That is why we are continuously working toward quality education for all (EFA) by 2015, supported by the motto  “Moving from Good to Great”. We will be calling on UNESCO to assist the British Virgin Islands with training and  development of educational policies, programmes and protocols based on international best practice so that we too  remain relevant in the twenty-first century.
30.4 Madam President, in conclusion I wish to say that the British Virgin Islands have benefited from our membership  and association with UNESCO. We therefore pledge our commitment to ensure that every British Virgin Islands resident  remains a strong advocate for UNESCO and its ideals. I thank you.
31. The President:  Thank you very much, your Excellency. And now, I would like to give the floor to the Ambassador of Chile to  France, Permanent Delegate to UNESCO, His Excellency Mr Jorge Edwards. The floor is yours, Sir.
(32.1) Mr Edwards (Chile) (translation from the Spanish):   Madam President of the General Conference, Madam Director-General, Madam Chair of the Executive Board, dear  ministers, distinguished delegates, ladies and gentlemen. Madam President, let me start by warmly congratulating you on your  election as President of the General Conference and assuring you that the Chilean delegation is committed to supporting you  in the work that is to begin. Chile is a country of educational tradition, of thinking in the fields of education, pedagogy, spirit and  action. Gabriela Mistral, winner of the Nobel Prize for Literature after the Second World War, was an active member of the  International Institute of Intellectual Cooperation of the League of Nations, precursor to UNESCO. Her professional archive,  filled with surprising educative thoughts and a generous vocation can now mostly be found in the underground rooms of this  Organization. Mistral’s poetry always led her to have an in-depth view into the main themes of education. Her reflection was  revolutionary in terms of gender equality themes. Her verse and prose were the first of the Spanish language to be inspired by  the indigenous Hispanic American world. Towards the end of the 1930s, she played a part in the Chilean Popular Front  Government, whose motto, inspired by her example, was “to govern is to educate”. That is to say, she was one of the  twentieth century’s best representatives of UNESCO ideals, in the widest sense and with a creative passion.
(32.2) In recent decades, Chile has achieved important results in the theme of providing education to all. Today, seven out  of ten higher education students come from families that had never before made it into university. We are now at a threshold of  modern development, in which the whole country - and especially the young - requires more progress in essential aspects:  democratic and equal access to schools and quality teaching. My government considers that young people are entitled to be  impatient, to mobilize for their rights, and we are giving them our full attention. The Government has allocated US $4,000  million – a considerable sum in relation to our real economic dimensions - to increasing the education budget over the next  four years, with the intention of improving quality, helping the most impoverished sectors to become educated, increasing  transparency and fighting any form of abuse. We would like to establish high quality education for all and ensure that nobody  misses out on primary, secondary or even higher education owing to a lack of economic means. It is a significant challenge  and will need unprecedented national consensus. However, we believe that this consensus is in preparation right now, and we  believe that the country can overcome the difficult situation, the as-yet unresolved conflict, and turn itself around once again,  like it did during the times of Gabriela Mistral and many other men and women of the world of politics and culture, transforming  into a great cultural, educational and scientific centre, a reference for all, located in the most southern region of the American  continent.
(32.3) My country can appreciate and is especially grateful for the work that the UNESCO Office in Santiago is carrying out  on the field. We also understand the needs and thus wholly support UNESCO’s action in the field of the sciences.  We  welcome UNESCO’s efforts alongside the international community in facing climate change and we would like to highlight the  work by the Intergovernmental Oceanographic Commission (IOC), which is essential in the management of oceanic resources,  the protection of coastal zones, early warning systems for natural disasters and the mitigation of their effects. These are  themes that unfortunately affect my country disproportionally, but have served both to develop our character and strengthen  our identity as a modern nation.
(32.4) Finally, Madam President, I can assure you that Chile highly values UNESCO’s action regarding culture, the  safeguarding of heritage, attention given to identity and cultural diversity. We are, as a poet of the Spanish Renaissance once  said, “the New World”, but this is precisely why we can offer an assembly of vestiges, monuments, heritage sites and unique  natural sites, from the moáis arranged in a mysterious pattern on the slopes of Easter Island’s volcanoes, to the alleyways and  hills of the Historical Quarter of Valparaíso Island. Madam President, in a time of conflict, turbulence, a world crisis and a  pending crisis of our Organization itself, we believe that the solution does not involve running away from this complicated  situation, but rather facing it through decision-making, by upholding the historic ideals of UNESCO added to its new humanism,  and thus strengthening our action. My country, Chile, Madam President, is ready to help, to contribute, to work with openness  of mind and is convinced that international solidarity is more urgent today than it ever was before. Thank you very much.
33. The President:  Thank you very much. And now, I would like to give the floor to the Ambassador, Permanent Delegate of  Estonia to UNESCO, His Excellency Mr Marten Kokk.
34.1 Mr Kokk (Estonia):  Good morning,  Madam President of the General Conference, Madam Director-General, Madam  Chair of the  Executive Board, ladies and gentlemen. I would like to join many others before me in offering my congratulations to you,  Madam President, on your election. Good to see you here, Katalin.
34.2 Excellencies, I am happy to say that two weeks ago Estonia celebrated the twentieth anniversary of our  membership of UNESCO. During that time we have become increasingly more engaged in UNESCO’s activities and we  are honoured to have had the experience of working in the Intangible Heritage Committee and World Heritage  Committee. During this General Conference, Estonia is participating for the first time in the work of the Legal Committee.  We have also presented our candidature to the International Coordinating Council of the Programme on Man and  Biosphere and intend to run for the Executive Board in 2013.
34.3 Distinguished delegates, the discussions we will have here on global cooperation in education, science and  culture are rooted in the shared values and mutual respect that UNESCO was built on and stands for. The Arab Spring  has once again shown that human rights and dignity are universal values to which we all aspire. We have also witnessed  the crucial role played by youth in these social transformations and we have been reminded of the importance of the free  flow of information and freedom of expression for all that UNESCO actively promotes in the world. Estonia welcomes  UNESCO’s new programme of action for a culture of peace and non-violence that has been proposed as one of the six  intersectoral platforms encompassing, inter alia, major action relating to intercultural dialogue and human rights. We are
304  pleased to see the close cooperation between UNESCO and United Nations Alliance of Civilizations in furthering  intercultural dialogue. Estonia is determined to work with UNESCO in promoting respect for human rights in the world.
34.4 Ladies and gentlemen, Estonia would like to pay tribute to the efforts of the Director-General and her team to  reform UNESCO’s programmes and structure. As Director-General Irina Bokova herself has said, “this is a reform to  perform”, and we count on that spirit to continue. We are always judged on the merit of our results, even within the  constraints of the zero nominal growth budget. We are pleased to see very substantial increases for Africa and gender  equality that correspond to their priority status across the Organization. In this context we would like to point out that  gender equality and women’s rights are important priorities of Estonia’s human rights policy and development  cooperation policy.
34.5 We believe that UNESCO’s role first and foremost is normative action and respective monitoring, formulation of  global policies as well as policy advice and capacity-building in its Member States. Education and especially education  for all (EFA) programmes are an important prerequisite for the attainment of the Millennium Development Goals (MDGs).  This year’s EFA Global Monitoring Report (GMR) told us clearly that, while progress has been made, we have a long  way to go to achieve the 2015 goals and to ensure that educational opportunities are available to all. Given that the  majority of out-of-school children and two thirds of illiterate adults are female, we welcome UNESCO’s recent initiative to  launch the Global Partnership for Girls’ and Women’s Education. We also believe it is crucial to look beyond the  quantitative and statistical data and focus on the quality of education.
34.6 Ladies and gentlemen, UNESCO is well known as a standard-setter. We would like to share with you our  concerns on the current state of affairs regarding two flagship conventions of UNESCO, namely the 1972 Convention  and the 2003 Convention. We regret to say that the increasing operational problems and politicization of the World  Heritage Committee threaten to compromise its credibility and the image of the World Heritage List’s success. The  decisions of the Committee diverge more and more frequently from the professional advice of the advisory bodies. I think  this is something that we will all have to work together to remedy. First cycles of implementation of the 2003 Convention  for the Safeguarding of the Intangible Cultural Heritage reflect both the tremendous interest generated but also the  unequal preparation of countries and regions of the world to benefit from it. The Member States’ current focus on the lists  of the Convention, especially the Representative List, poses a challenge in practical terms. It is important to adopt a  responsible attitude to the amount of work the Committee and the Secretariat are able to accomplish during a year.  Therefore, the number of nominations that the Committee can examine each year has to be limited.
34.7 As for science, Estonia highly appreciates UNESCO’s work in the area of bioethics, world water issues, disaster  risk reduction and preparedness, as well as international collaborative research for sustainable development. And finally,  I would like to take this opportunity to reaffirm Estonia’s commitment to UNESCO and to contribute to its development  and work in the years ahead. Thank you all for your attention.
35. The President:  Thank you very much, your Excellency. And now, I would like to give the floor to the Permanent Delegate of  Australia to UNESCO, Her Excellency Ms Gita Kamath. The floor is yours.
36.1 Ms Kamath (Australia):  President of the General Conference, Excellencies, colleagues, the world has changed since we last gathered  here in Paris in 2009. We have all been moved by the momentous events of the Arab Spring. The historic transitions  under way highlight the importance of the continued commitment of all Member States to fulfil UNESCO's mandate and  its noble goals of peace and human development. The last two years have also been marked by the enduring global  financial crisis. In these times of fiscal austerity, UNESCO needs to be very clear about where it can best add value – it  cannot be, and should not try to be, everything to everyone. We welcome the Director-General's efforts to craft a C/5  framework based on zero nominal growth which concentrates on a limited number of strategic objectives. Reforming  UNESCO is a shared responsibility between its governing bodies and Secretariat, requiring a sustained and coordinated  set of actions. We welcome the Director-General’s consolidated action plan and encourage her to continue efforts to  streamline business practices and free up resources to reinforce priority programmes We support developing and  implementing exit strategies for marginal and under-performing activities, alongside programme monitoring and  evaluation mechanisms that are transparent to Member States. Greater coordination with other United Nations  programmes will also assist in minimizing any potential overlap and in ensuring the effective use of resources. We  appreciate that the net effect of these actions will take time to bear fruit, but we are heading in the right direction.  UNESCO needs to position itself closer to country needs and partners to ensure its relevance and impact. Australia  supports the first phase of UNESCO’s field network reform which is to be rolled out on the African continent. We are  strongly in favour of upgrading over time the UNESCO Office in Apia to a multisectoral regional office better equipped to  cover the specific needs of the region.
36.2 Australia welcomes the opportunity to contribute to UNESCO's important work on the education for all (EFA)  goals and the Global Partnership for Education (GPE). Australia will co-sponsor the Global Partnership's Replenishment  Pledging Conference in November and encourages UNESCO Members to support this partnership. We value the work of  UNESCO to support partner governments in developing effective education systems In recognition of this, we are  providing $1.35 million over three years to the Global Monitoring Report. We are also renewing our financial contribution  to UNESCO’s International Institute for Educational Planning. Education is the flagship of Australia's aid programme. Our  assistance is targeted at getting more children into school for a longer and better quality education. Recognizing that  educating girls and women yields some of the highest returns of all development investments and benefits individuals,  families and society at large, Australia continues to support improvements to women’s and girls’ education in many
305  developing countries. The appointment of our first Global Ambassador for Women and Girls will lend a stronger voice in  promoting gender issues on the world stage.
36.3 The twentieth anniversary of the Memory of the World Programme next year provides a timely opportunity to  reflect on its future. Australia’s active engagement in this field was recognized by the designation of the National  Archives of Australia as the laureate of the 2011 UNESCO/Jikji Memory of the World Prize for its innovative initiatives in  the preservation of digital records. Australia looks forward to hosting, with UNESCO's patronage, the 34th International  Geological Congress, to be held in Brisbane in August 2012. I am delighted to announce that Australia will sponsor the  participation of up to 90 African delegates at this event in recognition of the valuable perspective that countries in Africa  can bring to UNESCO's work in science. We are working hard to ensure a strong outcome for sustainable development  in the lead-up to Rio+20. Australia hosts the Intergovernmental Oceanographic Commission's (IOC) Regional  Programme Office for the Indian Ocean in Perth which supports the coordination of ocean science applications such as  climate forecasting. Australia, India and Indonesia recently assumed key roles for the Indian Ocean Tsunami Warning  System coordinated under the IOC. We were pleased with its successful launch earlier this month which will lead to  stronger regional collaboration in disaster risk mitigation.
36.4 The World Heritage Convention is nearing two important milestones: 40 years since it came into effect and the  inscription of the one thousandth site on the World Heritage List. During its term of office on the World Heritage  Committee, Australia is proud to have played a leading role in considering strategic responses to present and future  challenges to the Convention to ensure that it continues in its mission for the next 40 years and beyond. We welcome the  opportunity to sponsor a world heritage expert meeting in Senegal this year with a particular focus on state of  conservation challenges in Africa. We are also particularly proud of our contribution towards raising the capacity of the  Pacific to implement the World Heritage Convention.
36.5 Australia welcomes the priority UNESCO is giving to addressing the special challenges facing small island  developing States. We observe that in our own region, the needs of the Pacific island States in UNESCO's fields of  competence are great and that their voices need to be heard. We therefore welcome the nomination of Papua New  Guinea for membership of the UNESCO Executive Board, and Palau's candidature for the World Heritage Committee.  Madam President, I wish you and our fellow delegates well as we work together in the coming days to agree on  UNESCO’s priorities for the next biennium. Thank you.
37. The President:  Thank you very much, Your Excellency. And now, I would like to give the floor to Her Excellency Ms Gisele  Ossakedjombo-Ngoua Memiaghe, Ambassador and Permanent Delegate of Gabon to UNESCO. The floor is yours.
38.1 Mme Ossakedjombo-Ngoua Memiaghe (Gabon) :  Madame la Présidente de la Conférence générale, Madame la Présidente du Conseil exécutif, Madame la  Directrice générale, Mesdames et Messieurs les Ministres, chefs de délégation, Mesdames et Messieurs les Sous- Directeurs généraux, Excellences, Mesdames et Messieurs les Ambassadeurs, Mesdames, Messieurs, en prenant la  parole devant cette auguste Assemblée, l'honneur m'échoit de réitérer à Mme la Directrice générale les chaleureuses  félicitations du Gouvernement gabonais, suite à sa brillante élection à la tête de notre honorable Institution. Non  seulement vous êtes devenue la 10e personne élue à la tête de notre Organisation mais vous êtes, surtout, la première  femme à la diriger, consacrant ainsi l'approche genre.
38.2 Madame la Présidente de la Conférence générale, le Président de la République gabonaise, S. E. M. Ali Bongo  Ondimba, que vous avez reçu dernièrement, a porté à la connaissance de la présente Assemblée le niveau  particulièrement élevé de promotion du concept d’approche genre au Gabon, que nous entendons consolider en  adéquation avec la Vision de l'émergence. Relativement à cette vision de faire du Gabon un pays émergent par la mise  en œuvre des trois piliers que sont le « Gabon vert », le « Gabon industriel» et le « Gabon des services», les domaines  de l'UNESCO sont déclinés comme première urgence sociale de l'axe stratégique n° 9, consacré à la lutte contre la  pauvreté et contre toute forme d'exclusion. Cette lutte contre l'exclusion se fait par la valorisation et la capitalisation de  l'ensemble du potentiel humain national, grâce à une éducation et à une formation de qualité, à une recherche  scientifique largement soutenue, à la promotion de l'innovation dans tous les domaines, ainsi qu'à la dynamisation de la  culture gabonaise et des civilisations bantoues, comme puissants véhicules des valeurs sociales, sociétales, civiques,  culturelles et environnementales à promouvoir. La promotion de ces valeurs africaines doit se faire en synergie avec  toutes les formes de culture, dans le cadre d'un nécessaire dialogue des peuples et des civilisations, pour  l’affermissement de la paix et de la sécurité dans le monde. Cependant, l'appropriation des valeurs d'une civilisation  donnée par une autre ne doit pas être une simple imitation. Il doit plutôt s’agir d’une appropriation prenant la forme de la  figure allégorique de Montaigne, qui faisait observer que « Les abeilles pillotent deçà delà les fleurs ; mais elles en font  après le miel, qui est tout leur ».
38.3 Parce que la paix passe par l'éducation, la science et la culture – principe proclamé, notamment, par l'Acte  constitutif de l'UNESCO –, le système éducatif gabonais, qui a fait l'objet d'une profonde refondation à l'occasion des  états généraux de l'éducation des 17 et 18 mai 2010, est en cours de profonde modernisation. Dans le cadre de cette  modernisation, est-il nécessaire de rappeler que le Gabon a atteint, depuis plus de 20 ans, une scolarisation quasi  universelle au primaire et une parité entre filles et garçons jusqu'au secondaire, et même dans l’enseignement supérieur.
38.4 Par ailleurs, pour moderniser davantage notre système éducatif, il est envisagé, d'une part, de mettre en place  des dynamiques regroupant, autour de l'État, universitaires, industriels et autres producteurs et professionnels, pour une  meilleure promotion de la recherche appliquée et de la recherche-développement par l'innovation, et de  professionnaliser 60 à 70 % des offres de formation au niveau supérieur. D'autre part, il est envisagé de promouvoir sur
306  l’ensemble du territoire des écoles dédiées au sport ou à la culture afin d’accueillir les jeunes talents et de former,  pourquoi pas ? la pépinière des futures élites nationales et des futurs champions panafricains et internationaux.
38.5 Cette modernisation du système éducatif gabonais intègre également la promotion des sciences et des  technologies, notamment des TIC. Dans cette optique, le Gabon, par le biais de sa Commission nationale pour  l'UNESCO et du Bureau multipays de l'UNESCO, compte sur le soutien appuyé et renouvelé de l'Organisation dans le  prolongement de l’Atelier régional de renforcement des capacités sur la révision des politiques des sciences, de la  technologie et de l’innovation (STI), et des statistiques et indicateurs des STI en Afrique centrale, organisé à Libreville du
12 au 15 avril 2011, pour lequel nous remercions vivement les ADG sciences et Afrique.
38.6 En matière culturelle, le Centre international des civilisations bantu (CICIBA) va être relancé très prochainement,  à la demande du Chef de l'État. Ses activités ont été repensées dans le sens d'une meilleure promotion de la culture  bantoue, partagée dans un espace qui compte 11 pays, pour une population totale de plus de 150 millions d'habitants.  La diversité culturelle d'un tel espace peut mobiliser tous les chercheurs de cette aire, dans une dynamique à la fois  rétrospective, prospective et transculturelle.
38.7 En s'appuyant, en effet, sur des œuvres, même antiques, on peut faire apparaître des valeurs nouvelles. Grâce  au dialogue engagé par les humanistes et les poètes avec l'Antiquité, on est parvenu à l'idée d'une permanence de  l'homme, par-delà les distances et les différences. L'histoire nous enseigne également, depuis le voyage du pape  Sylvestre II au monastère de Ripoll, en Catalogne, où il exploita des ouvrages provenant du monde arabe, combien  l'Occident a pu prendre à la science arabe jusqu’au XIIIe siècle grâce aux œuvres pionnières de traduction arabe  d’ouvrages antiques.
38.8 Dans le cadre du développement durable, le Gabon poursuit un important programme qui entend mettre en  place, à Libreville, une agence gabonaise d'études et d'observations spatiales, dans le prolongement du don fait à  l'humanité par le peuple gabonais de consacrer 10 % de son territoire à 13 parcs nationaux dont l'un, celui de la Lopé,  est classé au patrimoine mondial de l'UNESCO. C'est une importante contribution du Gabon à la lutte contre les  changements climatiques, dont les affres – tremblements de terre, inondations, tsunamis et autres catastrophes  naturelles graves – affectent l'essor technologique et les industries de production en menaçant l'humanité et la vie sur  terre en général.
38.9 C'est donc fortement sensible à ces risques et menaces que le Gabon continuera d’apporter son soutien à  l'UNESCO et à l'ensemble de ses programmes, pour ne pas attendre, sans s'engager, que s'accomplisse la prédication  de Jacques Attali : « que des catastrophes d’ordre financier, écologique, démographique, sanitaire, politique, éthique,  culturel […] fassent comprendre aux hommes que leurs destins sont liés. Ils prendront alors conscience de l'ampleur des  menaces systémiques à venir ».
38.10 Madame la Présidente de la Conférence générale, Madame la Présidente du Conseil exécutif, Madame la  Directrice générale, Mesdames et Messieurs les Ambassadeurs, Mesdames et Messieurs les Ministres, chefs de  délégation, je vous remercie de votre aimable attention.
39. The President:  Merci beaucoup. Your Excellencies, dear friends, ladies and gentlemen, I feel that the hall is a bit noisy. We still  have distinguished speakers delivering their national statements and I would like to ask you to listen to them. Thank you  very much. And now, I would like to give the floor to the Ambassador of Switzerland to UNESCO, His Excellency  Mr Rodolphe Imhoof. The floor is yours, Excellency.
40.1 M. Imhoof (Suisse) :  Madame la Présidente de la Conférence générale, Madame la Présidente du Conseil exécutif, Madame la  Directrice générale, Excellences, Mesdames, Messieurs, après la discussion stimulante et fructueuse qui a eu lieu au  Forum des dirigeants, j’aimerais vous assurer que la Suisse se réjouit des initiatives prises par l’UNESCO afin de  renforcer la prise de conscience mondiale quant à la nécessité d’édifier une culture de la paix et de promouvoir un  développement global et durable. André Malraux ne disait-il pas « l’homme est ce qu’il fait » ? D’ailleurs, les résultats et  les recommandations du Forum des jeunes me portent à croire que ces deux axes essentiels sont partagés par ceux qui  portent l’avenir de l’humanité sur leurs épaules.
40.2 La jeunesse doit être au centre de nos préoccupations, Madame la Présidente. C’est pourquoi nous attachons  une si grande importance à l’éducation – une Éducation pour tous, tout au long de la vie, tant formelle qu’informelle ; une  éducation adaptée aux aspirations et aux besoins ; une éducation de qualité qui permette aux jeunes de s’insérer dans  un monde en mutation, où la diversité restera le pendant inéluctable de la globalisation.
40.3 S’agissant d’ailleurs de la diversité, de son principe, la jeunesse actuelle a la capacité de se l’approprier mieux  qu’aucune autre des générations précédentes. À cet égard, Madame la Directrice générale, nous pensons qu’en ce
10e anniversaire de la Déclaration universelle de l'UNESCO sur la diversité culturelle, le maintien de ce texte au sommet  de vos priorités est primordial.
40.4 Mais, et vous le savez bien, la Suisse partage pleinement l’inquiétude, Madame la Directrice générale, que vous  avez exprimée quant à certaines décisions prises au niveau des conventions culturelles. Ainsi, à la veille du
40e anniversaire de la Convention de 1972, la politisation croissante des décisions du Comité du patrimoine mondial, au  niveau tant interne qu’international, est une dérive malheureuse. Celle-ci se fait aux dépens d’une analyse objective de  la valeur universelle exceptionnelle des sites candidats et de l’état de conservation des biens inscrits.
40.5 La bonne gestion des conventions culturelles de l’UNESCO doit être un objectif prioritaire. Je pense à un  domaine comme celui des transferts des biens culturels, que la Suisse soutient activement. Nous aimerions préconiser
307  au Secrétariat d’adopter une approche plus globale dans son action normative, avec des moyens suffisants pour toutes  les conventions et programmes afin, non seulement, de renforcer cette fonction essentielle et visible de l’UNESCO, mais  aussi d’en faire un ensemble cohérent qui permette de tenir pleinement compte de notre diversité.
40.6 Madame la Présidente, Mesdames et Messieurs, parce que la démocratie et la décentralisation ne sont pas de  vains mots pour la Suisse, nous estimons à leur juste valeur les actions menées par l’UNESCO sur le terrain. Notre  Organisation est fondée sur l’inclusion de tous les êtres humains – et je dis bien tous. Certes, les actions holistiques se  révèlent parfois difficiles à mettre en œuvre. Mais la Suisse sait que les principes qui les sous-tendent finissent toujours  par porter leurs fruits, à condition, bien entendu, que l’UNESCO travaille dans la synthèse, l’approche commune, en  adéquation avec les besoins, les priorités et les objectifs de ses États membres. Le prérequis reste toutefois la capacité  d’action de l’UNESCO, définie d’abord par ses compétences, et ensuite, bien entendu, par ses moyens.
40.7 Démocratie, décentralisation, concordance. Compétences et moyens. À ces différents égards, le réseau des  commissions nationales, spécifique à l’UNESCO, constitue assurément un atout, permettez-moi de le dire, sous-exploité.  N’oublions pas que les commissions nationales relaient nos messages dans le grand public et que c’est grâce à elles  que les idées de l’UNESCO font leur chemin dans la société civile. La somme de leur expertise et de leur engagement  est largement méconnue. Madame la Directrice générale, il s’agit donc de les aider à exister comme multiplicateurs du  message de l’UNESCO.
40.8 Pour terminer, Madame la Présidente, je tiens à saluer les efforts déployés, avec vigueur et détermination, par  la Directrice générale et son équipe pour dépoussiérer notre vénérable Organisation, pour accroître sa visibilité et pour  recentrer ses actions sur ses spécificités et ses priorités. Nous lui savons gré également d’avoir engagé la mise en  œuvre d’aspirations que nous partageons. Néanmoins, pour remplir sa tâche, l’UNESCO doit pouvoir disposer de  moyens appropriés. Si la Suisse rejoint le consensus autour d’un budget à croissance nominale zéro, je me dois ici de  rappeler qu’une organisation telle que l’UNESCO ne peut durablement évoluer sans une dotation adéquate de ses  services centraux de gestion. Merci, Madame la Présidente.
41. The President:  Merci beaucoup. Now I would like to give the floor to the Ambassador of Djibouti to France and Permanent  Delegate to UNESCO, His Excellency Mr Rachad Farah.
42.1 M. Farah (Djibouti) :  Madame la Présidente de la Conférence générale, Madame la Présidente du Conseil exécutif, Madame la  Directrice générale, Excellences, Mesdames et Messieurs les Ministres et chefs de délégation, mon pays s’associe au  message de solidarité et de compassion adressé à nos sœurs et frères turcs et thaïlandais, qui traversent en cet instant  l’enfer des drames causés par les catastrophes naturelles.
42.2 Au Royaume d’Arabie saoudite frère, je présente toutes mes condoléances pour la perte de leur regretté Prince  héritier Sultan ben Abdelaziz.
42.3 Permettez-moi de joindre ma voix à celle des illustres orateurs qui m’ont précédé pour vous féliciter, Madame la  Présidente, pour votre élection à la tête de notre Conférence générale. J’aimerais également réitérer mes  encouragements à Mme la Directrice générale à ne pas relâcher ses efforts dans la bonne conduite de notre  Organisation. Nous savons tous à quel point la période que notre monde traverse demande une énergie sans faille pour  affronter épreuves, défis et réalités.
42.4 Madame la Présidente, nous ne pouvons nier que la situation actuelle est marquée par une crise économique et  financière majeure, qui ne cesse d’accroître nos inquiétudes pour l’avenir. Pas seulement parce qu’elle remet en cause  nos modèles économiques contemporains ou nos structures économiques mondiales. Ni parce qu’elle met en exergue  les défaillances de nos systèmes. Nous devons viser l’excellence dans notre réflexion sur la bonne gouvernance  financière mondiale et stimuler la recherche de mécanismes de financement innovants, alternatifs mais très solidaires.
42.5 Dans ce contexte défavorable, nous reconnaissons l’ampleur des défis qui attendent notre Organisation et qui  mettent en péril la bonne mise en œuvre de nos décisions. Mais, à l’image de la croissance démographique mondiale   – rappelons que nous sommes aujourd’hui au nombre de 7 milliards d’êtres humains – ces défis majeurs nous rappellent  la raison même d’exister de l’UNESCO. Aussi, je le répète, soyons vigilants mais sans céder au défaitisme ni au  pessimisme ambiant.
42.6 Certes, si la réduction, plus drastique qu’escomptée, de l’aide publique au développement est incontournable à  cette heure, nous ne pouvons que déplorer son impact désastreux sur de nombreuses initiatives. Voilà un exemple  concret de la réalité.
42.7 La réalité est surtout le drame humain qui sévit à nouveau dans notre région. Force est de constater que nous  avons peine à endiguer les ravages de la famine, alors qu’il nous faut l’éradiquer à sa source. Et cela implique une foi  inébranlable en l’avenir, un engagement immédiat et durable par un véritable investissement. Oui, un investissement sur  la richesse la plus précieuse de notre continent : la jeunesse, avec une population composée aux deux tiers de moins de
30 ans. Cette jeunesse, première victime, malheureusement, à subir les affres de cette catastrophe humanitaire, n’en  reste pas moins porteuse des lumières de demain. C’est pourquoi nous insistons sur l’importance du droit à l’éducation.  Oui, la jeunesse conduit le changement. Aussi réitérons-nous notre satisfaction quant au débat tenu par le 7e Forum des  jeunes de l’UNESCO autour des problématiques de l’exclusion, de la vulnérabilité et de la violence. La jeunesse a su  garder au centre de sa réflexion les valeurs clés que sont la culture de la paix, la solidarité et le respect des diversités.
42.8 Madame le Présidente, donnons à la jeunesse les moyens de ses ambitions. Créons un véritable mécanisme  institutionnel, au sein de notre Organisation, accompagné d’un dispositif financier, aussi modeste soit-il. L’idée n’est pas
308  de créer un énième chapitre budgétaire mais bien de concrétiser notre croyance profonde en la jeunesse et en ses  capacités, en permettant la réalisation des projets qui correspondent point par point aux réalités du terrain. Nommons  dès à présent cette initiative de la manière la plus parlante : « À l’écoute de demain ».
42.9 Madame la Présidente, nous attachons la plus grande importance à participer activement à l’élaboration du  nouveau programme d’action pour une culture de la paix et de la non-violence. Nous nous félicitons de la qualité du  Forum des dirigeants.
42.10 Si la famine dans notre région a occupé le terrain médiatique ces derniers mois, ses dégâts ne font qu’aggraver  l’insoutenable réalité qu’affrontent nos frères somaliens, brisés par des décennies de guerre civile et par la gangrène de  l’obscurantisme.
42.11 Je réitère ici mon appel à l’UNESCO afin qu’un programme d’éducation de la jeunesse somalienne soit entamé  le plus rapidement possible en Somalie au moyen, notamment, des fonds de la Banque mondiale d’un montant de  deux milliards de dollars annoncés en faveur des pays de la Corne de l’Afrique.
42.12 Madame, nous sommes attachés à la paix dans toutes nos régions et, en particulier, au Moyen-Orient.  Beaucoup de choses ont été dites au sujet du conflit israélo-palestinien et autant de positions ont été exprimées. Mais je  souhaite rappeler ici que l’objectif ultime est de pouvoir annoncer la paix et la stabilité dans cette région. Et cela passe  inévitablement par la reconnaissance des droits inaliénables des Palestiniens.
42.13 Madame la Présidente, condamnons la propagation de l’obscurantisme au sein de notre jeunesse et rappelons  que les conditions de son éradication sont indissociables du respect des diversités culturelles et de leur promotion, ainsi  que de l’accès à l’éducation pour les populations les plus défavorisées. Mais il y a pour cela une condition sine qua non :  ne laissons pas nos craintes, aussi fondées soient-elles, paralyser notre action. Je vous remercie.
43. The President:  Merci beaucoup. Now, I would like to give the floor to the Permanent Delegate of New Zealand to UNESCO,  Ms Victoria Hallum.
44.1 Ms Hallum (New Zealand):  Tena koutou katoa kua huihui mai nei i tenei ra (Greetings to all who have gathered here today). Madam  President, Madam Director-General, Madam Chair of the Executive Board, distinguished representatives, ladies and  gentlemen, this General Conference comes at a time of considerable global change and uncertainty. The challenges of  our time only serve to underline the importance of dialogue among people and cultures based upon mutual respect and  shared values, the pursuit of which lies at the heart of UNESCO’s mandate. Events of the past year have reinforced New  Zealand’s firm belief in the importance of multilateral solutions to international problems, carried through with the support  and participation of all countries. UNESCO’s role is to be a catalyst for international collaboration, a laboratory of ideas  and a clearing house for cutting-edge thinking, a standard-setter and a capacity-builder across the domains of science,  education and culture. As such, UNESCO works to contribute to sustainable development, the expansion of quality  educational opportunities for all, the promotion of freedom of expression, the preservation of culture and heritage, and  the use of science to tackle problems of global impact which cannot be addressed by States alone.
44.2 Madam President, many countries, including New Zealand, have been affected by natural disasters over the  past biennium. Following the devastating earthquakes in Christchurch, my government was deeply appreciative of the  messages of support received from the Director-General and from UNESCO Members and colleagues. We take this  opportunity to reiterate our heartfelt sympathy to others who have suffered disasters of even greater proportions. The  prevalence of such disasters reinforces the importance of effective disaster preparedness, mitigation and recovery.  UNESCO’s role in providing policy advice, facilitating sharing of knowledge and experience, and education for disaster  preparedness is more needed than ever. A striking aspect of the Christchurch earthquakes was the resilience and  proactivity of the youth of the shattered city in contributing to the recovery. The New Zealand National Commission for  UNESCO had an important role to play in bringing together diverse groups of youth leaders to discuss the rebuilding of  their city and to present their vision to local and central government. This same group of youth leaders has moved on to  plan, in association with the National Commission and UNESCO’s Bangkok and Apia Offices, a forum which will be held  in Christchurch in December. This forum will bring together young people from the Asia and the Pacific region who have  suffered disasters to share their experience and develop recommendations to UNESCO, governments and other relevant  bodies.
44.3 Madam President, New Zealand emphasizes the importance of UNESCO’s continuing commitment to the Pacific  sub-region, a region made up of 17 States, of which 15 are small island developing States spread across a vast ocean.  In the context of the reform of UNESCO’s field network, we reiterate the essential importance we attach to the UNESCO  Office for the Pacific as UNESCO’s presence in this region. We look forward to the re-establishment of this office as a  multisectoral regional office within the new structure, with strengthened capacity to respond to the needs of its Member  States and clarified lines of accountability.
44.4 Madam President, in a world of shrinking resources it is imperative that UNESCO demonstrates its ability to add  value. New Zealand reaffirms its support to the Director-General in the reform of UNESCO and the implementation of the  independent external evaluation, which we hope will lead to a more focused and cost-effective Organization which is  responsive to the needs of Members and is measured by its real impact, rather than by the number of meetings held and  publications produced. We also support increased transparency throughout the Organization, as we believe there is a  strong correlation between increased transparency and improved performance. We continue to believe that  intersectorality is a key comparative advantage of UNESCO. We commend the Director-General for her initiative to  rationalize the number of intersectoral platforms and to provide these platforms with dedicated funding. We consider that
309  the next Medium-Term Strategy should be organized around a limited number of intersectoral themes, and this  intersectoral approach needs also to be reflected in the organization of the Secretariat. We encourage UNESCO in its  efforts to devise a more effective consultation process with its Member States to identify the programmes whose ongoing  value justifies their continuation. Madam, the global financial crisis has compelled governments across the world to  observe strict financial constraints, tighten budgets and seek to provide ongoing services with fewer resources. My  government has welcomed the call by the United Nations Secretary-General, Ban Ki-moon, for United Nations agencies  to take similar steps. We urge UNESCO to heed the Secretary-General’s call to pursue better prioritization and increased  financial discipline, including in the budget for the coming biennium.
44.5 Madam President, 65 years ago New Zealand was the second country in the world to sign up to UNESCO.  Today we welcome South Sudan as UNESCO’s newest Member and pledge our ongoing support for UNESCO’s mission.  Thank you, Madam President.
45. The President:  Thank you very much. And now, ladies and gentlemen, we are coming to the Observers. First, I would like to  give the floor to the Secretary General of the Organization of Islamic Cooperation (OIC), His Excellency Mr Ekmeleddin  Ihsanoğlu. I should remind you that Observers are required to limit their speaking time to three minutes.
46.1 Mr Ihsanoğlu (Organization of Islamic Cooperation - OIC):  Madam President of the General Conference, Madam Chair of the Executive Board, Madam Director-General,  distinguished delegates, ladies and gentlemen, it gives me great pleasure to address this important General Conference  of UNESCO. I am happy to say that, under the able and wise leadership of its Director-General, Ms Irina Bokova,  UNESCO has achieved significant progress in key areas of its activities.
46.2 First of all, let me, on behalf of OIC, applaud the significant vote and rightful recommendation of the Executive  Board to admit Palestine’s bid for full membership of UNESCO and commend this very constructive and objective  resolution. Therefore, OIC calls upon UNESCO’s General Conference to adopt that resolution, in order to foster the  Palestinians’ legitimate aspirations for statehood and increase the possibilities for a lasting peace based on the vision of  the two-State solution. After long years of occupation and oppression, it is now high time for Palestine to be admitted to  the United Nations and UNESCO. This is also imperative to create conditions for ending ongoing violations in the  occupied Palestinian territories through confiscating lands, demolishing houses, building illegal settlements, constructing  the apartheid wall, erecting hundreds of checkpoints, detaining thousands of Palestinians and imposing an unjust  blockade on Gaza. The systematic process of altering the historical identity of the Holy City by Judaizing occupied East  Jerusalem, the efforts to change the demographic composition and the excavations underneath the Holy Mosque are  nothing short of an attack on the culture of a great civilization. We think that UNESCO has a responsibility to protect,  preserve and promote the historical, cultural and natural environment.
46.3 I need not emphasize the important and pivotal role of UNESCO in today’s world, where cultural diversity and  intercultural and intercivilizational dialogue have become major challenges for a global order based on peace, mutual  understanding and respect. It is a matter of great concern for OIC and indeed for the entire international community that  Islamophobia has emerged as a new form of racism. The prevailing situation calls for a structured and committed  engagement to work out a mechanism to study and address the sources and root causes of this malaise. OIC’s initiative  with the United States and European governments in drafting United Nations Human Rights Council Resolution 16/18  entitled “Combating intolerance, negative stereotyping and stigmatization of, and discrimination, incitement to violence,  and violence against persons based on religion or belief” and its unanimous adoption broke the myth that a meeting of  minds on the issues of intolerance was not possible. On 15 July, in Istanbul, OIC hosted a ministerial meeting co-chaired  with United States Secretary of State, Hillary Clinton, to discuss the implementation of United Nations Human Rights  Council Resolution 16/18. OIC’s firm commitment to human rights is also reflected in the establishment of an  Independent Permanent Human Rights Commission (IPHRC) within OIC.
46.4 Madam President, in conclusion, allow me this opportunity to reiterate OIC’s commitment to continue to  cooperate and coordinate with UNESCO. The establishment of the OIC Liaison Office at UNESCO Headquarters  validates this commitment. I would also like to emphasize that the need for diversity, mutual respect and peaceful  coexistence has emerged strongly
46.5 To end, I would like to reiterate once more our call to support Palestinian’s request for full membership of  UNESCO, which dates back to 1989 and has been reiterated at each session of the General Conference. Today, we are  on the verge of a historic vote with the whole world waiting for your decision. I am sure that everybody in this hall will rise  to this moral obligation and stand on the right side of history. Thank you, Madam President.
47. The President:  Thank you very much. And now, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to give the floor to the last speaker on the list  of national statements, the Minister of Foreign Affairs of Palestine, His Excellency Mr Riad Al-Malki.
48.1 Mr Al-Malki (Palestine):   Thank you very much. Madam President of the General Conference, Madam Chair of the Executive Board,  Director-General, Your Excellencies, ministers, ambassadors, delegation members, ladies and gentlemen.  (The speaker continues in Spanish.)
(48.3) (translation from the Arabic) I am pleased to convey to you once again, from this rostrum, the appreciation of the  Palestinian people for UNESCO and its objectives, which embody the aspirations of humanity for a world in which peace and  cooperation among all people reign supreme, a world in which all the nations adhere to the principles of freedom and justice.  You doubtless know how much the Palestinian people appreciates your noble Organization for its lofty and constructive  objectives, and you are not unaware that the Palestinian people considers the objectives of UNESCO part of its own national  objectives because its demands may be summarized as follows: justice and upholding right as a single rule for peace and co- existence and the shaping of the future. I am pleased to take this valuable opportunity to convey to you the pride of the  Palestinian people in the effective moral support provided by UNESCO for its struggle to obtain independence and national  dignity, and to stress once again the strong desire of Palestine to join the free humanitarian system and its institutions as a full  member and to contribute with its aspirations honed by suffering and the experience of pain, and its struggle for justice in  building a world which guarantees security and justice to the future generations.
(48.4) Keeping abreast of progress and development in the fields of culture, education and the sciences is the first objective  of the Palestinian aspiration to join UNESCO as a full member, in view of the urgent need of Palestine to preserve its heritage,  on the one hand, and to provide appropriate conditions for education and to help to consolidate the values of justice and  equality on the other hand. What to think of the arguments of those who object to our joining the march of culture and  education in the world, and seek to thwart our joining UNESCO? Effective membership of Palestine in UNESCO and  Palestine’s playing of a positive role in the modern march of humanity and in inculcating the standards of freedom and the  values of equality among people without discrimination on the grounds of race, colour, creed or origin constitutes a definite  contribution to the building of international stability and peace. If we ask you to vote in favour of our full membership, be  assured that your assistance and support for the acceptance of Palestine as a full member of UNESCO will be the greatest  possible contribution to peace-making in the land of peace.
(48.5) I should like to stress to all present here and to observers that Palestine’s membership in UNESCO is not linked to  our request to join the United Nations or our membership therein. We began this endeavour 22 years ago, and we hope that it  may today be crowned with success. We also reiterate that our membership is not an alternative to anyone else’s, but rather  constitutes a qualitative addition to the family of UNESCO’s Member States, in the hope that that will not affect the
311  membership of any other State in UNESCO. On behalf of Palestine and the Palestinian people, history, heritage, present and  future, which we are charting together today, I urge you individually and State by State to think carefully and assume your  responsibility and make justice the basis of your vote, and that you give careful consideration to this vote today and its  implications for tomorrow, and to the historic responsibility we are assuming at this precise moment to remove albeit a small  part of the historic oppression committed against the Palestinian people. We ask for you vote today in order to give hope and  to consolidate the values of equality, justice and right. I ask you to vote in favour of Palestine; a vote for Palestine is a vote in  favour of right, justice and the future. Thank you.
49. The President:  Thank you very much, Your Excellency (applause). Your Excellencies, ladies and gentlemen, we would now like  to continue our session. This was our last speaker for this morning. We thus conclude this year’s national statements. I  wish to thank you very much for your inspiring remarks, observations and suggestions. The Director-General and her  staff have been listening closely and taking good note of your comments. Madam Bokova will deliver her reply this  afternoon. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that I have requested a live webcast of the next part of this  meeting.  Item 9.1: Request for the admission of Palestine   Point 9.1: Demande d’admission de la Palestine  Punto 9.1: Solicitud de admisión de Palestina   Пункт 9.1: Просьба о приеме Палестины   طلب انضمام فلسطين إلى عضوية اليونسكو : ٩,١البند    项目 9.1：要求接纳巴勒斯坦加入教科文组织
50. The President:  And now, ladies and gentlemen, we will examine item 9.1, “Request for the admission of Palestine to UNESCO”.  This item has been placed on the agenda in conformity with Resolution 74 adopted by the General Conference at its 35th  session and is the subject of the Executive Board’s recommendation at its 187th session as required in the Constitution  in Article II. Now, I would like to give the floor to the Chair of the Executive Board. Your Excellency, Ms Mitrofanova, the  floor is yours.
51. Ms Mitrofanova (Russian Federation), Chair of the Executive Board:  Thank you very much. Madam President of the General Conference, Madam Director-General, distinguished  delegates, ladies and gentlemen, pursuant to 182 EX/Decision 52, the Executive Board, at its 187th session, considered  the request for the admission of Palestine to UNESCO. Following a vote taken by roll-call, with forty votes in favour, four  votes against and fourteen abstentions, the Executive Board adopted 187 EX/Decision 40, by which it recommends that  the General Conference admit Palestine as a Member of UNESCO. Madam President, on behalf of the Executive Board  and in conformity with Article II, paragraph 2 and Article V.B, paragraphs 6 and 7 of the Constitution of our Organization,  may I therefore recommend that the General Conference adopt the text of the aforementioned Board decision. Thank  you very much.
52. The President:  Thank you very much, Madam Chair. According to Article II, a two-thirds majority vote of the General  Conference is required for admission to membership of the Organization. Ladies and gentlemen, you have in front of you  document 36 C/PLEN/DR.1 submitted on this item by 43 Member States and co-sponsored by another 11 Member  States. It is my understanding that we may proceed to a vote unless I see any objections. I see that Canada wishes to  take the floor. Canada, the floor is yours, Excellency.
53. M. Bachand (Canada) :  Merci, Madame la Présidente. J’aimerais demander que nous votions par appel nominal. Merci.
54. The President:  Does anybody wish to second that? Netherlands, the floor is yours, Sir.
55. Netherlands:  Thank you, Madam President. My delegation seconds the proposal of Canada.
56. The President:  Ladies and gentlemen, according to Rule 88 of the Rules of Procedure of the General Conference, vote by roll- call shall be taken if it is requested by not less than two Members. Further to the request of the representatives of  Canada and the Netherlands, the General Conference will now proceed to vote by roll-call. Let me remind you that,  according to Rule 85, paragraph 1(a) of the Rules of Procedure, the decision requires a two-thirds majority of the  Members present and voting. The Secretary will now call on each Member State alphabetically. The Member called  upon shall vote on whether it is in favour of adopting the draft resolution contained in document 36 C/PLEN/DR.1. Those  in favour should say Yes. Those against, simply, No. Members can, of course, also abstain. Mr Secretary, you may  proceed with the roll-call.
57. A vote by roll-call is taken. The results are as follows:  In favour: Afghanistan, Algeria, Angola, Argentina, Armenia, Austria, Azerbaijan, Bahrain, Bangladesh, Belarus,  Belgium, Belize, Benin, Bhutan, Bolivia (Plurinational State of), Botswana, Brazil, Brunei Darussalam, Burkina Faso,  Cambodia, Chad, Chile, China, Congo, Costa Rica, Cuba, Cyprus, Democratic People’s Republic of Korea, Democratic  Republic of the Congo, Djibouti, Dominican Republic, Ecuador, Egypt, El Salvador, Equatorial Guinea, Finland, France,
312  Gabon, Gambia, Ghana, Greece, Grenada, Guatemala, Guinea, Honduras, Iceland, India, Indonesia, Iran (Islamic  Republic of), Iraq, Ireland, Jordan, Kazakhstan, Kenya, Kuwait, Kyrgyzstan, Lao People’s Democratic Republic, Lebanon,  Lesotho, Libya, Luxembourg, Malawi, Malaysia, Mali, Malta, Mauritania, Mauritius, Morocco, Mozambique, Myanmar,  Namibia, Nepal, Nicaragua, Niger, Nigeria, Norway, Oman, Pakistan, Paraguay, Peru, Philippines, Qatar, Russian  Federation, Saint Lucia, Saint Vincent and the Grenadines, Saudi Arabia, Senegal, Serbia, Seychelles, Slovenia,  Somalia, South Africa, Spain, Sri Lanka, Sudan, Suriname, Syrian Arab Republic, Tunisia, Turkey, United Arab Emirates,  United Republic of Tanzania, Uruguay, Uzbekistan, Venezuela (Bolivarian Republic of), Viet Nam, Yemen, Zimbabwe;  Against: Australia, Canada, Czech Republic, Germany, Israel, Lithuania, Netherlands, Palau, Panama, Samoa,  Solomon Islands, Sweden, United States of America, Vanuatu;  Abstention: Albania, Andorra, Bahamas, Barbados, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Bulgaria, Burundi, Cameroon,  Cape Verde, Colombia, Cook Islands, Côte d’Ivoire, Croatia, Denmark, Estonia, Fiji, Georgia, Haiti, Hungary, Italy,  Jamaica, Japan, Kiribati, Latvia, Liberia, Mexico, Monaco, Montenegro, Nauru, New Zealand, Papua New Guinea,  Poland, Portugal, Republic of Korea, Republic of Moldova, Romania, Rwanda, Saint Kitts and Nevis, San Marino,  Singapore, Slovakia, Switzerland, Thailand, the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, Togo, Tonga, Trinidad and  Tobago, Tuvalu, Uganda, Ukraine, United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, Zambia;  Voting rights suspended: Antigua and Barbuda, Central African Republic, Comoros, Dominica, Guinea-Bissau,  Marshall Islands, Micronesia (Federated States of), São Tome and Principe, Sierra Leone;  Absent: Eritrea, Ethiopia, Guyana, Madagascar, Maldives, Mongolia, Niue, South Sudan, Swaziland, Tajikistan,  Timor-Leste, Turkmenistan.
58. Le Secrétaire:   Le vote est terminé.
59. The President:   Ladies and gentlemen, the vote is now finished and the Secretariat is counting the votes. While we are waiting  for the results, let me remind you again that, according to Rule 85, paragraph 1(a) of the Rules of Procedure, the  decision that has been just voted requires a two-thirds majority of the Member States present and voting.  The meeting is suspended while the votes are counted.
60. The President:   Your Excellencies, ladies and gentlemen, the votes have now been counted. Here is the result: number of  Members entitled to vote: one hundred and eighty-five; number of Members present and voting: one hundred and  seventy-three; number of abstentions: 52; majority required: 81; votes in favour: 107 (applause); votes against: 14.  Ladies and gentlemen, the General Conference has voted to adopt the draft resolution and decided to admit Palestine  as a Member of UNESCO. (Applause) Your Excellencies, ladies and gentlemen, let me congratulate Palestine on behalf  of the General Conference for its admission to membership of UNESCO.  Statements in explanation of vote  Déclarations en explication du vote  Declaraciones en explicación de voto  Заявления по мотивам голосования  في إطار تعلال التصويتمدلى بها بااةات    对投票的解释性发言
61. The President:   Let me share with you just a few thoughts as the President of the General Conference. We are here in the home  of cultural diplomacy. I myself see our world as a global cultural space, a multilayered treasure. The process of  inspiration followed by the creativity of people working together is to me the most beautiful aspect of this varied cultural  space and if we truly believe that diversity in thoughts, ideas and cultures is a source of inspiration and not a burden, we  can make the world together a better place. I would like to remind everybody that the role of Members of UNESCO is to  endeavour to overcome existing divisions and differences, to build a better future for our children, a future of peace and  prosperity. And now we come to the statements in explanation of vote. Ladies and gentlemen, Member States who now  wish to do so may request the floor to make a statement or explain their vote. Each speaker will have two minutes. After  that, I will give the floor to the representative of Palestine and, at the very end, I will ask the Director-General to make her  statement. Before I give you the floor, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to make an appeal to all speakers to respect  this solemn moment, as well as UNESCO as the house of culture and dialogue. I would like to give the floor to the United  States of America.
62.1 Mr Killion (United States of America):  Thank you, Madam President. The United States has voted against Resolution 9.1 because we cannot accept  Palestine’s premature admission as a full Member to a United Nations specialized agency such as UNESCO. No nation  is more committed to the quest for peace between the Israelis and Palestinians than the American people. As President  Obama said in May, “A lasting peace will involve two States for two peoples; Israel as a Jewish State and the homeland  for the Jewish people, and the State of Palestine as the homeland for the Palestinian people; each State enjoying self- determination, mutual recognition, and peace.” The United States has been very clear about the need for a two-State  solution to the Israeli-Palestinian conflict, but the only path to the Palestinian State that we all seek is through direct
313  negotiations. There are no shortcuts, and we believe efforts such as the one we have witnessed today are  counterproductive.
62.2 Madam President, President Obama has made strong multilateral engagement across the United Nations  system – including at UNESCO – a top priority and a core aspect of United States foreign policy. We are here in  UNESCO today because the contributions it continues to make – including its mission of building peace; promoting  education, culture and science; and its praiseworthy focus on Africa and on women and girls – are so very important to  the United States. However, we recognize that this action today complicates our ability to support UNESCO’s  programmes; there are other ways of promoting the cause of the Palestinian people that would not have involved  seeking premature membership of UNESCO. We sincerely regret that the strenuous and well-intentioned efforts of many  delegations to avoid this result fell short.
62.3 Madam President, let there be no doubt, the United States remains deeply committed to UNESCO and its noble  mission to build peace in the minds of men and women. Despite the challenges ahead, we pledge to continue our efforts  to find ways to support and strengthen the important work of this Organization. Thank you, Madam President.
63. The President:  Thank you very much, Your Excellency, for your statement. And now I would like to give the floor to India. Your  Excellency, the floor is yours.
64. Mr Oberoi (India):  Thank you, Madam President. I speak with a sense of history, with a sense of responsibility and a sense of  constructive anticipation. I speak on behalf of the Group of 77 and China. The Group of 77 and China welcomes the  affirmative and significant vote in favour of Palestine and welcomes Palestine to the UNESCO family. The Group  believes that this will strengthen the inclusiveness of UNESCO and enhance its role as a platform for discussion and  dialogue, as a place where ideas and thoughts mingle in a common and just cause in the promotion and furtherance of  peace. Thank you, Madam President.
65. The President:  Thank you very much, Your Excellency, for your statement. I give the floor to Mexico.
(66) Mr de Icaza (Mexico) (translation from the Spanish):    Thank you Madam President. The international community has made enormous efforts to achieve lasting peace in  the Middle East, taking into account all the aspects of the conflict between Palestinians and Israelis. The United Nations, the  countries that have responsibilities in the region and the States of the region have committed themselves fully to this  complicated task. Despite all this, the conflict persists and the themes that could attain a comprehensive and lasting solution  have not been resolved. These themes would lead to the creation of a sovereign and independent, politically and economically  viable Palestinian State, living in peace with Israel within safe and internationally recognized borders. This goal has always  been shared and promoted by Mexico and we will continue to support all initiatives leading to this solution as we firmly believe  that this is the only way to substantially change the living conditions of Palestinians and Israelis alike. There should be no  doubt that Mexico fully supports the Palestinian cause and the legitimate aspirations of the people. The Palestinian request we  have just considered should be understood from the wider perspective of other processes under way inside and outside the  United Nations. In this precise moment, Security Council members are debating Palestine’s request to join the United Nations  following an initiative introduced at the end of September. At the same time, members of the Quartet are working with both  parties so that in three months’ time, concrete proposals can be made. Although we understand the reasons behind  Palestine’s request to join UNESCO, my delegation considers that it would have been preferable to give priority to those  processes before determining the advantages of submitting this draft resolution. In Mexico’s opinion, UNESCO is not a  competent forum in which to attain the comprehensive and lasting solution that we all desire. Moreover, we believe that the  decision adopted today could disrupt other initiatives that are being carried out to resolve this long-term conflict once and for  all. Consequently, Mexico decided to abstain from voting on the draft resolution. Thank you very much.
67. The President:  Thank you very much. And now I would like to give the floor to the Ambassador of Israel.
68. Mr Barkan (Israel):  Thank you very much. Madam President, Madam Director-General, Madam Chair of the Executive Board,  distinguished delegates, this resolution of the General Conference is a tragedy for the idea of UNESCO and a great  disservice to international law and to chances for peace. In UNESCO, we have twice expressed our severe  disagreement with its content, most recently in the speech of Minister Sa’ar here last Thursday. UNESCO deals in  science, not science fiction. However, a large number of States, though most emphatically less than two thirds of the  Member States of this Organization, have adopted a science fiction version of reality by admitting a non-existent State to  the science Organization. We are grateful to those who wisely supported reality and would not be dragged into this  fiction. The supporters forced on UNESCO a political subject, outside its competence, refusing to render the United  Nations the respect it deserves by waiting, not a very long time, for its decision. With eyes wide open, they are forcing a  drastic cut in the contributions to the Organization. This cut will severely curtail its positive work and may also lead to  severe politicization of its programmes, tarnishing its image for many years to come. It is a sad day for any organization  when it decides to disconnect itself from reality. It sows the seeds for its potential implosion. That is, unfortunately, what  has happened here today. Thank you.
69. The President:   Thank you very much, Your Excellency, for your statement. Now I give the floor to Sweden.
70. Mr Ahnlid (Sweden):   Thank you Madam President. I would like to make the following explanation of our vote on the resolution before  us today. Sweden completely understands the aspiration of Palestine to become a Member of UNESCO. Sweden has  long been deeply committed to the international efforts towards achieving comprehensive peace in the Middle East and  the two-State solution with an independent, contiguous and viable State of Palestine living side by side in peace and  security with the State of Israel. We believe that such a solution can only be reached through negotiations. We therefore  strongly welcome the Quartet’s result-oriented approach with clear expectations of concrete proposals and timelines for  this endeavour. Sweden has long been a major partner of Palestinian State-building and provider of assistance to the  Palestinian people. We congratulate Palestine that the ad hoc liaison committee’s assessment is that the Palestinian  institutions are above the threshold of a functioning State. Sweden takes note of the United Nations application which is  now before the Security Council. Our vote on the draft resolution today has to do with its timing, not its substance. It  should be viewed from the perspective of the urgency we attach to reaching a two-State solution within the timeframe set  by the Quartet. It does not in any way prejudge the position that Sweden might take if the question of the status of  Palestine is brought before the United Nations General Assembly. Thank you, Madam President.
71. The President:   Thank you very much. Now I give the floor to Pakistan.
72. Ms Inayatullah (Pakistan):   For over six decades Palestinians have proven to be superb human beings but have regrettably remained  without their rights. Today I shall humbly laugh; this inexcusable wrong has been righted. Today they stand proud in the  committee of nations, and UNESCO, in exercise of its mandate, has enabled this to happen. Madam President, I hasten  to add that Palestine’s admission as a Member State places a profound responsibility on all three organs of UNESCO  and I refer to our Constitution; I refer to creating peace in the minds of men and women in Palestine and Israel. I invite  and request UNESCO’s leadership, three magnificent women, to immediately put in place an initiative with and through  youth, taking them up on their Youth Forum Declaration. This is an idea whose time has come. Madam President, for  peace in the world, the momentum of today’s momentous decision must be sustained. Common sights of a Palestine of  defaced mosques, defaced schools, burnt hamlets, death and destruction must, from today, be a thing of the past.  Democracy and majority rule has prevailed; the statehood bid of President Mahmoud Abbas has been realized, the  honour of Palestinians stands vindicated and Pakistan dedicates the success of which it is proud to be a part to the  inimitable hero, the one and only Yasser Arafat. We do so in the name of our late Zulfiqar Ali Bhutto who used his  intellect and political skills and recognized international standing as an untiring advocate of the just cause of the  Palestinians for their homeland. Thank you.
73. The President:   Thank you very much for your statement. I give the floor to the Russian Federation.
(74.1) Mr Gatilov (Russian Federation) (translation from the Russian):   Thank you. The position of the Russian Federation on the admission of Palestine as a member of UNESCO has  always been consistent and pragmatic. We consider that examination of the Palestinian claim should have taken place without  unnecessary politicization and artificial delay. As regards Russia’s position of principle concerning recognition of the  Palestinian State, it is very well known.  We should like to recall, once more, that we recognized the State of Palestine more  than 20 years ago, and its embassy has been operational in Moscow since 1990. It is with satisfaction that we note that the  Palestinian representatives are clearly proceeding on the assumption that their approach to the United Nations and other  international structures is not an alternative to the achievement of a negotiated settlement with Israel. This is crucial, as only  negotiations can ensure the establishment of a Palestinian State with full territorial integrity, which would live in security and  peace side by side with Israel and the other countries in the region. This is, specifically, the thrust of the ministerial statement  of the Middle East Quartet adopted on 23 September 2011 in New York.
(74.2) On the whole, the improvement of the situation in the Middle East could have essentially  contributed to the  promotion of the negotiating process on a Middle East settlement, whose basic parameters are defined and set in resolutions  of the United Nations Security Council, the Madrid Principles and the Arab Peace Initiative. We will be guided by these  approaches in New York as well on consideration of this issue by the United Nations. Thank you.
(76.1) Mr Ramadan (Egypt) (translation from the Arabic):   Madam President, allow me at the outset, and on behalf of the Arab States group, to congratulate the General  Conference of UNESCO and the Organization on this important, just and historic decision, which affirms that the Member  States of the Organization as a whole stand on the right side of history. The adoption of this resolution not only demonstrates  the neutrality of the Organization and its upholding of the lofty principles that it has defended and continues to defend, but also  UNESCO’s respect for the rules of political participation and democracy in decision-making at the international level, which  requires us all to look to the future and to move forward in shouldering our common responsibilities towards the Organization  and its objectives without politicization. Now, Madam President, allow me to make a short statement on behalf of the Non- Aligned Movement, which I shall deliver in English.  (The speaker continues in English)
76.2 Madam President, Egypt, in its capacity as Chair of the Non-Aligned Movement (NAM), would like to welcome  this historic decision of the General Conference to admit Palestine as a Member of our Organization. In this regard, we  would like to report the decision of NAM at its 16th Ministerial Conference in Bali at the end of May 2011. We, like other  groups and countries that supported the decision, believe that the membership of Palestine is a positive step forward  towards upholding the universal principles that UNESCO stands for, and should also be viewed as a contribution to the  realization of peace, stability and development. Thank you, Madam President.
77. The President:   Thank you very much. Now I give the floor now to Austria.
78. Ms Plassnik (Austria):   Madame la Directrice générale, the question of Palestinian membership of UNESCO has been debated  thoroughly within the European Union (EU). Austria very much regrets that we have not achieved a common EU position  on the matter. Austria’s yes vote today is a vote in favour of the Palestinian Authority and Palestinian people gaining full  access to the valuable work of UNESCO. We hereby underline that the application of Palestine for membership of the  United Nations is being dealt with by the Security Council according to the established procedures. Thank you.
79. The President:   Thank you very much, Your Excellency. Now I give the floor to Belgium.
80.1 Mme Chainaye (Belgique) :  Merci, Madame la Présidente. Aujourd’hui, une très large majorité des États membres de l’UNESCO, dont la  Belgique, a voté en faveur de l’admission de la Palestine à l’UNESCO. Elle devient donc membre à part entière de cette  Organisation.
80.2 Ceci reflète le fait que l’Autorité palestinienne a considérablement progressé sur la voie de la constitution d’un  État, grâce, notamment, aux contributions de l’Union européenne et de mon pays.
80.3 L’admission à l’UNESCO n’est cependant qu’une étape sur cette voie. Les semaines qui viennent s’annoncent  cruciales pour faire démarrer un processus de véritables négociations entre la Palestine et Israël. Pour la Belgique, il n’y  a pas d’alternative aux négociations, aussi difficiles soient-elles et en dépit du fait que les positions des deux parties  restent très éloignées. Israël et la Palestine doivent pouvoir vivre côte à côte en paix et en sécurité.
80.4 La Belgique espère que, dans les mois qui viennent, la Palestine démontrera qu’elle est un membre  responsable et fiable de l'UNESCO. Enfin, la Belgique appelle tous les États membres à maintenir leur appui aux actions  que mène l’UNESCO dans le cadre de sa mission en faveur de la construction de la paix, notamment dans les domaines  de l’éducation et du dialogue interculturel, et réitère son soutien sans faille à l’action de l’UNESCO en ce sens. Je vous  remercie.
(82.1) Mr Eliagoubi (Libya) (translation from the Arabic):   Madam President, Excellencies, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of my country, Libya, I should like to present my  congratulations to the General Conference for having adopted a resolution allowing Palestine to join UNESCO. It is clear that  the decision is not directed against anyone; rather, it is recognition of a human right, the right of the Palestinian people to  education, culture and knowledge, the same as for all the other peoples of the world. Palestine’s becoming a member of  UNESCO before it becomes a member of the United Nations is nothing new; other States have joined UNESCO before joining  the United Nations.
(82.2) Excellencies, ladies and gentlemen, we believe firmly that accepting Palestine as a member of UNESCO would  provide support for a human right, and no doubt support for the peace process in the region, this process that has faltered for  long decades. At the same time, this represents a faithful translation of the principles of UNESCO and a practical application of  the right of peoples to education, culture and knowledge. I say once again: Palestine’s joining UNESCO is not only in support  of peace in the region; it is a reaffirmation of world peace and justice for a people which has suffered too long from exclusion.  Thank you Madam President.
83. The President:   Thank you very much. I give the floor to Germany.
84. Ms Nibbeling-Wießnig (Germany):   Thank you very much, Madam President, Madam Director-General, for allowing me to explain why Germany  could not support the draft resolution submitted under item 9.1, “Request for the admission of Palestine to UNESCO”.  The basic request for membership has been submitted for a number of years and until now the Executive Board and the  General Conference were wise enough not to push for a decision. This year, however, Palestine has also applied for full  United Nations membership. That application is now being examined by the Security Council of which Germany is a  member. As everybody knows, a decision has not been taken yet. On 23 September, the Quartet proposed a timetable  and framework for the resumption of negotiations. A first meeting of the Quartet took place a week ago. The next three  months will be crucial. We have called on all concerned to do everything possible to foster this process and to avoid  everything that might interfere with or prejudice the outcome of this process. Our goals remain to see a Palestinian State  alongside a secure State of Israel. Germany has repeatedly asked for the postponement of the decision on UNESCO  membership for Palestine while deliberations in the United Nations Security Council are ongoing and the Quartet is in a  sensitive phase. We regret that our request to postpone has not met with sufficient support. Germany fully understands  the Palestinian wish to obtain UNESCO membership as soon as possible and has been looking forward to welcoming  Palestine as a Member of UNESCO at the appropriate time and under the right circumstances. Germany‘s support for  the two-State solution is not in doubt. I hope delegations will understand that, at this point in time and for the reasons  mentioned, Germany had to vote against the proposal. This vote should by no means be interpreted as prejudging our  position in other fora; and we are confident that we all together here will do our best in a spirit of cooperation to ensure  that the functioning of our UNESCO will not be jeopardized by the decision of the General Conference. Thank you very  much.
85. The President:   Thank you very much. Now I give the floor to Lebanon.
(86) Ms Fadlallah (Lebanon) translation from the Arabic:   Thank you Madam President. This is an historic moment in which we witness the admission of Palestine to our  Organization as a full member, in consolidation of the principles of solidarity, justice and freedom consecrated in our  Constitution, these principles which we all strive to put into practice. Venerable Palestine, with its history, heritage, culture and  science, has today found the right place for mutual cooperation and close intellectual and moral solidarity. I should like to  congratulate Palestine, on behalf of Lebanon and in my own capacity, on its membership in our Organization. I am confident  that it will contribute effectively to reaffirming the venerable principles of the Organization and to consolidating its cultural,  educational and scientific programmes. This is an historic moment in the life of our Organization, which has now afforded  Palestine the opportunity of joining it at this General Conference, and thereby granting a pivotal role to culture in the building  and consolidation of peace in people’s souls and minds. Thank you.
87. The President:   Thank you very much. I give the floor to New Zealand.
88.1 Ms Hallum (New Zealand):   Thank you, Madam President. New Zealand supports increased Palestinian participation in international bodies,  in particular as a way to further build on Prime Minister Fayyad’s State-building agenda and in recognition of the general  success of this agenda. New Zealand supports the aspirations of the Palestinian people to have a representative voice in  international organizations. We also recognize that a number of countries have become Members of UNESCO prior to or  without becoming United Nations Member States. It was our preference, however, that the issue of Palestine’s United  Nations membership be addressed first in the United Nations Security Council before UNESCO decided on Palestinian  membership.
88.2 Membership of the United Nations and membership of UNESCO are of course different and separate issues.  Furthermore, we wish to make clear that New Zealand’s abstention here today does not indicate how we might vote on  future related issues in New York. We continue to urge all parties to give every chance for the necessary compromises to  be reached so that renewed negotiations might have an opportunity for success. We hope and expect that the broader  question of Palestine taking its place within all international organizations can be resolved in the near future. Thank you,  Madam President.
89. The President:   Thank you very much for your statement. And now I give the floor to Sri Lanka.
90.1 Mr Jayatilleka (Sri Lanka):   Thank you, Madam President, Madam Director-General. One of our distinguished colleagues reminded us that  André Malraux said that Man is what he does. May I add that this is also true of international organizations. The Open  UNESCO exhibit has a blue disk on the wall by the exhibit’s end, which quotes the great Asian statesperson Jawaharlal  Nehru who said that “UNESCO is the conscience of the world community”. And today UNESCO has acted precisely as  the conscience of the world community. Jawaharlal did not say that UNESCO is the conscience of the world community if  that is okay with New York or if it flies over the hill or if it plays in Peoria. UNESCO is the conscience of the world  community. This we have shown by what we have done.
90.2 Madam President, there has been a specious argument here that what we have done is somehow contradictory  to the bid for a negotiated settlement and efforts going on elsewhere, such as in New York. I fail to see the logic, Madam  President. I think that by showing that Palestine’s independence is an idea whose time has come and that this has broad  recognition in the world community, we have in fact bolstered all the efforts which we respect towards a negotiated peace  and towards the recognition that is sought in the Security Council. I would conclude by quoting something that Yael  Dayan, herself a soldier in the Six-Day War and the daughter of the great soldier-diplomat Moshe Dayan, after whom I  have the good fortune of having been named by my parents, said to Russian television yesterday when she was  interviewed on whether or not the Palestinian bid to seek recognition in various arms of the United Nations system was  helpful to the bid for peace. And Yael Dayan, the soldier-daughter of a soldier, said “Yes, it is helpful because if national  efforts are somehow blocked or retarded as they seem to be, then the international effort becomes all the more  important”. So I think we have made a positive contribution to a negotiated peace today. Thank you.
(92) Mr Al-Drees (Saudi Arabia) (translation from the Arabic):    Thank you, Madam President. I should like to congratulate UNESCO before I congratulate Palestine. Today the head  of the newborn Palestine emerged from the womb of the world; the rest of the baby will come out at the United Nations in New  York in the next few days, God willing. Not only has Palestine been born; UNESCO, too, has been born anew. The hallmark of  UNESCO is the force of justice rather than the justice of force, which has been the dominant paradigm over the past few  decades. Today we find ourselves in the presence of the first fruit of the new humanism framework urged by Ms Irina Bokova  in her electoral campaign in 2009. This is the course that she traced in her campaign at that time. And now, Ms Bokova has  kept her electoral promise and is playing her neutral role by opening the democratic field to any State to enable it to become a  member of UNESCO. And this is what Palestine has done today and won. We have heard much from the Member States as  they speak of and commend the Arab Spring. I was wondering why these States which said “no” to Palestine wanted Palestine  to remain in the autumn rather than to enter the spring like the other Arab States. Without wishing to jump ahead of events, I  nevertheless say that if Palestine and the Arab States, or the Arab States group wished to hold a celebration of this occasion,  and I expect they will, we shall extend an invitation to those who said “no” before those who said “yes”, so that we may  reiterate and recover the spirit of the single UNESCO family, because we know that they did not say “no” because they hate  Palestine, but rather because they are obliged to say “no” as a result of external pressure beyond their control. On behalf of  the delegation of the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia, we congratulate Palestine once again on having obtained full membership in  UNESCO, and we hope that this will be in support of the course of peace. Thank you.
93. The President:   Thank you very much for your statement, Your Excellency. And now I give the floor to Serbia.
94. Ms Tomić (Serbia):   Madam President, Serbia’s vote in favour of the draft resolution on the admission of Palestine to UNESCO is  consistent with its recognition of the State of Palestine, which dates back to the times of the former Yugoslavia, and in  accordance with relevant Security Council resolutions and the unequivocal support within the international community,  including the parties concerned, for the two-State solution to the Israeli-Palestinian conflict. Serbia was able to support  this draft also because the procedure for the admission of new Member States provided for in UNESCO’s Constitution  has been fully adhered to and that the prerequisites have been fully met. Serbia has therefore joined the overwhelming  majority of UNESCO Member States in supporting the admission of Palestine to the Organization. Thank you.
95. The President:   Thank you very much. And now I give the floor to Portugal.
96. Mr Castro Mendes (Portugal):   Thank you, Madam President. In our delegation’s view, today’s vote comes at an untimely moment. At the  Security Council the Palestinian application for United Nations membership is being assessed and discussed in a  meaningful way, and these discussions have not yet come to an end. In this regard, Portugal is assuming its special  responsibilities as a non-permanent member of the Security Council whereby we are committed to promoting a  sustainable compromise. We firmly believe that until the debate is over, we should avoid taking any action or position  that would prejudge or in any way influence the result of such discussions. That was the sense of the approach we have  been adopting in order to find the solution that would have avoided the need for this vote at this particular juncture. This  approach reflects the position and call by the European Union High Representative Catherine Ashton that we very much  supported. We believe that the solution for the peace process between Israelis and Palestinians can only be achieved  through negotiations in accordance with the well-known principles, timeframe and roadmap defined by the Quartet and  endorsed by the European Union. This is the track on which we must responsibly concentrate all our work. Since the  efforts to resume negotiations are still ongoing, we abstain today together with a large group of European Union Member  States; but in the same vein and consistent with the action and purpose manifested by Portugal at the United Nations  General Assembly last September, it should be noted that we would never have voted against. Portugal has always  stood for a sovereign, independent, democratic and contiguous, viable State of Palestine and the State of Israel living  side by side in peace and security. Thank you, Madam President.
97. The President:   Thank you, Your Excellency. I give the floor to Denmark.
98. Mr Dam Kristensen (Denmark):   Thank you, Madam President. Denmark is a strong supporter of Palestinian rights and aspirations for statehood  within the framework of international law. We support Palestinians, Palestine’s participation in the important work of  UNESCO, including the efforts to ensure the protection of heritage located in Palestinian territory. Denmark believes that  the issue of United Nations membership should be properly dealt with in New York before turning to specialized agencies  and other United Nations bodies. Equally, Denmark believes that the ongoing efforts by the Quartet following its  statement on 23 September are essential for getting negotiations restarted. For these reasons, Denmark has decided to  abstain; but we do call on all Members to continue their support for UNESCO’s mission. This is about peace, identity,
319  culture, heritage and freedom of expression. We should do everything we can to prevent damage to the very United  Nations organization which places these themes at the heart of its work. Thank you, Madam President.
99. The President:   Thank you very much. I give the floor to China.
(100) Ms Shi (China) (translation from the Chinese):   Thank you, Madam President. China warmly congratulates Palestine’s admission as a UNESCO Member. I endorse  the intervention of the Chair of the Group of 77 and China, Ambassador of India, and I endorse your speech, Madam President.  China has always supported the Palestinian people in their just cause of the restoration of their legitimate rights. We believe  that the foundation of an independent State is the legitimate and inalienable right of the Palestinian people. It is also the  foundation and prerequisite for the peaceful coexistence of Palestine and Israel, which will contribute to peace and stability in  the Middle East and to regional and international cooperation among countries of the Middle East, in terms of education,  science and culture within UNESCO’s fields of competence. Hence, I call for the unity of all Member States in order to build a  harmonious and peaceful world, the noble mission entrusted to us by history. Thank you.
101. The President:   Thank you very much, Your Excellency. Now I give the floor to the Czech Republic.
102. Ms Kaiserová (Czech Republic):   Thank you, Madam President. Allow me to explain why the Czech Republic decided to vote against the  resolution on admission of Palestine to membership of UNESCO. The Czech Republic reiterates its support for  negotiations leading to Palestine statehood, all efforts and steps to that end and its readiness when appropriate to  recognize the Palestinian State. The Czech Republic is of the opinion that the issue of United Nations membership  should be properly dealt with in New York before turning to specialized agencies and other United Nations bodies.  Equally we believe that ongoing efforts by the Quartet are essential for getting negotiations seriously started. We deem  the Palestinian initiative in UNESCO ill-timed and to be further complicating the process aimed at restarting negotiations  between the parties as proposed in New York by the Quartet declaration of 23 September and pending a Security  Council decision on the Palestinian request for admission to the United Nations. Palestinian statehood should not be an  issue resolved by unilateral steps. We refuse to accept such an approach. We call upon both sides to avoid steps that  run counter to the Quartet’s efforts to restart negotiations. We especially deplore the acts of violence constituted by the  renewed rocket attacks from Gaza this past weekend. Our decision today should by no means be interpreted as  prejudging our future position. Thank you.
103. The President:   Thank you very much, Your Excellency, for your statement. Now I give the floor to Cuba.
(104) Ms Flórez Prida (Cuba) (translation from the Spanish):   Thank you Madam President. Madam Director-General, above all, my delegation wishes to support the declarations  by the delegations of India and Egypt in the name of the Group of 77 and China, and the Non-Aligned Movement respectively.  Madam President, Madam Director-General, today, our Organization has witnessed an historic moment. The admission of  Palestine as a full member of UNESCO, supported by an overwhelming majority of Member States present at this Conference,  reaffirms the universal character of UNESCO and rectifies a historical injustice inflicted on the long-suffering Palestinian  people. This decision also confirms the leadership and visibility of UNESCO in the international sphere. Cuba extends a warm  welcome to Palestine. Thank you very much.
105. The President:   Thank you very much, Your Excellency, for your statement. Now I give the floor to Indonesia.
106. Mr Rachman (Indonesia):   Bismillāh ir-rahmān ir-rahīm. As-salāmu ‘alaikum wa-rahmatu llāhi wa-barakātuh (In the name of God, the  Merciful, the Compassionate. Peace and the mercy and blessings of God be upon you). Indonesia would like to  congratulate UNESCO. God has created mankind with different races, different languages and different opinions so that  people will make efforts to understand each other. Today, Madam President, UNESCO has answered and made the  effort to understand mankind and for people to understand each other. Indonesia congratulates UNESCO for such a  remarkable and valuable historic moment accomplished together, and the responsibility we have taken for the coming  generation. Al-ḥamdu lillāh (All thanks and praise be to God). Indonesia trusts that UNESCO will be successful in the
320  future in achieving peace as our responsibility on this planet. Thank you very much. As-salāmu ‘alaikum wa-rahmatu llāhi  wa-barakātuh (Peace and the mercy and blessings of God be upon you).
107. The President:   Thank you very much. I now give the floor to the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland.
108. Mr Sudders (United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland):   Thank you, Madam President. The United Kingdom calls for the urgent resumption of negotiations that will lead  within an agreed timeframe to a two-State solution with the State of Israel and an independent, democratic viable State  of Palestine, living side by side in peace and security. We recognize that with this vote the Palestinian people are  sending a message to the international community that that process must be speeded up. In the context of UNESCO we  support initiatives that ensure the protection of Palestinian cultural and natural heritage and enhance education  cooperation with Palestine. Nonetheless, we still believe that the issue of United Nations membership should be properly  dealt with in New York. For this reason, we decided to abstain. This vote was about the here and now and must not be  read as giving any indication of our position in another place or at another time. We call on all Members of UNESCO to  now pause for reflection before taking any precipitous action here or elsewhere. As my Danish colleague noted, at the  centre of this issue are themes of peace, identity, heritage, culture and freedom of expression. We must be absolutely  sure in moving forward from this decision that we avoid damaging the very United Nations Organization that places those  themes at the heart of its work.
109. The President:   Thank you very much, Your Excellency. Now I give the floor to the Bolivarian Republic of Venezuela.
(110) Mr Bonilla (Bolivarian Republic of Venezuela) (translation from the Spanish):   Thank you, Madam President. For the Bolivarian Government, the decision that UNESCO has made today is a  cause for celebration. We believe that it is highly important to reaffirm that today, this body has reconciled with a widespread  desire of humanity. When I was listening to different countries voting in favour of Palestine’s admission, what I heard was the  joy of millions and millions of boys, girls and teenagers who believe in a world of peace, justice and equality. With this vote,  UNESCO has confirmed that education based on social justice is the surest guarantor of peace. Welcome, Palestine, to this  Organization.
111. The President:   Thank you very much. Now I give the floor to Singapore.
112. Mr Murthy (Singapore):   Madam President, while we can understand and sympathize with the desire of the Palestinians to participate in  UNESCO, we should not brush aside the fact that this application for UNESCO membership comes at a particularly  contentious time for the United Nations as a whole and indeed for the Middle East generally. This position cannot be  considered independently of its broader political context. The question that we therefore asked ourselves was whether  this position at this point in time would help or hinder UNESCO’s primary mission of promoting education, science and  culture. The answer was to us obvious: that it has already divided and politicized the Organization is evident from what  we heard when the resolution was considered by UNESCO’s Executive Board. Furthermore, this resolution was  submitted just after Palestine had applied for full membership of the United Nations. That application is still being  considered by the Security Council in New York, and we understand that there is a possibility of some action on this  matter in the General Assembly as well. We cannot ignore the fact that UNESCO’s position would be a political  judgement that would have implications for Palestine’s application for United Nations membership and was, perhaps,  intended to influence that application. It is no part of UNESCO’s mandate to play such a political role. For these reasons,  Singapore decided to abstain on the vote to admit Palestine to UNESCO. Thank you, Madam President.
113. The President:   Thank you very much. I give the floor to Argentina.
(114) Mr Estrella (Argentina) (translation from the Spanish):   Thank you very much. Argentina has a profound and longstanding relationship with UNESCO, and its steady and  loyal membership is only so because of the principles upon which this institution, so dear to us all, was established. I know,  admire and love the history of the Jewish people very much. The Jewish people’s history is much better known to Argentina  than that of the Palestinian people. It was in this house, in the year 1988 that the Director-General at the time appointed me  UNESCO Goodwill Ambassador, thus enabling me to meet Yitzhak Rabin, Shimon Peres and Arafat, all three of them. On that  occasion, Arafat, I recall, embraced his Jewish brothers saying, “We are the three sons of Abraham”, which is certainly true.  He said, “A Christian hand is missing, my wife is a Christian”. Then, after that, UNESCO put me in charge of one of the  programmes as Goodwill Ambassador to the Middle East, and that is how I learned more about the Palestinian people’s  tragedy, a people under occupation. That is how I gained first-hand experience of a situation that is less well known than the  dramatic story of the Jewish people; I did it by chatting with the Palestinians in camps, working with children, making them sing,  making music for them. Therefore, I cannot consider it premature that this institution, which is essential for humanists like us  throughout the world, has chosen to give the green light to the dear Palestinian people so that they can become a real State.  And I am sure that Israel’s peace will be guaranteed. My brother, colleague and poet from Saudi Arabia said this in a much  more charming way than I did. However, I believe that peace is possible and that we need to give thought - with UNESCO first  in line and leading the way – to the struggle for peace in the Middle East, for safety in Israel and for the existence of a real  State for an occupied people. Thank you.
115. The President:   Thank you very much, Your Excellency, for your statement. Now I give the floor to France.
116.1 M. de Canson (France) :   Madame la Présidente, le 21 septembre dernier, devant l’Assemblée générale des Nations Unies, le Président  de la République française, M. Sarkozy, présentait la vision de la France pour avancer sur le chemin de la paix au  Proche-Orient, pour avancer sur le chemin d’une solution au conflit israélo-palestinien.
116.2 Il proposait que l’Assemblée générale élabore une résolution permettant à la Palestine de rehausser son statut  au sein de l’ONU en devenant un État non membre observateur. Nous continuons à penser qu’une telle résolution  constituerait une avancée légitime vers la reconnaissance d’un État palestinien, sans créer, comme nous pouvons le  craindre d’une démarche au Conseil de sécurité, une confrontation diplomatique majeure qui conduirait à l’impasse.
116.3 Aujourd’hui, la question qui était posée était de savoir si la communauté internationale répondait oui ou non à la  demande d’adhésion de la Palestine à l’UNESCO. Certes, nous aurions préféré que cette question fût posée après le  traitement du sujet par l’Assemblée générale à New York. Mais, à partir du moment où elle l’est aujourd’hui, il nous faut  prendre nos responsabilités et répondre sur le fond. Sur le fond, la France dit oui. Oui, la Palestine a le droit de devenir  membre de l’UNESCO.
116.4 La Palestine a le droit de devenir membre de l’UNESCO, cette organisation dont la vocation est d’œuvrer à la  généralisation d’une culture de la paix au sein de la communauté internationale. Une telle adhésion entre pleinement  dans la logique de la démarche à l’Assemblée générale des Nations Unies proposée par le Président de la République.
116.5 La France a toujours été, est aujourd’hui et restera demain du côté de la paix. Elle soutient les responsables  palestiniens, au premier rang desquels le Président de l’Autorité palestinienne, dans leurs efforts pour l’édification d’un  État palestinien vivant côte à côte, en paix et en sécurité avec l’État d’Israël.
116.6 Le Président de la République l’a souligné le 21 septembre devant l’Assemblée générale des Nations Unies : si  quiconque, à travers le monde, menaçait l’existence d’Israël, la France serait immédiatement et totalement aux côtés  d’Israël. Nous le disons et le répétons. C’est avant tout par le biais de négociations entre Israéliens et Palestiniens que  l’objectif de deux États vivant en paix et en sécurité sera atteint. Nous appelons les deux parties à faire tous les  compromis nécessaires pour que ces négociations puissent reprendre sans délai. Je vous remercie.
117. The President:   Thank you very much for your statement. Now I give the floor to Switzerland.
118.1 M. Imhoof (Suisse) :  Merci, Madame la Présidente de la Conférence générale. La Palestine vient d’adhérer à l’UNESCO. La Suisse  le comprend comme démontrant l’intention de la Palestine de participer et de contribuer à la mission de l’Organisation,  celle d’une culture de la paix, d’une compréhension des diversités culturelles par l’éducation, la science et le  rapprochement des cultures.
118.2 Le débat sur le statut de la Palestine constitue un enjeu politique majeur, en particulier pour le Moyen-Orient,  dont il ne faudrait pas préjuger l’issue. Si la Suisse s’est abstenue lors de ce vote, c’est qu’elle considère que le débat  n’a pas à être mené dans le cadre d’une organisation à vocation technique comme l’UNESCO. Il appartient davantage  aux organes politiques de l’Organisation des Nations Unies de considérer la question.
118.3 La Suisse continuera d’œuvrer pour que des négociations en vue de la création d’un État palestinien viable,  vivant côte à côte avec un État d’Israël et établi dans des frontières sûres et reconnues, conduisent à un règlement  durable de ce conflit. Merci, Madame la Présidente.
119. The President:   Merci beaucoup. And now I would like to give the floor to Norway.
120. Mr Eriksen (Norway):   Madam President, I will explain the Norwegian vote. Norway is a strong supporter of Palestinian rights and  aspirations for statehood within the framework of international law. Given the difficult circumstances in which the  Palestinians work to protect their cultural and natural heritage, we support initiatives that would ensure the protection of  this heritage in the Palestinian territory. Our vote, a yes, is consistent with the need to recognize the legitimacy of  Palestinian aspirations and needs as regards the protection of this heritage. Our national procedures to formally  recognize the State of Palestine are still pending. Norway supports the two-State solution, with Israel and Palestine living  side by side in peace within secure and recognized borders. A comprehensive, just and lasting peace can only be  achieved on the basis of a negotiated solution between the parties. Thank you, Madam President.
121. The President:   Thank you very much. Now I give the floor to Nicaragua.
(122) Ms Henríquez González (Nicaragua) (translation from the Spanish):   Thank you very much, Madam President. Madam President, Madam Director-General, when Nicaragua said “yes” to  the admission of Palestine to UNESCO, it added its voice to that of many other countries in favour of building peace and global  kinship, in favour of dialogue and cultural diversity, the right to education, culture and science, the pillars on which UNESCO  stands tall. Theses pillars should become, through an act of justice, the ever-growing support for the Palestinian people from  now on. Therefore, within the framework of these fundamental principles that guide our institution and international solidarity,  Nicaragua welcomes with satisfaction Palestine’s membership of UNESCO with hearty congratulations. Thank you very much.
123. The President:   Thank you very much. Now I give the floor to Japan.
124. Mr Kiso (Japan):   Thank you, Madam President. Please let me emphasize that Japan is and always has been deeply  understanding about the long-cherished aspiration of Palestine for statehood. However, Japan feels that the submission  of this particular resolution was premature when the request by Palestine for membership of the United Nations itself is  still being considered by the United Nations Security Council. UNESCO’s pre-empting the discussions at the United  Nations in this manner can further complicate matters and, therefore, is not deemed desirable. Under the circumstances,  Japan had no choice but to abstain. I will also add that Japan, as the second largest contributor to UNESCO, considers  the implications that this accession might have on UNESCO’s financial management in the months ahead to be a matter  of great concern. Thank you.
125. The President:   Thank you very much, Your Excellency, for your statement. Now I give the floor to the Netherlands.
126.1 Mr Zeldenrust (Netherlands):   Thank you, Madam President. The Netherlands wishes to record its concern about the vote we have just taken.  Full Palestinian membership at this point in time runs counter to the interests of UNESCO. It pre-empts the outcome of  deliberations in the Security Council on the Palestinian bid for full United Nations membership and will make the  negotiating process between Israel and the Palestinians more difficult. For any if not all these reasons, the Netherlands  believes that this General Conference should not have taken up the proposal at hand.
126.2 Let me make it clear that the Netherlands supports the Palestinian ambition to become a full Member of the  United Nations. This should happen as a result of a negotiation process between the parties themselves, to which end  initial and important steps were taken by the Quartet with the parties on 26 October. This should lead to the  establishment of a viable, democratic and peaceful Palestinian State and secure, internationally recognized Jewish State  of Israel living side by side in peace and security. The only way to get there is for the parties to immediately engage in  negotiations without preconditions and to abstain from unilateral steps that prejudge the outcome of these negotiations.  All efforts of the international community should be geared towards making negotiations happen rather than towards  making them more difficult. Unilateral steps will not get us closer to peace. This is not the time or the place for decisions  like the one at hand. The Netherlands endorses the timeframe outlined by the Quartet and we stand ready to assist  where we can. We are a major donor to the Palestinian Authority. Our message is simple and clear: negotiate. Thank  you, Madam President.
127. The President:   Thank you very much, Your Excellency, for your statement. Now I give the floor to Spain.
(128) Ms Garmendia Mendizábal (Spain) (translation from the Spanish):   After the speeches we have just heard, I would like to briefly mention and point out that as a Minister in Spain’s  government, I feel lucky to have been here today and very proud to have been a part of this significant and emotional moment  that we have shared. Spain would like to extend to the Palestinian people and authorities warm and heartfelt congratulations  for its admission to UNESCO. In Spain, we also regret that Europe has not reached a consensus on the matter; we will  continue to work towards this and trust that our responsibilities, especially after this vote, are able to increase the chances of  success of peace talks in the Middle East for the benefit of both Palestine and Israel. Thank you very much.
129. The President:   Thank you very much. Now I give the floor to Algeria.
130.1 M. Sbih (Algérie) :  Merci, Madame la Présidente. L’Algérie salue la décision historique de la 36e session de la Conférence  générale, qui consacre enfin l’admission de la Palestine en tant que membre à part entière de l’UNESCO.
130.2 Cette importante décision, votée à une majorité significative, constitue un acte de paix conforme aux idéaux et  objectifs de l’Organisation et représente une avancée majeure dans la reconnaissance attendue de la Palestine comme  État membre des Nations Unies. Je vous remercie.
131. The President:   Thank you very much. Now I give the floor to Australia.
132.1 Ms Kamath (Australia):   Thank you, Madam President. Australia strongly supports the aspirations of the Palestinian people for their own  State and believes the negotiated peace process between the parties is the way to achieve this. Our decision to vote  against reflects Australia’s strong concern that consideration of Palestinian membership of UNESCO is premature. The  matter of Palestinian membership of the United Nations has recently been placed before the United Nations Security  Council for its consideration. We should allow the United Nations Security Council process to run its course rather than  seek first to address this question in different United Nations fora.
132.2 Our decision also reflects our concern about the possible implications of the successful vote on UNESCO  funding. Australia has been a consistent supporter of the peace process. We have provided extensive support and  committed to over $300 million in humanitarian and development assistance during the next five years for the building of  the institutions of a future Palestinian State. Australia has made clear our strong support for efforts to achieve a  comprehensive and enduring peace based on a negotiated two-State solution. We urge both parties to return to direct  talks. Thank you.
133. The President:   Thank you very much for your statement. Now I give the floor to Canada.
134.1 M. Bachand (Canada) :  Merci, Madame la Présidente. Le Canada souscrit sans réserve à l’objectif d’une paix globale, juste et durable  entre Israël et le peuple palestinien, y compris la création d’un État palestinien viable et indépendant, coexistant avec  Israël dans la paix et la sécurité grâce à un accord négocié entre les parties.
134.2 Toutefois, le Canada est profondément préoccupé par les initiatives unilatérales de l’Autorité palestinienne pour  devenir membre des organes des Nations Unies, y compris l’UNESCO. Le Canada est l’un des principaux partisans du  processus de paix et a mis en œuvre un programme d’aide quinquennal de 300 millions de dollars destinés à l’Autorité  palestinienne pour renforcer les capacités dans les domaines clés de la réforme du secteur de la justice et de la sécurité  et favoriser une croissance économique durable.
134.3 Le Canada fournit également une aide humanitaire en Cisjordanie et dans la bande de Gaza. Il a toujours  soutenu que la seule façon de parvenir à un État palestinien était de négocier un accord avec Israël. Des dispositions  relatives à la sécurité aux frontières doivent être négociées. Des solutions aux questions des réfugiés et de Jérusalem  doivent être trouvées.
134.4 Contourner le processus de négociation bilatérale comme on tente de le faire par cette démarche est inutile et  nuisible aux efforts visant à trouver un règlement négocié. Suggérer que les Palestiniens peuvent obtenir un État sans  négocier un accord de paix avec Israël mine le processus de paix. Le Canada regrette profondément que l’Autorité  palestinienne ait choisi de demander un statut de membre de l’UNESCO plutôt que de chercher à obtenir un règlement  négocié avec Israël.
134.5 Le Canada regrette aussi profondément la décision de la Conférence générale de l’UNESCO d’approuver la  demande palestinienne de devenir membre de l’UNESCO. De telles actions ne contribueront pas à faire progresser le  processus de paix, ne changeront pas les faits sur le terrain et ne rapprocheront pas les vues. Pour ces raisons, le  Canada a voté contre cette demande. Le Canada exhorte les parties à reprendre les pourparlers de paix directs sans  tarder et sans condition préalable à la suite de la Déclaration du Quatuor du 23 septembre. Merci, Madame la Présidente.
135. The President:   Merci beaucoup. I would like to give the floor to the Dominican Republic.
(136) Ms Hernández de Grullón (Dominican Republic) (translation from the Spanish):   Thank you very much, Madam President. I just want to say that the Dominican Republic approves the admission of  Palestine to UNESCO because Palestine’s membership with this Organization represents a step towards achieving peace, the  defence of the universal principles defended by UNESCO. It is not possible that, in this day and age, people should be  deprived of the right to education, science, culture and communication through an Organization with such prestige and  credibility as UNESCO. Thank you very much.
137. The President:   Thank you very much for your statement. Now I give the floor to Ecuador.
(138) Ms Rodríguez (Ecuador) (translation from the Spanish):   Thank you very much, Madam President. Dear delegates, my country, in line with its international policy, has long  supported peace in the Middle East. We believe that the recognition of Palestine within UNESCO is a step in the right direction  and we are pleased that many countries in this room have taken this step to recognize Palestine, which is such an important  action. We are sure that good things await Palestine and would like to reiterate the unwavering support from our country in this  process of recognition as much in UNESCO as in the United Nations. Thank you very much.
(140) Mr Al Rasched (Syrian Arab Republic) (translation from the Arabic):    Madam Director-General, ladies and gentlemen, this vote by the Member States of UNESCO allows us to have hope  after more than 60 years of deprivation for the Palestinian people in its daily suffering in its cultural and educational life. The  Syrian Arab Republic, which has known the occupant in the Syrian Arab Golan, and continues to suffer the heavy foot of  educational and cultural deprivation for its citizens, looks forward to lifting the suffering and oppression from the peoples  demanding their right to self-determination, in accordance with the provisions of UNESCO’s Constitution, which calls first and  foremost for the defences of peace to be constructed in the minds of men. The Syrian Arab Republic congratulates Palestine  on its admission to UNESCO, a pioneering organization. Thank you very much.
141. The President:   Thank you very much. Now I give the floor to Thailand.
142. Mr Vacharathit (Thailand):  Madam President, Madam Director-General, Thailand abstained in the vote on the issue of Palestine, but please  allow me to clarify that Thailand fully supports a two-State solution leading to peaceful coexistence between Israel and  Palestine. We support negotiations under the Quartet roadmap for peace and the Arab peace initiative. Your recognition  of the State of Palestine is an important issue that has been on the agenda of the Thai Cabinet for some time. However,  owing to a national emergency of having to deal with flash flooding in Thailand and helping the people involved, the  Cabinet has been prevented from deliberating on this matter. Thailand hopes to be able to give this issue the thorough  examination that it deserves in due course. Thank you.
143. The President:   Thank you very much. Now I give the floor to Peru.
(144) Mr Businza (Peru) (translation from the Spanish):   Thank you, Madam President. Madam President, only recently, a great friend of Israel, the winner of the Nobel Prize  for Literature Mario Vargas Llosa wrote that “the United Nations’ recognition of the State of Palestine is an act of justice for a  people captive in their own country and undergoing colonial servitude that is intolerable in the twenty-first century”.  Recognizing this fact does not mean justifying terrorist organizations or fanatics that refuse to accept Israel’s legitimate right to  exist. Rather, it means sending a message of support for the great majority of Palestinians who reject violence and only wish  to work and live in peace, as do the indignant Israelis. Although they represent only a minority now, many Israeli citizens do  not support extremist policies but pursue the cause of peace. As true friends of Israel, we should stand by them in their difficult  resistance, because they are the ones that lucidly and realistically warn us that warmongering, intolerant and repressive  policies that support the increasing settlement in occupied territories will have catastrophic consequences for Israel’s future.  Madam President, Peru, a friend of Israel, (Israel should be assured of that) and a friend of Palestine, voted this morning in  favour of the admission of Palestine into UNESCO. It voted in favour as an act of justice. Madam President, the search for  justice is engrained in the human spirit. Since we began to think, we human beings have tirelessly and repeatedly sought  justice, and today, in this room, it came within our reach and we held on to it. I firmly believe, Madam President, that time will  prove us to be right. Justice will always bring peace, and this is why I wish to congratulate not only Palestine for its admission  to UNESCO, but also our very dear friend Israel. Thank you very much, Madam President.
145. The President:   Thank you very much. Now I would like to give the floor to Gabon.
146.1 Mme Ossakedjombo-Ngoua Memiaghe (Gabon) :  Merci, Madame la Présidente. Madame la Présidente, le Gabon a voté tout à l’heure en faveur de l’admission  de l’État de Palestine. Le Gabon souhaite dire qu’il reconnaît l’État de Palestine depuis les années 1980, puisque  l’Ambassadeur Abu Amine Assira a été doyen du corps diplomatique pendant 14 ans.
146.2 Le Gabon note que le vote d’aujourd’hui intervient alors que trois grandes dames, originaires de Bulgarie, de  Hongrie et de la Fédération de Russie, sont à la tête des instances de notre Organisation à l’occasion de ce vote  historique d’admission de la Palestine à l’UNESCO. Ce n’est pas surprenant car, premièrement, ce sont des femmes,  c’est-à-dire des êtres qui donnent la vie – et, à ce titre, elles ne peuvent être silencieuses devant les souffrances de  femmes, d’enfants, de vieillards, d’hommes vivant l’oppression –, et, deuxièmement, parce qu’elles savent ce qu’est un  régime d’oppression.
146.3 Mesdames, nous souhaitons, à ce stade de nos travaux, vous féliciter toutes les trois pour avoir conduit ce  processus et dire qu’il n’a pas été mené contre Israël. Il est mené précisément pour permettre aux deux pays de  continuer à négocier, de s’asseoir pour trouver une solution satisfaisante par l’existence de deux États, israélien et  palestinien, vivant en bonne intelligence et en bon voisinage.
146.4 Madame la Directrice générale, c’est le chercheur sur le Moyen-Orient qui s’exprime et qui exprime également  ici la position de son Gouvernement. Je vous remercie.
147. The President:   Thank you very much for your statement, Your Excellency. Now I give the floor to Turkey.
148. Mr Türkoğalu (Turkey):   Madam President, as a co-sponsor of the draft resolution, my delegation congratulates Palestine and the  General Conference for today’s historic, just and legitimate decision. Turkey, also as an active supporter of the Middle  East process and the two-State solution, believes that UNESCO’s admission of Palestine as a Member will constitute a  contribution to peace and, at the same time, to the credibility and inclusiveness of UNESCO and of the United Nations  system through UNESCO. My delegation hopes that Palestine’s membership will also help UNESCO to work efficiently  to ease the suffering of the Palestinian people regarding their educational institutions and the conservation of their  heritage through the implementation of the relevant Executive Board decisions. Now we think it is time to work together  with Palestine for a stronger and united UNESCO. Thank you.
149. The President:   Thank you very much. Now I give the floor to Malta.
150. Mr Bondin (Malta):  Madam President, I shall try not to repeat what others have said, but for us, being in the middle of the  Mediterranean, the peace process is extremely important. We have always valued and worked very hard for peace in the  Mediterranean, and that means giving all the necessary security and support to both Israel and Palestine. However,  peace cannot even be discussed without giving Palestine its full rights as a nation, as a people. UNESCO is more than
326  asking us about people, about peace, about giving the right for a people to speak about their culture, their education  system, their size. So, I am sure that history will eventually look upon this decision in a very positive way. As a step  forward in bringing peace and nothing else, UNESCO has shown today that it is not looking at certain legal problems or  maybe problems with regards to financing, but has made the decision solely on the basis of the principle that Palestine  has a right to be here like all the other nations. Thank you.
151. The President:   Thank you very much. And now I give the floor to Brazil.
152. Ms da Rocha (Brazil):  Merci, Madame la Présidente. En admettant la Palestine comme État membre, l’UNESCO réaffirme sa tradition  avant-gardiste dans le système international. En votant en faveur de l’admission de la Palestine à l’UNESCO, le Brésil  réitère sa position traditionnelle en faveur d’un État palestinien démocratique, géographiquement contigu et  économiquement viable, coexistant en paix avec l’État d’Israël qui est un pays ami avec lequel nous entretenons des  relations bilatérales qui n’ont jamais été aussi fortes. Aux Palestiniens, Madame la Présidente, nous souhaitons la  bienvenue dans la grande famille de l’UNESCO. Je vous remercie beaucoup.
153. The President:   Thank you very much. Now ladies and gentlemen I will give the floor to Jordan.
(154.2) (translation from the Arabic)  I should like to offer sincerest congratulations and blessings to the Palestinian  delegation, and through it to the fraternal people of Palestine on Palestine’s admission as a Member States of UNESCO.  Palestine’s joining the Organization today is an historic event which demonstrates the support of the international community  for the aspirations of the Palestinian people to preserve its heritage and culture and its desire to advance towards ever broader  horizons in the fields of education and science. This event paves the way to a new stage in the Palestinian struggle for the  establishment of an independent Palestinian State and for the establishment of peace. Jordan’s support for the Palestinian  efforts is rooted in its belief in the legitimacy of Palestinian aspirations, and in its commitment to its own supporting role for  these aspirations, which is imposed by the deep-seated Jordanian-Palestinian relationship. The Jordanian role is also  consonant with what was reaffirmed by the Ministerial Committee for the Peace Initiative, which met yesterday in Doha and  renewed its strong support for the Palestinian request to obtain full membership.
(154.3) I should also like to offer sincere thanks to all those who supported this Palestinian endeavour, and to take this  opportunity to reaffirm that the international interest requires us to recognize the Palestinian right to find a just and  comprehensive solution to its cause based on a two-State solution with an independent and sovereign Palestinian State within  the borders of 4 June 1967, with East Jerusalem as its capital. Thank you.
(156.1) Mr Al-Malki (Palestine) (translation from the Arabic):    Thank you Madam President. This is indeed an historic moment in which, by means of this vote, we are restoring to  Palestine some of its rights and its natural position among States and peoples. I thank you for voting in favour of admission of  Palestine as a Member State of your Organization. This historic vote is an inseparable part of the preservation of the  humanitarian and international heritage, civilization and culture. Palestine is the cradle of religions, the birthplace of  civilizations and cultures, and the seedbed of co-existence and tolerance. I should like in this connection to reiterate to you that  Palestine, following its admission to full membership in UNESCO, will spare no effort to ensure that this venerable  Organization continues to perform its tasks and shoulder its responsibilities in optimal fashion. Palestine reiterates its  readiness to cooperate with all Member States to preserve the human cultural heritage we have inherited. In our efforts to  obtain membership we were consecrating a natural right of ours.
(156.2) Now, my thanks go to all the States and groups which stood with us throughout the past period and supported us  and backed our search for membership over the years and contributed to this great achievement today. Special thanks go to  the Arab, Islamic and African States and the non-aligned States, the States of South America, Central America and the  Caribbean, the Asian States and the European States, each and every one. I say to you, on behalf of my people and my  government, “Thank you, thank you very much from the bottom of our hearts!” We vow to you that we will be a positive  element in the service of the objectives of this Organization and the objectives of all humankind. With regard to the States that  voted against Palestinian membership, I should like to state that Palestine will harbour no rancour towards those States that  voted against membership or towards those that abstained from voting. Now that we have been accepted as a member, we  should like to turn over a new leaf in relations between Member States in order to strengthen the Organization and achieve its  objectives and ensure the success of its programmes. We shall rise above all that and we hope that you will give us an  opportunity to demonstrate to all our commitment to the principles of the Organization and our readiness to be a positive  element in the service of all humankind, of which we are a part. The Palestinian President, Mahmoud Abbas, contacted me  following the vote to say that he thanks you all for giving Palestine the opportunity to take its rightful place in the concert of  nations and in UNESCO in particular. Thank you, UNESCO, a thousand thanks to you all and to our Palestinian people  wherever they may be. Thank you.
157. The President:   Thank you very much for your statement, Your Excellency. And now I would like to give the floor to the Director- General of UNESCO.
158.1 La Directrice générale :  Madame la Présidente de la Conférence générale, Madame la Présidente du Conseil exécutif, Excellences,  Mesdames et Messieurs, nous ressentons tous, en cet instant, le moment historique, la portée symbolique et  l’importance de cette décision pour le peuple palestinien et pour l’UNESCO.
158.2 Elle est le fruit de l’aspiration d’un peuple à rejoindre pleinement la famille des Nations Unies du monde, liées entre  elles par une même ambition de paix et le partage de valeurs communes. Comme l’a souligné le Secrétaire général de l’ONU,  M. Ban Ki-moon, une solution où les deux États vivraient en paix et en sécurité dans la région se fait attendre depuis  longtemps.
158.3 Je souhaite la bienvenue à la Palestine et je voudrais saisir cette occasion pour rappeler que notre coopération  remonte à de nombreuses années. Je pense à notre action en faveur de la formation des enseignants ou bien encore de la  scolarisation des étudiants dans la bande de Gaza. Je pense également aux bourses d’étude que nous finançons, aux ateliers  de formation à la sécurité destinés aux journalistes. L’UNESCO s’est fortement investie dans la préservation du patrimoine  culturel et la mise en place d’un plan de gestion durable des sites de Tell Balata à Naplouse, du parc archéologique et des  mosaïques de Qasr Hisham et de l’Église de la Nativité et du Musée de la Riwaya palestinienne à Bethléem.
158.4 J’entends toujours, plus fort que jamais, l’appel du peuple palestinien à l’UNESCO afin qu’elle intensifie son  engagement et renforce son action dans ses domaines de compétence. En réponse à cet appel, je tiens à réaffirmer que  je veillerai à poursuivre cette coopération, animée de la plus profonde conviction que la qualité du système éducatif,  comme le dynamisme culturel ou le pluralisme des médias, sont le fondement solide de toute société.  (La Directrice générale poursuit en anglais)
158.5. Ladies and gentlemen, the admission of a new Member State is a mark of respect and confidence. This must be  an opportunity to strengthen the Organization and not weaken it, a chance for all to commit once again to the values we  share and not to be divided. Let me be frank. As Director-General, it is my responsibility to say that I am concerned about  the potential challenges that may arise to the universality and financial stability of the Organization. I am worried we may  confront a situation that could erode UNESCO as a universal platform for dialogue. I am worried about the stability of its  budget. It is well known that funding from our largest contributor, the United States, may be jeopardized. I believe it is the  responsibility of all of us to make sure that UNESCO does not suffer unduly as a result.
158.6 I am thinking of those thousands of girls and women in Afghanistan, in Africa and around the world, who have  learned to read and write, with the help of UNESCO. I have in mind Khalida, this young Afghan woman from the Paktika
328  Province, enrolled in a UNESCO training course, who said, and I quote: “My family was hesitant at first about me joining  this programme. But I have learned many new techniques and realized that, as an Afghan woman, I can work together  with men and service my community.” Khalida benefits from UNESCO’s work to enhance literacy in Afghanistan.
158.7 I am thinking about the illiterate policemen in Kabul, in Kandahar and other cities, who are learning to read and  write to better protect their citizens, thanks to us. I am thinking of the Iraqi education satellite channel that supports  learning for Iraqi girls and boys, including refugees and internally displaced persons. I am thinking of the hundreds of  journalists around the world who are at this very moment harassed, killed or imprisoned, because they stand by the truth  -- UNESCO stands by them and speaks out for them. I am thinking also about the stolen treasure of Benghazi, Libya, for  which UNESCO was first to ring the alarm bell. I am thinking of the millions of lives that may be saved by the tsunami  warning system we launched in the Indian Ocean six years after the disaster on 12 October this year. At this time, I know  these thoughts are also on your mind as well.
158.8 The fabric of our societies can be easily torn and is long to mend. I am saddened by the possible loss of  momentum and energy in UNESCO. I cannot imagine we would let these women and men down. UNESCO’s work is too  important to be jeopardized. Our Organization was created 66 years ago to ensure that education, the sciences, culture  and communication bring people together and foster a culture of peace. This is our role as a specialized agency of the  United Nations. We are committed to taking our vital mandate forward. I appeal to you to keep up UNESCO’s ability to  act. In welcoming once again Palestine to the UNESCO family, let me state out loud: we need each and every Member  of this Organization to be fully engaged. Thank you for your attention.
159. The President:   Thank you very much Madam Director-General for your statement. We have come to the end of our  agenda for this meeting. I would suggest that this afternoon’s meeting start here at 4.30 p.m. This meeting is  now adjourned.  The meeting rose at 3.10 p.m.  La séance est levée à 15 h 10  Se levanta la sesión a las 15.10  Заседание закрывается в 15.10  بعد الظهر ٣,١٠اسلسة يف الساعة  رفعت   会议于 15 时 10 分结束