1.1 The Temporary President (Mr Hepburn, President of the 35th session of the General Conference):   Madam Chair of the Executive Board, Madam Director-General of UNESCO, Excellencies, Ministers,  distinguished ambassadors, friends and colleagues, representatives of intergovernmental and non-governmental  organizations, members of the media, ladies and gentlemen, it is with great joy that I welcome you to the 36th session of  UNESCO’s General Conference. As President of the previous session, and in accordance with Rule 28 of the Rules of  Procedure of the General Conference, I have the honour to preside over this inaugural meeting. I therefore declare open  the 36th session of the General Conference of the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization.
1.2 Ladies and gentlemen, before I begin, I would like to take this opportunity, on behalf of all 193 Member States of  UNESCO, to extend sincere condolences to the peoples and Government of Saudi Arabia on the death of Crown Prince  Sultan bin Abdul Aziz al Saud.
1.3 Ladies and gentlemen, we will have now the privilege of listening to the UNESCO Choir and Orchestra, who will  perform the Kyrie and Gloria of the Coronation Mass by Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart, conducted by Mr Jorge Lozano- Corres.   (Musical interlude)
2. Thank you very much for that very special rendition.
3.1 The Temporary President:  Madam Chair of the Executive Board, Madam Director-General, distinguished ministers, representatives of  intergovernmental and non-governmental organizations, dear ambassadors, friends and colleagues, ladies and  gentlemen, the art of worldly wisdom dictates that “good things when shortened are twice as good.” We are all guilty of  verbosity from time to time, but I have found that the mark of a good speaker is to be brief, sincere and seated. I am  certain, nonetheless, that you will allow me to express my feelings about some of the programmes to which I attach  particular importance: education for all (EFA), gender parity and small island developing States (SIDS), to name a few.
3.2 Over the past two years, Member States have sometimes expressed their displeasure with the slow progress of  making EFA a reality. There is proof that greater efforts are being made to achieve this aim by 2015. The Director- General’s programme of reform is being supported as one of the strong pillars to secure UNESCO’s recognition as lead  agency in all of its areas of competence. The question of gender parity is evident throughout the Secretariat and major  improvements have been accomplished at the highest-level positions. Ladies and gentlemen, you have all been aware of  my obsession with promoting the status of small island developing States. Last September, a meeting of experts from
29 countries was held in the Commonwealth of the Bahamas to discuss climate change education for sustainable  development and adaptation in small island developing States. Some very concrete recommendations have emanated  from the lively discussions, and it is hoped that the General Conference will adopt a resolution on this very timely  initiative.
3.3 What is important is that, even though not all of my dreams have been realized, I feel confident that we have  moved away from treating the work of UNESCO in a business-as-usual manner. Let me emphasize once again that we  should not be afraid of taking risks. We should make our differences work for and not against us. I am encouraged by  signs that small States are banding together in order to raise their visibility and bargaining power. These are all signs that  in the near future there will be a greater degree of confidence among all those who have felt marginalized for whatever  reason. Further, I was particularly pleased with the results of the recent UNESCO Youth Forum. The young delegates  made some sound recommendations, which will be integrated into the agenda of the General Conference. We, as  Member States, must make every effort to continue to encourage young persons to exercise the power they have in  driving change.
3.4 Ladies and gentlemen, I am going to leave you here with some thoughts, which I hope will challenge you. The  author is unknown: “Never let anyone make you second guess who you are or what you believe. Smile and smile a lot; it  helps reflect the most important thing about yourself. Don’t sweat the small stuff. This may sound trivial, but it is so easy  to focus on things that aren’t going right in our lives so that we forget about the good things. Be happy and thankful for all  the good in your life. May you always follow your dreams. Love who you are. Believe in miracles. Live out loud. Breathe  deep thrusting breaths. Laugh a lot along the way. Dare to make mistakes: life has big plans for you.”
3.5 During the two years of my presidency, you have been a captive audience to my ranting and ravings, so I am not  going to test your patience any further. Today, therefore, instead of regurgitating platitudes, let me sum up my sentiments  with the lyrics from one of the late Frank Sinatra’s songs:  “And now, the end is near,  And so I face the final curtain.  My friends, I’ll say it clear,  I’ll state my case, of which I’m certain.    I’ve lived a life that’s full.  I’ve travelled each and every highway  And more, much more than this,  I did it my way.    Regrets, I’ve had a few,  But then again, too few to mention.  I did what I had to do  And saw it through without exemption.    I planned each charted course,  Each careful step along the byway,  And more, much more than this,  I did it my way.    Yes, there were times, I’m sure you knew,  When I bit off more than I could chew.  But through it all, when there was doubt,  I ate it up and spit it out.  I faced it all it all, and I stood tall;  And did it my way.    I’ve loved; I’ve laughed and cried.  I’ve had my fill, my share of losing.  But now as tears subside,  I find it all so amusing.    To think I did all that,  And may I say, not in a shy way.  “Oh no, oh no not me;  I did it my way.”    For what is a man? What has he got?  If not himself, then he has naught.  To say the things he truly feels,  And not the words of one who kneels.  The record shows I took the blows  And did it my way.    Yes, it was my way. Oh, yeah.”  (Applause)
3.6 The Temporary President:  And now, ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of inviting Her Excellency Ms Eleonora Mitrofanova, Chair of  the Executive Board, to take the floor. You have the floor, Madam.
(4.1) Ms Mitrofanova (Russian Federation), Chair of the Executive Board (translation from the Russian):   Ladies and gentlemen, this 36th session of the General Conference is quite rightly giving its full attention to such  important and relevant issues as the problem of shaping a culture of peace and achieving sustainable development, which will  be discussed at tomorrow’s Leaders’ Forum, as well as the question of strengthening the concept of cultural diversity, which  will be examined in the high-level discussion scheduled for 2 November.
(4.2) I shall allow myself one question: who should ultimately take on the burden of the constant and universal  dissemination and confirmation of these and other concepts that have been brought to life by UNESCO? Who do we think of  first when we say the word “UNESCO”? Of course, the promotion of these noble ideals in the minds of men and women is our  shared responsibility and even, possibly, to a greater degree the responsibility of the Member States themselves. After all, to a  large extent the Secretariat is a clearly smooth-running mechanism in their hands. It seems to me then that the vitality and  results of the Organization’s work depend directly on the role of the General Conference and the Executive Board, without of  course underestimating the role of the Director-General. And this must be an ever-growing role.
(4.3) UNESCO has always relied in its action on the political and financial support of its Member States. The  Organization’s effectiveness correlates directly to the effectiveness of its members. I therefore turn to the representatives here  of the political elite of the countries that form part of UNESCO. Much depends on your intentions, both within your countries  and in the context of the international community. You have all the means necessary for the achievement at the national level  of the obligations agreed at the international level. It is within your power to implement the Organization’s programme of work,  including the dissemination of a culture of peace and sustainable development through directing policies in the field of  education in humanist values. After all, sustainable development rests on three pillars: the economy, the environment and,  importantly, society; and significant, positive changes in the development of society may be achieved only through education,  science and culture.
(4.4) Dear colleagues, despite periodical, outspoken criticism which, incidentally, is faced by all international agencies, I  consider that nobody doubts that, throughout its existence, UNESCO has done much in its fields of competence to strengthen  peace and security in the world. This is our invaluable legacy from the past.
(4.5) Looking to the future with optimism, I should like to call on all the States Members of UNESCO here, without  exception, present and future Members of its Executive Board, to assist the Organization with still greater enthusiasm in the  effective and to the greatest extent visible achievement of the difficult tasks standing before it. At a time when the international  community is seeking approaches to renew the very system of international relations, we are all required to skilfully combine  time, energy, flexibility, determination and cohesion in order to achieve tangible results acceptable to all. And this, of course,  must in the most direct way be reflected at the present session of the General Conference. I wish you all success and thank  you for your attention.
5. The Temporary President:  Thank you very much for your presentation. Now I have the pleasure of hearing the Director-General. Madam  Director-General, you have the floor.
6.1 La Directrice générale :  Monsieur le Président de la Conférence générale, Madame la Présidente du Conseil exécutif, Mesdames et  Messieurs les chefs de délégation, Excellences, Mesdames et Messieurs, tout d’abord, permettez-moi d’exprimer mes  condoléances les plus sincères à la délégation de l’Arabie saoudite pour la disparition du Prince Sultan Bin Abdul Aziz Al  Saud, qui avait fortement soutenu l’action de l’UNESCO à travers le programme favorisant l’utilisation de la langue arabe,  si importante pour le dialogue entre les cultures. Je voudrais exprimer aussi ma sympathie au peuple de la Turquie, qui a  été affecté par un séisme meurtrier. Je m’adresse à vous avec autant d’émotion et d’humilité qu’il y a deux ans, lorsque  vous m’avez élue à la tête de cette grande et belle Maison.
6.2 Assis à votre place, il y a quelques jours, 201 jeunes de 127 États membres s’étaient donné rendez-vous pour le  Forum des jeunes. Ils étaient venus faire entendre leur voix pour promouvoir le changement. Certains venaient de pays
7  développés et puissants, d’autres de pays moins avancés et de petits États insulaires en développement. Ils ont débattu  des mêmes sujets que nous : les moyens de construire la paix et le développement aujourd’hui, le réchauffement  climatique, la diversité culturelle. Ils ont échangé leurs idées et leurs propositions dans un rapport final qui est inscrit,  pour la première fois, à l’ordre du jour d’une session de la Conférence générale, et qui va enrichir notre débat. Dans leur  diversité, ces jeunes adressent un message universel qui est une leçon pour nous tous. Peu importe qui nous sommes  et d’où nous venons, ce qui nous rassemble est plus fort que ce qui nous sépare. Nous appartenons tous à la famille des  Nations Unies.
6.3 Quelles que soient nos différences d’origine, de race, de religion ou d’opinion, nous partageons les mêmes  rêves, la même ambition pour la paix et pour le développement. Les rêves des blogueurs de Tunis, ceux des jeunes  d’Haïti touchés par le séisme, la maladie ou le chômage ne sont pas si différents des nôtres, ni de ceux de nos enfants.  Tous veulent une éducation de qualité et des professeurs qualifiés qui les aident à trouver un emploi, à s’investir dans la  société. Ces jeunes nous appellent à plus de coopération, à plus de solidarité. Les tsunamis, les effets du réchauffement  climatique se moquent des frontières nationales. Ils nous concernent tous, et nous ne les surmonterons que si nous  restons soudés. Nous devons avancer ensemble, ou nous n’avancerons pas du tout.  (La Directrice générale poursuit en anglais)
6.4 Ladies and gentlemen, this session of the General Conference has the fullest agenda of the last 20 years. It will  also be the shortest in our history. The agenda carries high stakes. The challenges we face are bigger than national  differences. The global economic crisis is hitting societies hard across the world, especially the most vulnerable and least  resilient. We live in a time of profound change. This is accompanied by turbulence and uncertainty, as well as by  opportunity. We need to find new ways to build stability and sustainability. The world’s seven billionth citizen will soon be  born. Pressures are rising on land and resources, jobs and opportunities. UNESCO’s message is that humanity is also its  own greatest renewable energy; together, we are an endless wellspring of ingenuity. Half of the world’s population is  under 25. We must release the potential they carry that is being held back. We must invest in the dignity and the capacity  of every girl and boy, every woman and man, to strengthen the grounds for peace and sustainable development. This  starts with education, with culture, with the sciences and with communication. This is what UNESCO stands for and why  UNESCO was created. We have faced challenges in the past that have tested our convictions and our unity. Facing new  challenges today of unmatched complexity, we must remain true to our shared values and we must remain united.
6.5 You know, ladies and gentlemen, that UNESCO is engaged in a root-and-branch reform. This is a reform to  perform. We are cutting administrative costs and we are sharpening our focus to deepen our impact and meet your  needs. UNESCO is changing. We have started this together. We must fulfil this promise and complete this change  together. This is the vision of the Draft Programme and Budget documents before you. This will clear the ground for a  new Medium-Term Strategy. The world is calling on us to act. We have no choice but to adapt and innovate.
6.6 At this defining moment, I call on your support and your vision, and I make an appeal for unity. Every day tells us  the story that it is not enough to connect; we must share. It is not enough to cooperate; we must build a better and more  sustainable future together for the benefit of all. This is my appeal for a new humanism as the compass guiding  UNESCO’s action. This General Conference is a unique opportunity to share our visions and experience. This is the goal  of the new Leaders’ Forum. It is also the moment to decide where we must act and move forward together. Welcome,  ladies and gentlemen, once again, to this 36th General Conference of UNESCO.
7. The Temporary President:   Thank you very much, Ms Bokova. Allow me to say how pleased we all are to have you as Director-General for  this first General Conference under your mandate.   Item 1.2: Establishment of the Credentials Committee   Point 1.2 : Constitution du Comité de vérification des pouvoirs  Punto 1.2: Constitución del Comité de Verificación de Poderes  Пункт 1.2: Учреждение Комитета по проверке полномочий   : تشكيل لجنة فحص وثائق االعتماد١,٢البند    项目 1.2: 成立全权证书委员会
8.1 The Temporary President:  And now, let us turn our attention to agenda item 1.2, “Establishment of the Credentials Committee”. Ladies and  gentlemen, after having listened to a wonderful piece of music, and inspiring words from Ms Mitrofanova and Madam  Director-General, we are now moving to a more procedural part of the meeting. First, we need to establish the  Credentials Committee, in accordance with Rule 32 of the Rules of Procedure. The Credentials Committee consists of  nine Member States which are elected by the General Conference upon the proposal of the Temporary President. After  careful examination of the composition of previous committees, with due regard to fair geographical distribution, and  following consultations of a great number of delegations, I would like to suggest that the Credentials Committee be  composed of the following countries: Azerbaijan, Canada, the Democratic Republic of the Congo, Denmark, Egypt,  Namibia, Nepal, the Bolivarian Republic of Venezuela, and Yemen. Are there any objections to this suggestion? I see  none. It is so decided.
8.2 I wish to congratulate the elected members, and remind them that, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure,  the Committee is responsible for electing its own Chairperson. I would also like to remind you that, following
186 EX/Decision 22 (IV), the Executive Board decided to recommend the election of His Excellency Mr Uffe Andreasen
8  of Denmark as Chairperson of the Committee. I now invite the newly elected members of the Credentials Committee to  meet at 12 p.m. in Room VIII of this building. Thank you very much.  Establishment of the Nominations Committee  Constitution du Comité des candidatures  Constitución del Comité de Candidaturas  Учреждение Комитета по кандидатурам  شكيل لجنة الترشيحاتت   成立提名委员会
9.1 The Temporary President:   Ladies and gentlemen, it is now time for us to set up the Nominations Committee. According to Rule 34 of the  Rules of Procedure, this Committee consists of the heads of all delegations entitled to vote in the Conference. The head  of any delegation may designate another member of his or her delegation to attend meetings and vote in his or her place.  Representatives to the Committee may be assisted by a member of their delegation. As in the case of the Credentials  Committee, the Nominations Committee elects its own Chairperson, in accordance with Rule 34. I would also like to  remind you that, pursuant to 186 EX/Decision 22 (IV), the Executive Board decided to recommend His Excellency  Mr David Hamadziripi, Ambassador, Permanent Delegate of Zimbabwe to UNESCO, as Chairperson of the Committee. I  would like now to invite the Nominations Committee to meet at 12 p.m. in Room IV.  Item 1.4: Adoption of the agenda (36 C/1 Prov. Rev.)  Point 1.4 : Adoption de l'ordre du jour (36 C/1 Prov. Rev.)  Punto 1.4: Aprobación del orden del día (36 C/1 Prov. Rev.)  Пункт 1.4: Утверждение повестки дня (36 C/1 Prov. Rev.)  )املؤئتة املعدلة ١م/٣٦ج : اعتماد جدول األعمال١,٤البند    项目 1.4: 通过议程 (36 C/1 Prov. Rev.)
10. The Temporary President:   We shall now turn our attention to item 1.4, “Adoption of the agenda”. This is contained in document 36 C/1 Prov.  Rev. which was prepared by the Executive Board at its 186th and 187th sessions. Allow me to remind you that at this  stage, according to Rule 15, only new items of an important and urgent character may be added to the agenda. Any such  proposals would be considered by the General Committee before being put to the General Conference for approval by a  two-thirds majority vote. And now for the presentation of the draft agenda, I am pleased to give the floor to Her  Excellency Ms Eleonora Mitrofanova, Chair of the Executive Board. Madam, you have the floor.
11. Ms Mitrofanova (Russian Federation), Chair of the Executive Board:   Thank you very much, Your Excellency. Distinguished President of the General Conference, distinguished  Director-General, distinguished delegates, ladies and gentlemen, in accordance with the provisions of Article V.B.6(a) of  the Constitution, the provisional agenda of the present session of the General Conference was prepared by the  Executive Board at its 186th session on the basis of a document submitted to it by the Director-General. Subsequent to  the discussion that took place on this subject, the Executive Board adopted 186 EX/22 (I). By the same decision, the  Board also decided that “any other items submitted by Member States or Associate Members or by the United Nations, in  accordance with Rule 9 of the Rules of Procedure, no later than 100 days before the opening of the session (i.e. before
17 July 2011) shall be inscribed by the Director-General on the provisional agenda, which shall then be communicated to  Member States and Associate Members no later than 90 days before the opening of the session (i.e. 27 July 2011)”. At  its 187th session, the Executive Board examined the revised provisional agenda of the 36th session of the General  Conference and, by 187 EX/Decision 26 (I), retained the 12 supplementary items that were submitted within the time limit  set by Rule 12 of the Rules of Procedure of the General Conference. These items have been included in the  supplementary list circulated to the Member States and Associate Members in accordance with the provisions of Rule 12,  paragraph 3, of the Rules of Procedure. Mr President, on behalf of the Executive Board, I have the honour of submitting  for adoption by the General Conference the revised provisional agenda contained in document 36 C/1 Prov. Rev. Thank  you very much.
12. The Temporary President:   Thank you very much, Madam, for your presentation. Ladies and gentlemen, is there any comment on this item  before adoption? I see none. It is so decided.
13. The Temporary President:   Ladies and gentlemen, our next task is to examine item 1.7 of our agenda concerning the admission to the work  of the General Conference of observers from international non-governmental organizations (NGOs) other than those  maintaining formal or operational relations with UNESCO, and recommendations of the Executive Board thereon. The  relevant working document relating to this item is document 36 C/13. I am pleased now to invite once more the Chair of  the Executive Board to present the Board's recommendations on this matter. Madam Chair, you have the floor.
14. Ms Mitrofanova (Russian Federation), Chair of the Executive Board:   Thank you very much, Your Excellency. Ladies and gentlemen, in presenting this item to the General  Conference, may I take the liberty of commending the ever-increasing importance of the work of international non- governmental organizations and the essential role they have played and continue to play on the international scene. As  unquestionable actors of civil society, the expertise and visibility of international NGOs on the ground no longer need to  be proven. Rather, they are an affirmation of the strong partnership that exists between them and the international  community, having as a common quest the strengthening of international cooperation for peace and development. It is in  this spirit that the Executive Board examined document 187 EX/26 (IV), relating to the admission to the 36th session of  the General Conference of observers from international non-governmental organizations other than those maintaining  formal and operational relations with UNESCO, and on which the Board took a unanimous decision. Mr President, I  therefore recommend, on behalf of the Executive Board, that those organizations, now listed in document 36 C/13, be  invited to participate in the 36th session of the General Conference as observers in the debates on specific agenda items  relating to their fields of competence. Thank you very much.
15. The Temporary President:   Thank you very much, Madam, for your presentation. I now wish to submit this recommendation to the approval  of the General Conference. Since I see no objections, I will take it that this recommendation is adopted unanimously.  Thank you very much.  Item 9: RELATIONS WITH MEMBER STATES AND INTERNATIONAL ORGANIZATIONS  Point 9 : RELATIONS AVEC LES ÉTATS MEMBRES ET LES ORGANISATIONS INTERNATIONALES  Punto 9: RELACIONES CON LOS ESTADOS MIEMBROS Y LAS ORGANIZACIONES INTERNACIONALES  Пункт 9: ОТНОШЕНИЯ С ГОСУДАРСТВАМИ-ЧЛЕНАМИ И МЕЖДУНАРОДНЫМИ ОРГАНИЗАЦИЯМИ  العالقات مع الدول األعضاء والمنظمات الدولية: ٩البند    项目 9： 与会员国和国际组织的关系   Item 9.3: Request for the admission of Curaçao as an Associate Member of UNESCO   Point 9.3 : Demande d’admission de Curaçao en qualité de Membre associé de l’UNESCO   Punto 9.3: Solicitud de admisión de Curaçao en calidad de Miembro Asociado de la UNESCO   Пункт 9.3: Просьба о приеме Кюрасао в качестве члена – сотрудника ЮНЕСКО     وتسب إلى اليونسككعضو منكوراساو  طلب انضمام  :٩,٣البند  项目 9.3: 要求接纳库拉索岛为教科文组织准会员
16.1 The Temporary President:   We will now move to two items concerning requests for admission as Associate Members of UNESCO. Ladies  and gentlemen, as you know, the Netherlands Antilles, a former Associate Member of the Organization, ceased to exist  as of 10 October 2010. We now have the pleasure to examine the request for admission of Curaçao and Sint Maarten,  which were part of the Netherlands Antilles. The request in item 9.3 for the admission of Curaçao as an Associate  Member of UNESCO is presented in document 36 C/60 under item 9.3. This document includes a letter dated June 2011  from the Minister of Foreign Affairs of the Kingdom of the Netherlands, applying for associate membership on behalf of  Curaçao, whose international relations fall under the responsibility of his country. This letter is in compliance with Article
10  II, paragraph 3, of the Constitution, which states that territories or groups of territories which are not responsible for the  conduct of their international relations may be admitted as Associate Members by the General Conference by a two- thirds majority of Members present and voting, upon application made on behalf of such territories or groups of territories  by the Member or other authority having responsibility for their international relations. I now present to the General  Conference the request for admission of Curaçao as an Associate Member of UNESCO. I see no objection. I therefore  declare that Curaçao has been admitted as a new Associate Member of the Organization. It is so decided.  Congratulations.  (Applause)
16.2 It is now my pleasure to give the floor to Mr Lionel Jansen, Minister of Education, Science, Culture and Sport of  Curaçao, who will briefly address the General Conference. You have the floor, Sir.
17.1 Mr Jansen (Curaçao):   Mr President of the General Conference, Madam Chair of the Executive Board, Director-General, distinguished  delegates, ladies and gentlemen, on October 10, 2010 a new Caribbean country was born: Curaçao. This was the result  of the dissolving of the Netherlands Antilles which consisted of five islands in the Caribbean: Curaçao, Bonaire, Saba,  Sint Maarten and Sint Eustatius. Mr President, it is without a doubt a great privilege and honour for me to stand here  before you. I wish, first of all, on behalf of the Government of Curaçao, to extend our sincere appreciation and gratitude  to the head of the Delegation of the Kingdom of the Netherlands for the support given and to you, the Members of  UNESCO, for making this moment a reality for us. Twenty-eight years ago, in October of 1983, in a plenary session like  this one, the Netherlands Antilles was accepted as the first Associate Member of UNESCO. History now has it that I  stand before you today, Mr President, on this very date, 25 October, addressing you as Minister of Curaçao. Mr  President, my government considers this solemn moment as Associate Member of great significance at the present  stage of our development as a small island in a developing state. We are proud to be part of the UNESCO family, and  you can rest assured that we will continue to be involved in the activities of UNESCO and work on UNESCO’s visibility in  our country. Finally, congratulations to Sint Maarten in anticipation of also obtaining Associate Member status in  UNESCO. Thank you.  (Applause)
18.1 The Temporary President:   Thank you very much, Mr Minister, for that very important statement, and I would like to extend congratulations  to you.  Item 9.5: Request for the admission of Sint Maarten as an Associate Member of UNESCO   Point 9.5 : Demande d’admission de Sint Maarten en qualité de Membre associé de l’UNESCO   Punto 9.5: Solicitud de admisión de Sint Maarten en calidad de Miembro Asociado de la UNESCO   Пункт 9.5: Просьба о приеме Синт-Маартена в качестве члена – сотрудника ЮНЕСКО   كعضو منتسب إلى اليونسكوسنت مارتن  طلب انضمام : ٩,٥البند    项目 9.5: 要求接纳圣马丁为教科文组织准会员
19.1 The Temporary President:   Ladies and gentlemen, we now turn to the request for the admission of Sint Maarten as an Associate Member of  the Organization, presented under item 9.5 in document 36 C/61. It includes the letter, dated 15 September 2011, from  the Minister of Foreign Affairs of the Kingdom of the Netherlands, applying on behalf of Sint Maarten, a territory whose  international relations fall under the responsibility of his country, for its admission as an Associate Member of UNESCO.  As in the previous case, this letter is in compliance with Article II, paragraph 3, of the Constitution, which states that  territories or groups of territories which are not responsible for the conduct of their international relations may be admitted  as Associate Members by the General Conference by a two-thirds majority of Members present and voting, upon  application made on behalf of such territories or groups of territories by the Member or other authority having  responsibility for their international relations. Ladies and gentlemen, delegates, I now present the request for admission  of Sint Maarten as an Associate Member of UNESCO. I see no objection. I therefore declare that Sint Maarten has been  admitted as a new Associate Member of the Organization. It is so decided. Congratulations.  (Applause)
19.2 It is now my pleasure to give the floor to Ms Rhoda Arrindell, Minister of Education of Sint Maarten, who will  briefly address the General Conference. Please, Madam, you have the floor.
20. Ms Arrindell (Sint Maarten):   Mr President, Excellencies, ladies and gentlemen, this is a historic and joyous moment for the people and  Government of Sint Maarten. I thank you on their behalf for the honour you have bestowed upon us by admitting Sint  Maarten as an Associate Member of this august body. We pledge to uphold the goals and ideals of this Organization as  we look forward to full participation in the affairs of UNESCO at the highest levels possible. I also offer congratulations to  our sister island, Curaçao, on obtaining its Associate Member status. Once again, thank you so much, bedankt, merci  beaucoup pour tout.
21.1 The Temporary President:   Merci beaucoup, Madame. Distinguished delegates, ladies and gentlemen, there are several reasons for my  pleasure in welcoming two fellow Caribbean territories to the UNESCO family. They are not newcomers, having been
11  listed under a former mandate. The Caribbean region prides itself on the fact that it is a multicultural, multilingual society.  I have been involved with these territories for a long time and we have shared a number of mutual concerns. Their  participation in regional meetings has always been based on a spirit of interdependence. Their presence here this  morning is one of the perfect examples of making our differences work for and not against us. I have visited both islands  and have always felt very much at home. There is no doubt that the representatives will be instrumental in promoting  greater unity within the region. These unanimous decisions will further strengthen our Organization and enhance its  universal character. With your admission of these fellow Caribbean territories, we have now reached the astonishing  number of 201 Member States and Associate Members. We can rightfully boast that our membership is now the largest  of all United Nations agencies. This is an achievement of which we can be justifiably proud. Congratulations, once again.  (Applause)
21.2 I now have the pleasure of giving the floor to Madam Director-General, Ms Bokova.
22.1 The Director-General:   Mr President of the General Conference, Excellencies, heads of delegations, ladies and gentlemen, it is a great  pleasure to welcome Sint Maarten as an Associate Member of UNESCO. This marks the opening of a new era of  cooperation between UNESCO and Sint Maarten. Our cooperation, I believe, will build on the foundations we have  already established to take forward the shared values of human dignity, equality and mutual respect, and to craft new  approaches to sustainable development. At a time of profound change, more than ever, the peoples of the world must  advance together. We need a stronger multilateral order that is inclusive, underpinned by shared values and driven by  rules of collective action. The associate membership of Sint Maarten in UNESCO is another important step in these  directions. UNESCO stands ready to support the aspirations of the society of Sint Maarten for human rights and  freedoms, for quality education, for safeguarding cultural heritage and expression, for managing the impacts of climate  change, and for developing new approaches to sustainable growth. In tackling these challenges, all Member States will  benefit from the voice of Sint Maarten, its experience and its vision of a better future. As Director-General, I look forward  to this new opportunity and I thank the authorities and people of Sint Maarten for their engagement and commitment.  And I thank Madam Minister.  (The Director-General continues in French)
22.2 Mesdames et Messieurs, je souhaite aussi la bienvenue à Curaçao, nouveau Membre associé de l’UNESCO. Je  me réjouis de cette adhésion et prends d’ailleurs comme un signe d’empressement à travailler avec l’Organisation le fait  que Curaçao ait déjà mis en place une commission nationale, qui sera officiellement inaugurée très bientôt. D’autre part,  je voudrais souligner l’importance que revêt à mes yeux l’adhésion d’une île des Caraïbes extrêmement investie dans les  enjeux des petits États insulaires en développement, en particulier à travers les activités de la Chaire UNESCO de  l’Université de Curaçao. Ces enjeux sont vitaux pour la réflexion sur les conséquences du réchauffement climatique, et  l’UNESCO sera plus forte de la contribution et de la voix de ce pays. La région des Caraïbes occupe également une  position centrale pour comprendre le gigantesque décloisonnement du monde et la mise en relation des continents, à  l’œuvre aujourd’hui. Par son histoire et sa culture, elle offre une aide précieuse pour aborder les enjeux de la  mondialisation. Le monde a besoin de cette intelligence de la relation, de la diversité culturelle, et la population et les  autorités de Curaçao et de Sint Maarten sont des observateurs et des acteurs privilégiés de ces brassages d’identités.  Je sais que leur contribution sera importante. Je souhaite les remercier pour la confiance qu’ils manifestent à l’égard de  l’UNESCO. Je vous remercie de votre attention.  (Applaudissements)
23.1 The Temporary President:   Madame la Directrice-Générale, merci beaucoup de votre déclaration. Ladies and gentlemen, I have an apology  to make. I am so sorry to let you go at this early stage in our meeting. This meeting is adjourned.   The meeting rose at 11.10 a.m.  La séance est levée à 11 h 10  Se levanta la sesión a las 11.10  Заседание закрывается в 11.10  صباحاً  ١١,١٠رفعت اسلسة يف الساعة    会议于 11 时 10 分结束