330  Report of the Youth Forum (36 C/47)  Rapport du Forum des jeunes (36 C/47)  Informe del Foro de la Juventud (36 C/47)  Доклад Форума молодежи (36 C/47)    )٤٧/م ٣٦جتقرير منتدى الشباب  青年论坛的报告 (36 C/47)
1.1 The President:   Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. I declare open the twelfth plenary meeting of the 36th session of the  General Conference. After having listened to 179 national statements since last Thursday, the Director-General will de- liver her reply this afternoon. Before that, we will listen to several interesting reports. First, we have representatives from  the Youth Forum, then we will of course hear from the Legal Committee. We will also listen to a statement by the Chair- person of the Intergovernmental Oceanographic Commission (IOC).
1.2 Excellencies, ladies and gentlemen, I suggest we begin with the report of the Youth Forum, which was held from
17 to 20 October at UNESCO Headquarters. In this respect, it is my great pleasure to give the floor to Ms Nasma Dasser  and Mr Miika Tomi, delegates at the Youth Forum who have been selected by their peers to present the conclusions of  this year’s Forum. Ms Dasser and Mr Tomi, you have the floor.
2.1 Mme Nasma Dasser (Suisse) (Rapporteur du Forum des jeunes) :   Madame la Présidente de la 36e Conférence générale de l’UNESCO, Madame la Directrice générale de  l'UNESCO, Excellences, Mesdames et Messieurs, en cette journée qui restera inscrite dans l’histoire de l’UNESCO et  gravée dans nos mémoires, c’est avec un immense plaisir que nous avons l’honneur de vous adresser un message qui  influera certainement sur le futur et métamorphosera notre présent. L’immense responsabilité qui nous a été confiée à  travers ce Forum des jeunes est porteuse d’espoir et de renouveau pour le monde que l’on souhaite construire ensemble.  Ce message, vous le comprendrez, n’est ni un cri de colère, d’amertume ou de découragement ni un réquisitoire. Non,  car en prenant le temps d’écouter ce message, ce n’est pas à nous, représentants de la jeunesse – qui constitue  d’ailleurs la moitié de la population mondiale – que vous faites une faveur, mais bien à vous-mêmes, représentants de  vos gouvernements et organisations. En effet, il est temps de prendre en main l’avenir en donnant un signal clair et  positif à la jeunesse. C’est pourquoi j’en appelle à la jeunesse qui sommeille en vous. Le monde tel que nous l’avons  connu hier se transforme aujourd’hui. Durant l’année écoulée, nous avons été témoins de vastes mouvements sociaux  pacifiques qui se sont propagés dans toutes les régions du monde. Des peuples entiers, à l’écoute d’une jeunesse  excédée, sont prêts, souvent au péril de leur vie, à s’exprimer sur la place publique pour y clamer leurs préoccupations  et revendications légitimes. Nous ne pouvons nous permettre d’ignorer ce phénomène. D’autant plus qu’aujourd’hui  même un seuil symbolique a été franchi : sept milliards d’êtres humains peuplent désormais la Terre. Mais qu’allons- nous en déduire ? La famille s’élargit, mais sera-t-elle pour autant plus heureuse ? Et comment allons-nous agir pour  nous assurer que les générations du futur et du présent trouvent leur place au sein d’un monde en constante évolution et  dont les ressources s’épuisent ?
2.2 Notre réponse est simple : il est temps d’arrêter de parler. Il est temps de s’écouter. C’est plus que d’un  changement dont nous avons besoin, c’est d’une évolution. Une évolution des mentalités et des pratiques vers des  principes communs. Mais cette évolution ne doit point effrayer, car nous pouvons la réaliser ensemble. Et ce n’est  qu’ensemble que nous évoluerons vers un monde où le non-respect des droits de l’homme, le manque de démocratie et  de transparence, les discriminations, la pauvreté, les ravages du changement climatique, l’analphabétisme et les  limitations imposées à la liberté d’expression et aux autres libertés fondamentales feront partie du passé. Ce n’est qu’à  travers le dialogue que l’on pourra mieux s’écouter. Et comme le disait Julian Huxley, membre fondateur de l’UNESCO  et premier Directeur général : « une paix fondée sur les seuls accords économiques et politiques des gouvernements ne  saurait donner satisfaction », puisqu’elle ne pourrait « entraîner l’adhésion unanime, durable et sincère des peuples ».  « Par conséquent, cette paix doit être établie sur le fondement de la solidarité intellectuelle et morale de l’humanité. »   (L’oratrice poursuit en anglais)
2.3 The very first milestone towards dialogue and mutual understanding is, we believe, the Universal Declaration of  Human Rights. We implore all Member States to fully implement the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and all  internationally agreed development goals (IADGs), with a view to ensuring the eradication of poverty and all forms of  violence, discrimination and intolerance. It is indeed of the utmost importance for the future of humanity that the young  people of the world be given the same rights and opportunities, regardless of their origin, religion, possible disabilities,  gender and sexual orientation.
2.4 We are also convinced that, as UNESCO was one of the first agencies of the United Nations system to define  and develop specific programmes for young people, UNESCO should aim to make young people its next global priority.
3.1 Mr Tomi (Finland) (Rapporteur of the Youth Forum):    Dear ladies and gentlemen, education is the natural response to a human being’s deep desire for learning.  Education implies a continuous nurturing of the body, soul and mind. It provides the most definite escape from poverty  and it simply elevates humanity. About 69 million children of school age did not go to school in 2008. Imagine your child  being one of them. Education is a way to stability, as peace begins in people’s minds. Therefore, we urge Member States  to ensure not only equal access to quality public education, but also free, universal and mandatory education up to the  secondary level.
3.2 We, the youth delegates, believe that in order to have a complete education we need access not only to quality
331  formal education, but also to quality non-formal education. Accordingly, human rights-based, informal, intercultural,  value-based and civic education must be seen as equal parts of the lifelong learning process. Sports and arts education  must be recognized as key elements in preventing violence and promoting a culture of peace. Special attention needs to  be paid to empowering girls and women by promoting gender equality, abolishing illiteracy and providing comprehensive  sex education. We request that you recognize the importance of gender equality in order to achieve peace and  sustainable development throughout the world. In rapidly changing labour markets where young people are suffering  from very high youth unemployment rates, we must reinforce intergenerational partnerships, entrepreneurial skills and  training opportunities, and invest in non-traditional fields such as e-learning. We must also bear in mind the need to  ensure equal learning opportunities for children with migration backgrounds and refugee children.
3.3 Nearly 17,000 species of plants and animals are currently at risk of becoming extinct. During the last decade, we  lost 5.2 million hectares of forest area per year. Even if emissions were frozen at their current level, we would still need  two planets to continue living the way we do now. Imagine your grandchildren living in the world that we will leave behind.  We therefore request, firstly, that Member States acknowledge that climate change endangers all young people’s futures.  Sustainable development solutions and opportunities engaging young people must be embraced, especially as we move  towards Rio+20.
3.4 Secondly, we call upon Member States to provide training for young people and encourage youth-led initiatives  that promote green societies, emphasize the importance of green jobs, reduce fossil fuel dependency, foster disaster-risk  management and preserve our natural heritage. Young people can easily be seen as a threat or a burden. However,  while a society that has suppressed its young might secure a peaceful existence, it will certainly have lost its future. A  country that is able to strengthen the powerful force of young people and channel it, in a positive way, into the  construction of society will have a bright future ahead of it. Therefore we urge you all to include youth representatives in  your national delegations to the General Conference and to enhance youth participation in decision-making. These youth  delegates must be selected through an absolutely transparent process, one year in advance, respecting gender equality  and thereby ensuring they have a broad mandate to represent young people in their countries.
3.5 Two years ago, our colleagues stressed exactly this same issue. Nasma and I are both part of our national  delegations, but unfortunately we are still a rare exception. This experience has meant a lot to us and we hope that the  same privilege will be provided for many more in the future. We believe that the way to active and responsible citizenship  begins at an early age. Consequently, we request that all students of all ages have the right to participate in youth-led  student democracy at both the local and the national level. Permanent youth representation must be established and  reinforced in all National Commissions for UNESCO. Additionally, opportunities to volunteer and join mentorship  programmes should be expanded. The world’s greatest resource is undoubtedly human capital and, to our minds,  especially youth capital. The creativity, innovation and fresh ideas young citizens can bring to policies and programmes  for sustainable lifestyles will, to borrow the Director-General’s slogan, “reform to perform”.    جمقررة م تدى الشباب):داسير  السيدة ١و٤ العام للاوةستو ضمهاة كبرية للشباب، وحنن ةشتركم  املؤمتروهذه الس ة، ضعطى  .والعمل معاً احلءور الترام، حنن م فتحون على احلوار  ،سادايت ساديت  على ذلك.
(4.1) Mme Dasser (Rapporteur du Forum des jeunes) (traduit de l’arabe) :   Mesdames, Messieurs, distingués participants, nous sommes ouverts au dialogue et au travail en commun. Cette  année, la Conférence générale de l’UNESCO accorde une grande importance à la jeunesse, et nous vous en remercions.  (L’oratrice poursuit en anglais)
4.2 Let us end with one last quote from a fellow youth delegate when he was asked what the role of young people  was: “Why call youth ‘the future’ when they are here now making change? I want to be called ‘Mr Right Now’, ‘Mr Today’  and ‘Mr Future’.” Thank you very much.
5. The President:   Thank you so much, Ms Dasser and Mr Tomi, for presenting the report of the Youth Forum. I think we have a  good future ahead if we have such brilliant young representatives here around us. Thank you very much. May I now sug- gest that the General Conference take note of the report? I see no objections. It is so decided.   Statement by the Chair of the UNESCO Intergovernmental Oceanographic Commission – IOC  Déclaration du Président de la Commission océanographique intergouvernementale de l'UNESCO – COI  Declaración del Presidente de la Comisión Oceanográfica Intergubernamental de la UNESCO – COI  Заявление Председателя Межправительственной океанографической комиссии ЮНЕСКО – МОК   بيان من رئيس لجنة اليونسكو الدولية الحكومية لعلوم المحيطات 教科文组织政府间海洋学委员会（IOC）主席的发言
6. The President:   Ladies and gentlemen, it is now my pleasure to give the floor to Mr Sang-Kyung Byun, Chairperson of the Inter- governmental Oceanographic Commission (IOC), who will make a statement on the 50th anniversary of the Commission.  Mr Byun, you have the floor.
7.1 Mr Byun (Intergovernmental Oceanographic Commission of UNESCO – IOC):   Excellencies, Madam President of the General Conference, Madam Chair of the Executive Board, Madam  Director-General, ladies and gentlemen, I am pleased you have given me an opportunity to report the main  achievements of IOC’s 50th anniversary to you.
7.2 IOC was established in 1960 as a body with functional autonomy within UNESCO. Its purposes are to promote  international cooperation and to coordinate programmes in ocean and coastal research, services and capacity building.  Since then, IOC has become one of UNESCO’s flagship programmes. In the 2007-2008 biennium, the IOC governing  bodies decided to celebrate IOC’s 50th anniversary. Commemorative events began in 2009 and continued during the  next two years. Commemorative activities mainly focused on creating awareness, demonstrating the importance of IOC  achievements, promoting a better image of UNESCO and its IOC and obtaining governments’ commitment to take action  and provide adequate resources to support IOC and the ocean. The official closure of the commemorative year took  place in June this year during the IOC Assembly. More than 50 conferences, meetings and training activities dedicated to  the anniversary were implemented during the period 2009 - 2011. Eleven substantive publications were issued by  Member States to commemorate the anniversary of IOC and its input to research on ocean and coastal zones and to  their protection.
7.3 A special, related achievement was the publication of the book Troubled Waters: Ocean Science and  Governance by Cambridge University Press. The book contains information on the development of IOC during its first
50 years as well as leading scientists’ forward-looking visions of the future of ocean science and IOC. More than
30 research and training cruises were implemented under the IOC anniversary flag in different parts of the world.  Furthermore, underwater film festivals were organized, dedicated websites were launched and press releases,  promotional flyers and posters were published. The IOC commemorative medal was developed and presented to more  than 50 individuals. You may be surprised to learn that all the above-mentioned activities were implemented within the  regular budget of IOC and without any specially allocated 50th anniversary funds. The generous financial contributions of  Member States and partners, which amounted to $400,000, made it possible to meet the anniversary objectives.
7.4 IOC’s 50th anniversary helped remind Member States of why continued and strengthened support for IOC is a  vital investment for our future. UNESCO’s Intergovernmental Oceanographic Commission (IOC) is, and has been for the  last 50 years, the sole United Nations organization specializing in ocean-related science and services. The ocean and  IOC deserve and appreciate your support, especially now that, with the support of the Secretary-General of the United  Nations Mr Ban Ki-moon, UNESCO is making the ocean and the blue-green economy one of the key topics of Rio+20. I  invite you all to join our side event tomorrow at 1 p.m. in Room IX. Thank you for your attention.
8. The President:   Thank you very much for this report. Can I suggest that the General Conference take note of this statement? I  see no objections. It is so decided.  Reply by the Director-General to the general policy debate  Réponse de la Directrice générale au débat de politique générale  Respuesta de la Directora General al debate de política general  Ответ Генерального директора на обсуждение вопросов общей политики   العامة رد المديرة العامة بشأن م ائشة السااسة    总干事对总政策辩论的答辩
9. The President:   Now, ladies and gentlemen, I have the pleasure of giving the floor to the Director-General, who will deliver her  reply to the general policy debate.
10.1 The Director-General:   Thank you. Madam President of the General Conference, ladies and gentlemen, Excellencies, the President of  Serbia reminded us last week of the words of Thomas Mann: “Speech is civilization itself […] – it is silence which iso- lates.” This is the objective of UNESCO and the United Nations – to ensure that every voice has a tribune and that we  act together to respond to common challenges. The General Conference has benefited from the participation of Member  States at the level of heads of State and of government. The presence of so many international organizations, non- governmental organizations and observers testifies to our convening power and the relevance accorded to our activities.  We have heard how young States, from Timor-Leste to the Maldives, are building the foundations of vibrant democracies,  notably by placing emphasis on education and culture. We were honoured by record participation from Pacific Member  States, and especially the participation of the President of Palau. We have heard the experience of many post-conflict  countries in building reconciliation and a better future, giving priority to UNESCO’s areas of competence. We have heard  about Haiti’s determination to make access to education free for all children, to develop science programmes and to  safeguard its rich tangible and intangible cultural heritage. I know that side events over the past week have allowed you  to exchange views at the highest level on the quality of education in Latin America and Africa, on reinforcing literacy  partnerships in the E9 countries and on taking forward the Capacity Development for Education for All programme  (CapEFA) in 20 priority countries. I wish to thank everyone who took part for their engagement in a vibrant debate.
10.2 The Prime Minister of Grenada reminded us that the rising numbers of natural disasters are: “a great threat to  global prosperity and security.” The Indian Minister of Human Resource Development said: “We are at a critical juncture  in history. The past is collapsing and the future is uncertain.” Many statements were equally poignant. This debate has  provided us with a measure of our times. I believe it has also shown something more powerful. This is the resolve that
333  exists to respond to common challenges, to act and to act together. Nelson Mandela once said that courage is not the  absence of fear, but the triumph over it. We heard a lot about courage, in all parts of the world. We heard about the will to  act together that exists. I take this as confirmation of the commitment of Member States to UNESCO and our work to  build cooperation in education, culture, the sciences and communication. Member States agree these are precisely the  stakes of peace and sustainable development today. UNESCO was created to ensure that education, the sciences,  culture and communication do not become battlefields but bridges. This is the humanist ambition of our 1945 Constitution  – it has retained all of its vitality and rallying power today. To succeed, UNESCO must remain a universal platform for  dialogue, where all are engaged in the common pursuit of peace and committed to the values we share. To succeed, we  need continuous commitment by all, as well as financial stability. Our mandate and mission have never been in such  demand as they are today.
10.3 I have heard the high expectations all States have for UNESCO. I will ensure that UNESCO assumes the  leadership it should, according to its mandate. I am shaping this Organization to meet your expectations. I thank you for  your strong support for the root-and-branch reform we have launched. We are moving forward shoulder to shoulder, on  the basis of the recommendations of the Independent External Evaluation (IEE) of UNESCO, the work of the Executive  Board’s ad hoc working group on the IEE and the initiatives that I have taken and that I plan to take as Director-General.  This concerns all aspects of our work, including, for instance, my deep commitment to building balanced, effective  cooperation with non-governmental organizations from across the world. This unanimous support provides us with a solid  foundation. I am encouraged by this and look forward to moving forward together. To do so, the Organization needs  predictable funding at levels that are commensurate with the tasks at hand and the results expected. I know these are  difficult times for many governments. I understand that Member States are moving towards a consensus on the  alternative Draft Programme and Budget for 2012-2013, the zero nominal growth proposal. I see this as a call for the  Organization to act. I pledge to focus like a laser on proving and improving our capacity to deliver. This will guide my  action to enhance our work in the field. I thank Member States for their support for the new architecture I have proposed.  I am pleased by your attention to the multidisciplinary nature of field reform. I am aware that implementing this reform,  whose first phase concerns sub-Saharan Africa, is not without challenges. Rest assured that consultation will remain the  hallmark of this process.
10.4 A stronger UNESCO on the ground means a UNESCO that is more responsive to Member States. It also means  deeper integration into the United Nations system and a greater role in its reform. UNESCO, I believe, is today an  increasingly appreciated partner in the United Nations system. But we will continue to deepen our engagement. I thank  Member States for their continuing extrabudgetary support for UNESCO’s activities, including in new priority areas in the  Complementary Additional Programme (CAP) – notably, the Global Partnership for Girls’ and Women’s Education. I am  comforted that Member States support UNESCO’s developing new partnerships with the private sector. The draft policy  framework submitted for your consideration will reinforce this focus and ensure the coherence of partnerships with our  core values and priorities.
10.5 Ladies and gentlemen, two paramount priorities have emerged from the Leaders’ Forum general policy debate.  These are the objectives of fostering a culture of peace and sustainable development. During the Leaders’ Forum, the  Prime Minister of Kenya said: “Peace and sustainable development are two sides of the same coin. Neither can truly  exist without the other.” These words eloquently capture the spirit of our debate. Culture of peace and sustainable  development are intrinsically linked. Without peace, there can be no sustainable development. The President of Palau  was equally clear: “Development is never sustainable when there is no peace.” At the same time, endemic poverty, the  impacts of climate change and natural disasters, violations of human rights and fundamental freedoms, marginalization  and discrimination – all of these are obstacles to peace. A first conclusion is that peace starts with protecting the inherent  dignity of every woman and man – this is the basis for respecting human rights; this is the foundation for empowering  every member of society. The importance of UNESCO’s mandate lies here. Education, culture, the sciences and  communication are the building blocks for human dignity, for empowered development, for solidarity between peoples  and cultures. All Member States placed education at the heart of a culture of peace and sustainable development.  Education is a powerful development accelerator. It is also much more. It is the best way to support human rights and  citizenship, to foster tolerance and respect, to craft a new culture of sustainability.
10.6 The twenty-first century must be built in schools. This means ensuring that educational curricula and content are  free from xenophobia and intolerance and portray an inclusive approach to our history. Education for Holocaust  remembrance has a special place here. We will continue to support the community of researchers and teachers  worldwide, to produce learning materials and to facilitate educational workshops on the Holocaust, including by the  UNESCO Associated Schools Project Network (ASPnet). On 15 November, with the support of the United States,  UNESCO plans to launch a project to develop a curriculum framework for anti-racism and tolerance that countries will be  able to adapt to their needs. But, ladies and gentlemen, education is also the best way to develop the skills and  behaviours necessary for sustainability.
10.7 Many delegations called for stronger action regarding climate change education. I wish to thank Japan and  Bangladesh for their thoughtful ideas. The statement made by the representative of El Salvador also underlined the vital  importance of education. We will further promote education for sustainable development (ESD), using climate change  education as an entry point and increasing our engagement in disaster risk reduction. And then, culture lies at the heart  of our programme. I agree with Guatemala, Tunisia and many other States that peace cannot be achieved through  economic development alone. It must draw on the strength found in humanity’s cultural heritage and cultural diversity.  Indonesia poignantly described itself as “a massive living laboratory of diversity”. May I say how much I look forward to  meeting with the President of Indonesia in two days’ time. In the words of the representative of Malaysia: “Cultural  diversity must be seen as a source of strength, rather than a source of conflict.” The Minister of Education of Guatemala
334  spoke eloquently about the role of culture in a post-conflict society. These ideas underpin the UNESCO Universal  Declaration on Cultural Diversity, whose tenth anniversary we will celebrate in a special plenary on 2 November.
10.8 The UNESCO conventions provide the only framework for managing globally the opportunities and challenges  raised by cultural heritage and the diversity of cultural expressions. We must promote a positive vision of cultural  diversity and advance cultural literacy through learning, exchanges and dialogue. These are essential for fighting against  discrimination, prejudice and extremism. Cultural diversity and cultural literacy are essential forces for the renewal of our  societies. We will move forward in close cooperation with all of our partners, including the United Nations Alliance of  Civilizations (UNAOC). I thank Member States for their support for UNESCO’s work to link culture and development.  There can be no sustainable development that ignores local cultural circumstances or that puts aside the wealth of  cultural diversity. I will continue to advocate for the integration of culture into all development policies as systematically  as possible. This is not a goal in itself – it is the way to achieve all of the internationally agreed development goals  (IADGs), including the Millennium Development Goals (MDGs).
10.9 Many delegations stated that the current global crisis is also a crisis of values. I agree that we must do  everything to strengthen the values we share – especially in societies undergoing complex transitions and in countries  suffering from conflict or its consequences. Promoting freedom of expression, the free flow of information and the  development of free, independent and pluralist media is especially important in such cases. These are also core priorities  of UNESCO. This Organization will remain a fierce advocate of these fundamental freedoms, and we will take forward  the work of the United Nations to increase the safety of journalists. We will deepen our engagement to support the  development of independent media in Tunisia and Egypt and throughout the Arab world. This is an essential prerequisite  for supporting citizenship, democracy and human rights. I agree with delegations who underlined the importance of our  Management of Social Transformations (MOST) Programme. We will move ahead with the Programme’s reorientation, to  concentrate on two priorities of global significance – social inclusion and global environmental change. In this respect, I  look forward to the forthcoming Forum of Ministers of Social Development for Latin America that will be held in Honduras.
10.10 And then, Rio+20 must succeed. That is a central conclusion of this debate. Expectations are high in Member  States, and outside government buildings. UNESCO must play a key role in this success. I will bring to Rio a roadmap to  make the most of the transformative power of education, the sciences, culture and media. We must build inclusive,  equitable “green societies” along with “green economies”. The Blueprint for Ocean and Coastal Sustainability we will  launch tomorrow illustrates our unique contribution. This important document, just mentioned by the Chairperson of  UNESCO’s Intergovernmental Oceanographic Commission (IOC), as was the related side event, was produced jointly by  IOC, the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP), the Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations  (FAO) and the International Maritime Organization (IMO). The five-day Science Forum we will organize with the Brazilian  Government in Rio before the United Nations Conference provides another illustration. UNESCO’s Rio+20 roadmap  embodies our holistic, integrated approach to fostering a culture of peace and sustainable development. To succeed, we  need all your support. I count on Member States to ensure that our ideas are strongly represented in the Rio+20  outcome document. I cannot fathom an outcome document in which UNESCO’s contribution is not strongly represented.  This is part of my wider policy to strengthen the links between science and development and between science and a  culture of peace. On 9 November, I will launch UNESCO’s Biodiversity Initiative. This will promote intersectoral  collaboration on all aspects of biodiversity – from scientific to traditional and indigenous knowledge to culture, ethics and  education. I expect the Intergovernmental Science-Policy Platform on Biodiversity and Ecosystem Services (IPBES) to  be fully implemented in 2012 under the institutional co-hosting of UNESCO.
10.11 UNESCO will continue to act where needs are most acute. Many Member States called for strong action  together with the small island developing States (SIDS). We will work with these States across our mandate to address  their vulnerabilities. Our priorities are clear – climate change education for sustainable development, better opportunities  for young people, the conservation of biodiversity, reinforcing local and indigenous knowledge, and protecting cultural  heritage. I agree with the Minister of Education of the Solomon Islands, who underlined that islander cultures and  languages are the country’s greatest resource in the face of climate change. As stated by the Republic of Korea and  many others, sustainable development must build on the strength of local knowledge systems. This also relates to the  strong point made by Mali, the Plurinational State of Bolivia, Benin and other States on the need to protect indigenous  languages in danger. We know the importance of such languages for the identity of people. We also know the vital link  between them, literacy and learning. Once again, this highlights the tight connection between culture and development.
10.12 Africa, ladies and gentlemen, is a global priority in UNESCO’s work to foster a culture of peace and sustainable  development. I thank Member States for their encouragement and ideas for moving forward. The new field architecture  will allow us to respond more effectively to the needs of African societies. The development of a UNESCO strategy on  priorities with African countries will also sharpen the focus of our work. I am pleased to have signed a Memorandum of  Understanding two days ago with President Ouattara of Côte d’Ivoire. It provides a comprehensive programme of post- conflict support by UNESCO across all of our areas of competence. Our work in Africa is part of a wider focus on least  developed countries (LDCs). I will take forward the UNESCO programme that I presented to the Fourth United Nations  Conference on the Least Developed Countries (LDCs) in Istanbul last May. Education, culture, the sciences and  communication are powerful forces for poverty eradication and sustainable development, and we will make the most of  them.
10.13 I also thank Member States for their overwhelming support for our Global Priority on Gender Equality. We have  already cleared a great deal of ground, and I am determined to push forward ever more firmly. I will ensure this priority  comes through in all of our work, at Headquarters and in the field. To borrow the words of the representative of Norway  gender equality must be a “backbone”, and it will be our backbone. We will sharpen our focus on increasing the number  of women in science and empowering them to enjoy the fruits of scientific research – including, notably, through the
335  UNESCO-L’ORÉAL partnership. I agree that we must do more to integrate women into peace-building efforts. Girls and  women are disproportionately affected by conflict. They have a vital role to play in reconciliation and normalization efforts.
10.14 And then, young people are at the front of all our minds. I am so happy that I can say this in the presence of our  two very special guests whose statements we just heard, representing the Youth Forum that we held here. The  representative of Pakistan rightly noted: “Youth are the pulse of society.” Meeting young people’s expectations is  essential to peace and sustainable development. We must focus more on promoting their participation in political and  social processes, on preventing violence and on building the life skills necessary for them to succeed in careers,  education and community life. Special attention must be paid to the role of young people in post-conflict and post- disaster situations.
10.15 I will take forward the Strategy on African Youth in cooperation with the African Union Commission (AUC), and  build on recent partnerships I have signed – for instance, with the International Youth Foundation (IYF) to support youth- led innovation in Africa. I request that all Member States seriously consider the report of the seventh UNESCO Youth  Forum which we have just heard and which is being discussed in all programme commissions. The 2011 Forum was  uniquely inclusive and dynamic. We must ensure young voices come through in our work. I am aware that we can do  more, and I am determined to integrate youth more systematically throughout all of our activities.
10.16 One last point, ladies and gentlemen, on the culture of peace. I wish to request that Member States help take  UNESCO’s message to New York to ensure that our contribution is strongly represented in the General Assembly’s  current discussion of a resolution regarding the culture of peace. I appeal to Member States to better connect Paris and  New York. I cannot imagine such an important United Nations resolution being adopted without a strong endorsement of  UNESCO’s action and ideas on a culture of peace.  (The Director-General continues in French)
10.17 Madame la Présidente de la Conférence générale, Mesdames et Messieurs, je me réjouis des initiatives,  nombreuses, novatrices, lancées par nombre d’États membres pour assurer l’équité et l’inclusion dans l’éducation, ou  pour améliorer la formation des professeurs. Les mesures de gratuité adoptées dans bien des pays d’Afrique en sont  quelques exemples. J’ai l’espoir que les nouvelles initiatives de l'UNESCO pour atteindre les groupes marginalisés nous  permettront d’obtenir de nouveaux résultats. Je pense évidemment à notre Partenariat mondial pour l’éducation des filles  et des femmes, ou bien encore à notre programme éducatif en Afghanistan. À seulement quatre ans de la date fixée  pour atteindre les objectifs fixés à Dakar, notre devoir est de préparer l’après-2015, tout en accélérant encore nos efforts  jusqu’à la date butoir, parce que les résultats obtenus – ou non – et les moyens utilisés pour les atteindre nous donnent  des informations vitales pour améliorer notre action. Dans cette optique, il est essentiel de viser la qualité de l’éducation,  et pas seulement l’accroissement du nombre d’élèves inscrits, pour réaliser les objectifs du développement. Il est  essentiel de penser à l’échelle du système éducatif tout entier, depuis l’éducation de la petite enfance jusqu’à  l’enseignement supérieur.
10.18 Je tiens à réaffirmer notre engagement prioritaire en faveur des pays les plus éloignés de la réalisation des  objectifs de l’Éducation pour tous, l’accent étant mis en particulier sur l'alphabétisation, la formation des enseignants,  l’enseignement technique et la planification. Nous allons entamer les consultations sur cette stratégie au sein de la  Commission Éducation dès cette semaine. Je vous encourage à penser de façon créative et ambitieuse. À cet égard, je  vois au moins deux conditions à la réussite de notre action : la réforme de l'architecture de coordination de l’Éducation  pour tous en est une et doit absolument être menée à bien ; la recherche de sources novatrices de financement de  l'éducation en est une autre, et elle doit aboutir d’ici 2015. J’ai noté le très fort consensus autour de la formation  technique et professionnelle. Plusieurs délégations constatent le changement de perception de l’enseignement  technique, considéré autrefois comme une « voie de garage », et de plus en plus reconnu aujourd’hui comme une filière  à haute valeur ajoutée. Les étudiants s'inquiètent de savoir où leur formation les conduira, et si elle leur permettra de  participer pleinement à la vie économique et sociale. La délégation de l’Inde a fait remarquer que certaines compétences  techniques, comme la maîtrise des nouvelles technologies, sont des connaissances de base indispensables dans le  monde actuel. Mon ambition est de faire du Congrès international de l'UNESCO sur l'enseignement et la formation  techniques et professionnels, l’année prochaine en Chine, un tremplin pour la promotion et le partage des bonnes  pratiques en la matière.
10.19 Notre approche de l’école doit être résolument guidée par cette philosophie de la compétence, qui est  indissociable de la connaissance et des savoirs : compétences professionnelles, compétences civiques, compétences  environnementales. Les entreprises du secteur privé ont également beaucoup à offrir en termes d’apprentissage et  doivent faire partie intégrante de cet effort. Le double enjeu de la préparation des sociétés aux risques naturels et de  l’éducation des individus au réchauffement climatique commence à l’école, et commande d’investir massivement dans le  développement scientifique et technologique, dans la science fondamentale et appliquée. En réponse à toutes les  délégations qui appellent à un renforcement de ces activités, je veux dire que l'UNESCO entend jouer un rôle crucial  dans ce domaine, que ce soit à travers la création du réseau mondial de groupes de recherche – qui vise à évaluer les  politiques scientifiques dans leurs pays respectifs – ou bien à travers l'Observatoire mondial des instruments de politique  de science, de technologie et d’innovation, qui a pour mission d’éclairer les décisions des responsables politiques.  L’objectif du Haut Panel sur la science et le développement est aussi de nous aider à renforcer notre stratégie dans ce  domaine. C’est une vision qui rejoint, je crois, la vision du Brésil d’une « science sans frontières » et son expertise dans  ce domaine. À titre d’exemple de cette « science sans frontières » à laquelle nous aspirons tous, je voudrais saluer la  création de la réserve de biosphère transnationale de Trifinio/Fraternidad à cheval entre El Salvador, le Honduras et le  Guatemala, et la coopération entre le Belarus, l’Ukraine et la Pologne pour la création de la réserve de biosphère de
336  Polésie. Les réserves de biosphère du Programme sur l’Homme et la biosphère sont, comme les géoparcs, des outils  stratégiques pour appréhender le réchauffement climatique.
10.20 Vous avez été nombreux à saluer l’action de l’UNESCO dans les deux domaines importants des océans et de la  gestion de l’eau. La Commission océanographique intergouvernementale est effectivement l’un des programmes phares  de l’UNESCO, et nous avons vu les progrès rapides et significatifs des systèmes d’alerte aux tsunamis. C’est pourquoi –  pour répondre aux remarques de la Barbade et de la Belgique – j’ai renforcé les moyens de la Commission  océanographique de plus de 12 %. Mais ce que vous dites de positif sur l’UNESCO, vous pouvez également le dire à  l’extérieur de cette enceinte, en permettant par exemple à l’UNESCO d’acquérir le statut d’agence de projet du Fonds  pour l’environnement mondial, et nous ouvrir de nouvelles opportunités de financement. Je parle ici de ce que l’on  appelle en anglais, le GEF (Global Environnement Facility).
10.21 En ce qui concerne la question vitale de la gestion de l’eau, sur laquelle la Belgique a fortement attiré l’attention,  je veux que l’UNESCO soit un chef de file encore mieux reconnu dans ce domaine. Nous coordonnons et nous  hébergeons déjà, à Pérouse, en Italie, le Programme mondial pour l’évaluation des ressources en eau, chargé de  produire le Rapport mondial sur l’eau qui sera lancé le 12 mars 2012 à Marseille. Le Programme hydrologique  international va poursuivre son action pour accompagner les États dans la gestion de l’eau douce, dans les situations de  sécheresse comme dans la Corne de l’Afrique, et face aussi aux inondations. Le modèle de prévision des inondations  mis en place par l’UNESCO au Pakistan va servir de modèle dans d’autres pays. Tous ces efforts, comme vous l’avez  largement souligné, Mesdames et Messieurs, appellent une action conjointe et transdisciplinaire : et c’est justement  l’objectif des deux plates-formes intersectorielles sur les Petits États insulaires en développement et sur le changement  climatique, qui sont pour la première fois dotées de ressources propres. Vous avez presque tous souligné le rôle  essentiel des communautés, des langues locales, des savoir-faire autochtones, comme « agents facilitateurs » du  développement durable. La gestion de l’eau est l’un des domaines où les savoir-faire locaux, comme les systèmes  traditionnels d’irrigation, apportent des solutions très concrètes, et très solides à des millions d’individus.
10.22 Ces savoir-faire sont fragiles et peuvent être perdus. Nous avons découvert que plus de 100 000 personnes  dans le nord de l’Iraq avaient dû quitter leurs terres, faute de savoir utiliser le système d’irrigation des Karez de manière  durable. Nous avons travaillé avec le gouvernement pour réhabiliter ces ouvrages, et former les populations pour leur  apprendre à revitaliser un système qui est le seul moyen de distribuer l’eau dans certaines zones arides. J’y vois  l’essence même de notre rôle en matière de partage des savoirs et de recherche scientifique. C’est vrai dans le domaine  des sciences, et c’est aussi évidemment le cœur de notre effort de préservation de la culture. Nous en avons fait l’un des  principes directeurs de notre action pour les Conventions de 1972, de 2003 et bien sûr de 2005. J’ai noté avec plaisir  l'augmentation du taux de ratification des conventions culturelles de l'UNESCO, notamment en Afrique, et je veux redire  ici mon soutien à la mise en œuvre des activités du Fonds africain du patrimoine mondial. Je suis consciente de la  nécessité de faire davantage dans des situations particulières comme celles des pays insulaires, qu’ont évoquées les  Comores, Sainte-Lucie et Trinité-et-Tobago, aux territoires dispersés, fragilisés dans leurs efforts pour préserver la  culture de leurs sous-régions. Reste à protéger la crédibilité de ces conventions, qui est la condition de leur autorité. Un  plan d'action stratégique a été développé à ce sujet par le Comité du patrimoine mondial, et j'espère qu'il sera adopté  par l'Assemblée générale des États parties dans quelques jours.
10.23 La prochaine session du Comité du patrimoine culturel immatériel, à Bali, en Indonésie, doit également se  prononcer sur les mesures à prendre pour garantir la crédibilité du processus d’inscription. Quant à la Convention de
1970, Mesdames et Messieurs, sur le trafic illicite des biens culturels, la réunion que nous aurons l’an prochain sera, je  l’espère, une nouvelle étape décisive de son renforcement, et je remercie le Mexique, et bien d’autres pays, pour l’appui  qu’ils ont exprimé à cet égard dans leur intervention ces derniers jours. J’ai fait de la lutte contre le trafic des biens  culturels une priorité personnelle, et je tiens à assurer le représentant de la Côte d'Ivoire de notre détermination totale à  soutenir le Musée des civilisations d'Abidjan dans sa lutte pour récupérer les objets volés. Interpol a été alerté et nous  allons nous rendre sur place. J'ai entendu aussi les Seychelles, le Cambodge, le Kenya, mais aussi le Brésil et les  Émirats arabes unis, parmi d’autres, souligner le potentiel du patrimoine et des industries culturelles pour le  développement national. La valorisation de la diversité culturelle est aussi une source de développement, et je remercie  le Malawi d’avoir très clairement rappelé cette réalité. Nous allons donc poursuivre nos efforts dans ce domaine et je  veux appuyer les interventions de la Bulgarie et de la Slovénie sur la nécessité d’une éducation des jeunes à la diversité  culturelle et à la protection du patrimoine.
10.24 La version pour les jeunes de la Déclaration universelle sur la diversité culturelle mais aussi le programme « Le  patrimoine mondial aux mains des jeunes » sont un début, mais nous pouvons faire beaucoup plus, surtout en ces  temps de « dissémination culturelle » comme l’a souligné le Président des Palaos. Ce lien entre culture et éducation est  effectivement capital et détermine la citoyenneté mondiale de demain. Je remercie d’ailleurs le Zimbabwe de ses  commentaires positifs concernant notre travail pour l'utilisation pédagogique de l'Histoire générale de l'Afrique de  l'UNESCO. Tout ce travail en faveur de la préservation, de la mise en valeur et du partage des cultures et des langues  ne fait que souligner le rôle essentiel des nouvelles technologies et l’immense potentiel qu’elles représentent. Plusieurs  pays ont noté l'importance du Programme Mémoire du monde, qui fêtera l'an prochain son 20e anniversaire, et je tiens à  remercier la Pologne et le Cambodge de leur appui à ce programme. En réponse aux remarques de la France, sur  l’importance de la numérisation des contenus culturels, je suis heureuse d'annoncer l’organisation, au mois de  septembre 2012, d’une conférence internationale spécialement consacrée à cette question, dont le principal objectif sera  de dégager des lignes directrices pour une numérisation durable.
10.25 Associées au respect de la liberté d’expression et au pluralisme des médias, qui permet le partage des points  de vue, les nouvelles technologies sont effectivement un moteur de croissance et d’innovation sociale stratégiques.  L’UNESCO met tout en œuvre pour que les individus puissent les utiliser au mieux. L’UNESCO a un rôle à jouer pour
337  résorber la fracture numérique et mettre le potentiel de ces outils au service de l’éducation et de la réalisation des  individus. Je vais lancer tout à l’heure la deuxième édition du Référentiel de compétences pour les enseignants en  technologies de l’information et de la communication, dont l’objectif est de mettre le potentiel des nouvelles technologies  au service de l’éducation, en partenariat avec Microsoft, CISCO, Intel, et d’autres sociétés privées. Le lancement de la  plate-forme de l’UNESCO sur les ressources éducatives libres est aussi une première, et en réponse à l’intervention du  Mali, je voudrais souligner notre accord avec l’Union économique et monétaire ouest-africaine pour la création de  bibliothèques virtuelles en Afrique. Notre projet vise à relier entre elles les universités de huit pays de la région. C’est  une forme d’intégration régionale en laquelle je crois beaucoup, et les commentaires positifs de la Lituanie sur des  projets similaires de bibliothèques connectées en Europe m’encouragent dans ce sens.
10.26 Mesdames, Messieurs, pour conclure, je dirais que plusieurs idées transversales se dégagent. La nécessité de  jouer sur tous les leviers de la « durabilité » en est une. La notion de pleine réalisation de l’individu en est une autre.  Cette confiance – et cette exigence – placée dans la réalisation du potentiel des individus, des hommes et des femmes,  cela porte un nom. Cela s’appelle l’humanisme. C’est en allant puiser dans les ressources de l’intelligence humaine, par  l’éducation, les sciences, la culture – en cherchant à réaliser pleinement ce qui lui revient en propre – que l’humanité, qui  a déjà été confrontée à des impasses et mise en demeure de trouver de nouveaux modèles de développement, a  toujours réussi à se réinventer et à repenser sa façon d’être au monde. Nous sommes à l’un de ces tournants de  l’histoire qui nous appelle, comme l’a souligné Singapour, à un supplément de pensée critique, et à davantage de  pensée créative. Les bouleversements nous poussent à refonder le projet humaniste de pleine réalisation des individus  comme clé de voûte d’un nouveau modèle de développement. Nous avons tous intérêt à le faire. C’est un enjeu qui  concerne tous les pays, les moins avancés, les émergents, les développés, du Nord comme du Sud.
10.27 J’ai entendu, clairement, les attentes, immenses, des pays qui s’en remettent à l’UNESCO. Cette confiance  nous honore et nous oblige – et l’UNESCO doit avoir tous les moyens humains et matériels d’y répondre. J’ai entendu,  avec émotion, la délégation de la République de Corée nous rappeler le souvenir des convois de l’UNESCO qui  distribuaient dans les années 1950 des manuels gratuits pour assurer l’éducation des enfants d’un pays dévasté par la  guerre. Qui aurait pu croire, à cette époque, que ce pays deviendrait si vite l’une des démocraties les plus prospères, en  misant sur l’éducation comme principal moteur de son développement ? Aujourd’hui, comme il y a 60 ans, nous avons  besoin, pour accompagner tous ces hommes et toutes ces femmes qui croient en l’UNESCO, d’un engagement sans  faille, nous avons besoin de ressources, et je dirais même que nous avons besoin d’un surcroît d’humanisme – un  nouvel humanisme qui nous paraît peut-être inaccessible comme un rêve aujourd’hui, mais qui est justement d’autant  plus nécessaire si, à en croire André Malraux, l’homme est effectivement un être qui se construit en poursuivant ce qui le  dépasse ». Je vous remercie de votre attention.
11. The President:   Thank you very much, Madam Director-General. Thank you very much.  Report of the Legal Committee on item 4.2 “Consideration and adoption of the Draft Programme and Budget for
2012/2013 (36 C/5)” – Appeals for admissibility of draft resolutions relating to the Draft Programme and Budget  for 2012-2013 (36 C/5) (36 C/78)  Rapport du Comité juridique sur le point 4.2 «Examen et adoption du Projet de programme et de budget pour
12. The President:   Ladies and gentlemen, dear colleagues, we will now listen to the reports by the Legal Committee. In this regard,  I am pleased to give the floor to the Chairperson of the Legal Committee, Ms Victoria Hallum, who will present six reports  of the Committee. The first report is on item 4.2 concerning the appeals for admissibility of draft resolutions relating to the  draft programme and budget. The report is contained in document 36 C/78. Madam Chairperson, you have the floor.
13.1 Ms Hallum (New Zealand) (Chairperson of the Legal Committee):   Madam President of the General Conference, Madam Chair of the Executive Board, Madam Director-General,  Excellencies, ladies and gentlemen, please allow me to present the first report of the Legal Committee contained in  document 36 C/78. This report concerns the examination of communications of draft resolutions proposing the adoption  of amendments to the Draft Programme and Budget for 2012-2013.
13.2 As you already know, at its 29th session the General Conference adopted a procedure for processing draft  resolutions that, at first sight, appear inadmissible in the opinion of the Director-General. This procedure foresees the
338  possibility of appealing to the General Conference to rule at last instance on their admissibility. It is for the Legal  Committee to examine the appeals submitted by Member States concerning draft resolutions rejected by the Director- General. The Legal Committee examined only one draft resolution, MS/DR.47, deemed inadmissible by the Director- General. In this respect, the Committee decided that this draft resolution be declared inadmissible because it did not  concern one of the operative paragraphs of the Draft Programme and Budget for 2012-2013.
13.3 Nevertheless, the Legal Committee invited the representative of the country that sponsored that draft resolution,  which proposed an improvement to the wording of the narrative part of document 36 C/5, to continue the dialogue with  the Director-General in order to achieve that result by means other than the submission of a draft resolution. Thank you,  Madam President.
14. The President:   Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, may I consider that the plenary wishes to take note of the report  of the Committee contained in document 36 C/78? I see no objections, it is so decided. Thank you.   Report of the Legal Committee on item 8.3 “Summary of the reports received by Member States on the measures  taken for the implementation of the 1970 Convention on the Means of Prohibiting and Preventing the Illicit Im- port, Export and Transfer of Ownership of Cultural Property” (36 C/79)  Rapport du Comité juridique sur le point 8.3 “Résumé des rapports reçus des États membres sur les mesures  prises en vue de la mise en œuvre de la Convention de 1970 concernant les mesures à prendre pour interdire  et empêcher l’importation, l’exportation et le transfert de propriété illicites des biens culturels” (36 C/79)  Informe del Comité Jurídico sobre el punto 8.3 “Resumen de los informes recibidos de los Estados Miembros  sobre las medidas adoptadas para la aplicación de la Convención de 1970 sobre las Medidas que deben adop- tarse para Prohibir e Impedir la Importación, la Exportación y la Transferencia de Propiedad Ilícitas de Bienes  Culturales” (36 C/79)  Доклад Юридического комитета по пункту 8.3 «Резюме полученных от государств-членов докладов о ме- рах, принятых с целью осуществления Конвенции 1970 г. о мерах, направленных на запрещение и пре- дупреждение незаконного ввоза, вывоза и передачи права собственности на культурные ценности»
15. The President:   I now invite Ms Hallum to present to us the second report pertaining to item 8.3, contained in document 36 C/79.  Madam Chairperson, you have the floor.
16.1 Ms Hallum (New Zealand) (Chairperson of the Legal Committee):   Thank you, Madam President. This second report, contained in document 36 C/79, is related to item 8.3, that is  to say the summary of the reports received from Member States on the measures taken to implement the 1970 Conven- tion on the Means of Prohibiting and Preventing the Illicit Import, Export and Transfer of Ownership of Cultural Property.
16.2 The Legal Committee made some amendments to the draft resolution proposed in the working document in or- der to improve the legal accuracy of the wording. You will find in paragraph 4 of document 36 C/79 the draft resolution as  amended by the Legal Committee, for adoption by the plenary. Thank you, Madam President.
17. The President:   Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, may I consider that the General Conference wishes to take note  of the report in document 36 C/79 and adopt the draft resolution contained in paragraph 4 therein, as amended? I see no  objections. It is so decided.   Report of the Legal Committee on item 8.6 “Consolidated report on the implementation by Member States of the
18. The President:   And now, Ms Hallum will present her third report.
19.1 Ms Hallum (New Zealand) (Chairperson of the Legal Committee):   Thank you, Madam President. The third report of the Legal Committee, reproduced in document 36 C/80,  concerns item 8.6 on the consolidated report on the implementation by Member States of the 1980 Recommendation  concerning the Status of the Artist.
19.2 After having taken note of this report, supplemented by the comments made on this subject by the Committee  on Conventions and Recommendations of the Executive Board at its 187th session, the Legal Committee decided to  recommend that the General Conference adopt the draft resolution contained in the working document. This draft  resolution is reproduced in paragraph 2 of the report of the Committee, that is to say, document 36 C/80. Thank you,  Madam President.
20. The President:   Thank you very much, Ms Hallum. Ladies and gentlemen, may I request that the plenary take note of the third  report of the Legal Committee contained in document 36 C/80 and adopt the draft resolution contained therein? I see no  objections. It is so decided.   Report of the Legal Committee on item 8.4 “Consolidated report on the implementation by Member States of the
2003 Recommendation concerning the Promotion and Use of Multilingualism and Universal Access to Cyber- space” (36 C/LEG/4)  Rapport du Comité juridique sur le point 8.4 “Rapport de synthèse sur l’application par les États membres de la  Recommandation de 2003 sur la promotion et l'usage du multilinguisme et l'accès universel au cyberespace”
21. The President:   And could I now ask Ms Hallum to present to the plenary the fifth and sixth reports.
22.1 Ms Hallum (New Zealand) (Chairperson of the Legal Committee):   Thank you, Madam President. I think we are up to the fourth report of the Legal Committee, reproduced in  document 36 C/LEG/4, which concerns item 8.4 on the Consolidated Report on the implementation by Member States of  the 2003 Recommendation concerning the Promotion and Use of Multilingualism and Universal Access to Cyberspace.
22.2 After recalling the importance of the 2003 Recommendation, the Legal Committee considered that the  Secretariat should demonstrate flexibility and make reference in the working document to the reports received after the  deadline, especially since several months had passed between the examination of the consolidated report by the  Executive Board and its transmission to the General Conference. The Legal Committee made only one amendment to  the draft resolution contained in paragraph 10 of document 36 C/26, with a view to mentioning that three further reports  were submitted shortly after the second consultation.
22.3 As requested by the plenary upon recommendation of the General Committee, this fourth report containing the  draft resolution as amended by the Legal Committee has been transmitted to the Communication and Information (CI)  Commission which will recommend the final draft resolution for adoption by the plenary, in the framework of its report to  be submitted in the next few days. Thank you, Madam President.
23. The President:   Thank you very much. May I ask the General Conference to take note of this report? I see no objections. It is so  decided.  Report of the Legal Committee on item 8.5 “Consolidated report on the implementation by Member States of the
1993 Recommendation on the Recognition of Studies and Qualifications in Higher Education” (36 C/LEG/5)  Rapport du Comité juridique sur le point 8.5 “Rapport de synthèse sur l’application par les États membres de la  Recommandation de 1993 sur la reconnaissance des études et des titres de l’enseignement supérieur” (36  C/LEG/5)  Informe del Comité Jurídico sobre el punto 8.5 “Informe de síntesis sobre la aplicación por los Estados Miem- bros de la Recomendación de 1993 sobre la Convalidación de los Estudios, Títulos y Diplomas de Enseñanza  Superior” (36 C/LEG/5)  Доклад Юридического комитета по пункту 8.5 «Сводный доклад об осуществлении государствами- членами Рекомендации 1993 г. о признании учебных курсов и свидетельств о высшем образовании»
(36 C/LEG/5)
(36 C/LEG/6)
24. The President:   Ms Hallum, the floor is yours.
25.1 Ms Hallum (New Zealand) (Chairperson of the Legal Committee):   Thank you, Madam President. The fifth and sixth reports of the Legal Committee, reproduced in documents
36 C/LEG/5 and 36 C/LEG/6, are respectively related to item 8.5 “Consolidated report on the implementation by Member  States of the 1993 Recommendation on the Recognition of Studies and Qualifications in Higher Education” and
8.7 “Consolidated report on the implementation by Member States of the 1976 Recommendation on the Development of  Adult Education”. After having taken note of this report, supplemented by the comments made on this subject by the  Committee on Conventions and Recommendations of the Executive Board at its 187th session, as well as the further  information provided by the representative of the Director-General, the Legal Committee made only minor amendments  to each draft resolution contained in the working documents, to correct errors in the various language texts and to include  a reference to the decision taken by the Executive Board at its last session.
25.2 As requested by the plenary upon recommendation of the General Committee, these reports containing the draft  resolutions as amended by the Legal Committee have been transmitted to the Education Commission, which will  recommend the final draft resolutions for adoption by the plenary, in the framework of its report. Thank you, Madam  President.
26. The President:   Thank you, Ms Hallum. Ladies and gentlemen, may I request that the plenary take note of the fifth and sixth re- ports of the Legal Committee contained in documents 36 C/LEG/5 and 36 C/LEG/6? I see no objections, it is so decided.  Second report by the Chairperson of the Credentials Committee  Deuxième rapport du Président du Comité de vérification des pouvoirs  Segundo informe del Presidente del Comité de Verificación de Poderes  Второй доклад Председателя Комитета по проверке полномочий   التقرير الثاني لرئيس لجنة فحص وثائق االعتماد 全权证书委员会主席的第二次报告
27. The President:   And now, ladies and gentlemen, we will listen to the second report by the Chairperson of the Credentials  Committee, Ambassador Uffe Andreasen. You have the floor, Sir.
28. M. Andreasen (Danemark) (Président du Comité de vérification des pouvoirs) :   Madame la Présidente de la Conférence générale, Madame la Présidente du Conseil exécutif, Madame la  Directrice générale de l'UNESCO, Excellences, Mesdames et Messieurs, depuis la lecture de mon premier rapport, en  séance plénière, le 29 octobre 2011, le Comité a reçu les pouvoirs en bonne et due forme de la délégation de l’État  membre dont le nom s’affiche à l’écran. Le Comité a également reçu les pouvoirs en bonne et due forme des délégations  des États membres dont la liste s’affiche à l’écran et qui avaient auparavant présenté des pouvoirs provisoires.  Conformément à l’autorisation qui m’a été donnée par le Comité de vérification des pouvoirs, je propose que la  Conférence générale accepte ces pouvoirs. Les délégations des États membres dont la liste s’affiche à l’écran n’ont pas  encore présenté de pouvoirs. Les délégations des membres associés dont la liste s’affiche à l’écran n’ont pas encore  présenté de pouvoirs. La délégation d’observateurs dont le nom s’affiche à l’écran n’a pas encore présenté de pouvoirs.  Merci, Madame la Présidente.
29.1 The President:   Thank you very much, Ambassador Andreasen. Are there any comments on this report? May I consider that the  General Conference wishes to take note of the second report by the Chairperson of the Credentials Committee? I see no  objections. It is so decided.
29.2 Ladies and gentlemen, we have finished our work for today. The plenary will reconvene on Wednesday morning  at 10 a.m. to celebrate the tenth anniversary of the Universal Declaration on Cultural Diversity. Now I would like to give  the floor to the Secretary, who will make some announcements. Thank you.  Announcements  Annonces  Anuncios  Сообщения   إعالنات 通知
30. The Secretary:   Thank you, Madam President. This is to announce that, following the special plenary meeting on Wednesday  morning, in the afternoon of Wednesday 2 November there will be a special plenary meeting to announce the results of  the election of Members of the Executive Board. On this occasion, Madam President, you will also report on the third  meeting of the General Committee, which will take place tomorrow morning at 9 a.m. in Room X. There is a second  announcement. The launch of the publication UNESCO ICT Competency Framework for Teachers, version 2.0, is being  held under the auspices of the Director-General this evening from 6.30 p.m. to 7.30 p.m. in Room X. You are all cordially  invited to attend. Thank you, Madam President.
31. The President:   Thank you very much. So, tomorrow morning at 9 o’clock, I am going to meet the members of the General  Committee in Room X and the next plenary will be the day after, at 10 o’clock. I wish you a pleasant evening. The  meeting is now adjourned.  The meeting rose at 6.00 p.m.  La séance est levée à 18 h 00   Se levanta la sesión a las 18.00  Заседание закрывается в 18.00  مساه ٦,٠ رفعت اسلسة يف الساعة    会议于 18 时结束