150  Report of the General Committee  Rapport du Bureau de la Conférence   Informe de la Mesa de la Conferencia  Доклад Президиума     تقرير مكتب المؤتمر العام 总务委员会的报告
1. The President:   Your Excellencies, good morning. Ladies and gentlemen, dear friends, I declare open the seventh plenary  session of the General Conference. Before we continue with the national statements that we started yesterday, I would  like to inform the plenary that the General Committee had its second meeting this morning. The Committee discussed the  proceedings of work in the commissions and committees, as well as the agenda for plenary meetings. We are still in the  first week of our session, but I am pleased to inform you that the work of subsidiary bodies is fully on schedule. Later this  morning we will have the pleasure of hearing from the Chairperson of one of these bodies, just before we break for lunch.  Ms Alessandra Cummins will present her oral report on item 4.4, which was discussed in the Administrative Commission  she is chairing. And now, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to give the floor to the Secretary of the General Committee,  Mr Millward, to summarize what we did in the General Committee this morning. Thank you.
2. The Secretary:   Thank you, Madam President. The first point I would like to make is that the General Committee recommends  that three items of the agenda, which have already been examined by the Legal Committee, should also be referred, for  examination, to two programme commissions. The items are 8.5 “Consolidated report on the implementation by Member  States of the 1993 Recommendation on the Recognition of Studies and Qualifications in Higher Education” and 8.7  “Consolidated report on the implementation by Member States of the 1976 Recommendation on the Development of  Adult Education”, which would be placed on the agenda of the Education Commission. Furthermore, item 8.4  “Consolidated report on the implementation by Member States of the 2003 Recommendation concerning the Promotion  and Use of Multilingualism and Universal Access to Cyberspace” would be placed on the agenda of the Communication  and Information (CI) Commission. The General Committee also decided to recommend to the General Conference that  item 5.18, “Climate Change: mitigation and adaptation policy development and implementation in the Caribbean region”,  given its intersectoral nature, be withdrawn from the agenda of the Science Commission and attributed, for examination,  to the joint meeting of commissions. The General Committee also recommends that item 5.21, “Promoting the diversity of  cultural expressions, their protection, and the combat of Internet piracy”, currently attributed to both the Culture (CLT)  and CI Commissions, be examined exclusively by the CLT Commission. And lastly, concerning the scheduling of the  examination by the plenary of item 9.1, “Request for the admission of Palestine to UNESCO”, the General Committee  has agreed by consensus to schedule this item for Monday morning, at the end of the national statements. Thank you,  Madam President.  General policy debate (continued)  Débat de politique générale (suite)  Debate de política general (continuación)  Обсуждение вопросов общей политики (продолжение)  جتابع) مناقشة السياسة العامة   总政策辩论（续）
3. The President:   Thank you Mr Secretary. And now, dear Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, the whole day today will be dedicated  to national statements, and we will listen to 29 speakers this morning, so we again need to be punctual and really bear in  mind the six-minute limit. As I said yesterday, we have the same visual and sound system as yesterday, with a piece of  world music playing in crescendo after the allotted time limit. And now, Your Excellencies, I have the honour of calling on  our first speaker of this morning, the Deputy Prime Minister of Uzbekistan. Your Excellency Mr Abdulla Nigmatovich  Aripov, the floor is yours.
4.1 M. Aripov (Ouzbékistan) (discours prononcé en ouzbek ; texte français fourni par la délégation) :    Madame la Présidente de la Conférence générale, Madame la Présidente du Conseil exécutif, Madame la  Directrice générale, Excellences, Mesdames et Messieurs les Ministres, les chefs de délégation et les représentants  d’organisations internationales, Mesdames et Messieurs, Madame Katalina Bogyay, permettez-moi de m’associer aux  félicitations qui vous ont été adressées à l'occasion de votre élection aux fonctions de Présidente de la Conférence  générale, et de vous souhaiter sincèrement le plein succès dans l’exercice de ces fonctions. Je tiens aussi à remercier  M. Davidson Hepburn pour le travail qu’il a accompli ces deux dernières années.
4.2 Au cours de ces deux années, la mise en place de conditions préalables à des réformes importantes au sein du  système des Nations Unies a commencé. Ces réformes sont conçues pour appliquer le principe d'une action concertée à  l’échelle du système. Nous appuyons en particulier le passage à un cycle de planification quadriennal pour le  programme de l'UNESCO, avec adoption du budget tous les deux ans. La République d'Ouzbékistan soutient la version  alternative du budget et le programme pour 2012-2013 proposés par la Directrice générale de l’UNESCO. Les priorités  globales et l’orientation des programmes présentées dans la version alternative doivent guider et garantir la réussite de  la mise en œuvre de la phase finale de la Stratégie à moyen terme pour 2008-2013. À cet égard, il est nécessaire
151  d'introduire le principe qui consiste à exécuter davantage de programmes avec moins de frais administratifs et à  s’employer activement à attirer des fonds extrabudgétaires pour la mise en œuvre des principaux domaines d'action, en  partenariat étroit avec les organisations internationales, régionales et nationales. Nous exprimons notre gratitude à la  Directrice générale, Mme Irina Bokova, pour son action décisive en matière d’harmonisation et de collaboration  intersectorielle au sein du Secrétariat de l’UNESCO et de ses bureaux hors Siège.
4.3 Mesdames et Messieurs, en 2012, l’Organisation des Nations Unies organisera une conférence sur le  développement durable (Rio + 20). Cette même année, nous célébrerons le 40e anniversaire du Programme de  l’UNESCO sur l’Homme et la biosphère. Il est important que notre Organisation présente, lors de la Conférence des  Nations Unies, les meilleurs exemples de mise en œuvre de programmes spécifiques dans le cadre d’Action 21. Je  voudrais d’ailleurs attirer votre attention sur le problème de la catastrophe écologique globale liée à l’assèchement de la  mer d'Aral. Aujourd’hui, la région de la mer d'Aral est en proie à des problèmes non seulement environnementaux, mais  aussi socioéconomiques et démographiques, qui ont des conséquences planétaires. Le Secrétaire général de l'ONU,  M. Ban Ki-moon, a pu lui-même constater la situation lors de sa visite en 2010.
4.4 Dans le discours qu’il a prononcé en septembre 2010 à la séance plénière du Sommet des Nations Unies sur  les Objectifs du Millénaire pour le développement, le Président de l’Ouzbékistan, M. Islam Karimov, a défini la  sauvegarde du fonds biologique naturel de la région de la mer d'Aral comme l’un des devoirs les plus importants dont il  faut s’acquitter aujourd’hui, en réduisant l’impact néfaste de la crise de la mer d’Aral sur l'environnement, et surtout sur la  vie de centaines de milliers d'habitants de la région. Il est important de prendre en considération le fait que la région de  la mer d'Aral est alimentée en eau par deux grands fleuves : l'Amou-Daria et le Syr-Daria, et que toute réduction de  l’apport d’eau de ces fleuves porte fondamentalement atteinte à l'équilibre écologique de cette vaste région déjà fragile.  À cet égard, l'UNESCO mène une initiative importante à travers un projet multidisciplinaire à long terme sur les formes  novatrices de gestion des ressources en eau et des terres dans la région de la mer d'Aral. Ce projet extrabudgétaire de  l'UNESCO est mis en œuvre en Ouzbékistan avec le concours du Gouvernement allemand.
4.5 Au cours des dix dernières années, ce projet a permis de former une cinquantaine de titulaires de doctorat et de  master, et plus d’une centaine de spécialistes de divers domaines (éducation, sciences exactes et naturelles, sciences  sociales et humaines, culture), ce qui a donné lieu à la création de la Chaire UNESCO en éducation pour le  développement durable à l'Université d'Ourgentch. Parallèlement aux recherches interdisciplinaires et à l’intégration du  développement durable dans le cursus, ce centre de recherche mène des activités concrètes visant à promouvoir  l'innovation pour les agriculteurs, ce qui offre un bon exemple des réseaux de coopération mis en place avec divers  organismes locaux de la région. Actuellement, d'autres organismes des Nations Unies ont lancé des projets similaires  dans d'autres régions du bassin de la mer d'Aral. Ce projet en lien avec une décennie de l'UNESCO est le meilleur  exemple de la contribution qu’apporte l’Organisation à la mise en œuvre d’Action 21. J’espère que l’expérience de  l'Ouzbékistan sera mise à profit dans le cadre de la plate-forme intersectorielle de l'UNESCO sur le changement  climatique. Je vous remercie.
(6.1) Prince Faisal Al Saud (Saudi Arabia) (translation from the Arabic):   In the name of God, the Merciful, the Clement; praise be to God, Lord of the Worlds. Madam President of the  General Conference, Madam Chair of the Executive Board, Madam Director-General of UNESCO, ladies and gentlemen,  heads of delegations, I have come to you from the land of peace, the land where Islam arose, the land where the first word we  greet people we meet with is “peace”. Peace and the mercy and blessings of God be upon you. It is indeed fortunate that our  General Conference and the three organs of our Organization are now all headed by three capable women, which reflects the  principle of a balance of competencies and equality of opportunities. Women in Saudi Arabia have begun to take their place in  decision-making thanks to the perceptiveness of the Custodian of the Two Holy Mosques, King Abdullah bin Abdulaziz, who  has given the green light to numerous reformist decisions with respect to Saudi women, as he has also done, may God  preserve him, with respect to other reform matters at the local, regional and international levels.
(6.2) Ladies and gentlemen, we celebrate today the tenth anniversary of the UNESCO Universal Declaration on Cultural  Diversity, which was adopted in 2001 ‒ a great step; but we need to redouble our efforts to achieve such diversity in  international fora. Saudi Arabia is pleased with UNESCO’s interest in the culture of peace and dialogue as witnessed by the  numerous items to be debated by this General Conference, including the proclamation of an international decade for the  rapprochement of cultures, the Universal Forum of Cultures, and the strengthening and protection of the diversity of cultural  expressions. Saudi Arabia has remained actively supportive of this trend, as part of our cooperation with UNESCO in  launching the King Abullah bin Abdulaziz International Programme for the Culture of Dialogue. Only two weeks ago, on 13  October, an agreement was signed in Vienna for the establishment of the King Abudullah bin Abulaziz International Centre for  Interreligious and Intercultural Dialogue, in cooperation with the Kingdom of Spain and the Republic of Austria.
(6.3) Ladies and gentlemen, on 23 September last in Saudi Arabia, the Saudi Messengers of Peace project was launched  under the patronage of the Custodian of the Two Holy Mosques in the presence of His Highness King Carl XVI Gustaf of  Sweden, Honorary Chair of the World Scout Foundation, with the participation of 8,000 scouts who came from all over the  world to proclaim and bear a single common message to them all, which is “peace”, which is why the Custodian of the Two  Holy Mosques named them Messengers of Peace, and allocated to the project some $37 million for the next ten years, under  the patronage of two kings, who have joined efforts in voluntary work and dialogue in the hope of bringing the message to  more than 30 million scouts. I have come to this General Conference with the hope of discussing with Her Excellency the  Director-General of UNESCO the possibility of adding a third partner to the Messengers of Peace project, whereby we hope it  will be possible for young people from various parts of the world to inculcate the concept of dialogue and voluntary work for co- existence despite differences, and dialogue without divergences.
(6.4) Ladies and gentlemen, when we speak of “peace”, the Palestinian question always comes to the fore: the more we  delay in solving it, the more difficult it becomes to bring the peace we desire to the region and to the entire world. How can we  speak of peace when we avert our eyes from the justest of causes: the cause of the Palestinian people, who only want to have  their own homeland, like the rest of humankind. Can you imagine the feelings of a person without a homeland? On this basis,  here reiterate the absolute, unfailing support of Saudi Arabia for Palestine to be admitted to UNESCO as a full Member State,  and for the role that will play in consecrating the rights of the Palestinians within the spheres of competence of the  Organization, and especially the right to education for all, to the protection of the heritage and the historical Islamic and  Christian antiquities in Jerusalem and other Palestinian cities. We must remain vigilant against any disinformation concerning  the inscription of the Ibrāhīmī Mosque and the Mosque of Bilāl ibn Rabāḥ on the Israeli Heritage List. Saudi Arabia, ladies and  gentlemen, supports the adoption of a resolution as recommended by the decision adopted by the Executive Board last month  to recognize the State of Palestine as a full Member State of UNESCO, and urges the Member States to adopt that resolution  at the General Conference, and thereby to uphold the right of Palestinians to their homeland, in the service of the regional and  world peace to which we all aspire.
(6.5) Allow me to offer on behalf of the Custodian of the Two Holy Mosques and the Saudi people, sincere thanks and  gratitude to Her Excellency the Director-General of UNESCO, Ms Irina Bokova, and to His Excellency Mr Davidson Hepburn,  the previous President of the General Conference, for their gracious joint initiative, when opening the General Conference, of  offering condolences on the death of Prince Sultan. Finally, allow me to renew my thanks and appreciation to the Director- General of UNESCO, Ms Irina Bokova, for her outstanding performance and sincere efforts to ensure that our Organization  attains a more influential status in the service of the goals of human peace and progress. Peace and the mercy and blessings  of God be upon you.
7.  The President:    Thank you very much for your statement, Your Excellency. And now it is a great pleasure for me to welcome the  Minister of Education of Nigeria. Your Excellency Ms Ruqayyatu Ahmed Rufa’i, the floor is yours.
8.1 Ms Rufa’i (Nigeria):   Madam President, distinguished delegates, let me first of all convey to all of you who are assembled at this  august occasion, the greetings and goodwill of the President of the Federal Republic of Nigeria, His Excellency, Dr  Goodluck Ebele Jonathan, GCFR, and the entire people of Nigeria for a successful conference. Madam President, a  large number of momentous events have occurred in various parts of the world since the 35th session of the General  Conference. These events include, inter alia, devastating natural disasters, terrorist activities, and political movements,  many of which were driven by youth and via information and communication technologies. Nigeria wishes to reiterate its  solidarity with and condolences to all the nations that were adversely affected by these unfortunate events. Madam  President, it is in this light that Nigeria wishes to acknowledge the solidarity of the international community following the  unfortunate bomb blast at the United Nations building in Abuja, Nigeria, on 26 August this year. The Government and  people of Nigeria sympathize with the global United Nations family and the immediate families of the victims. Let me  reiterate here that Nigeria aligns with the United Nations in the cause of achieving global peace. The bomb blast incident  has only strengthened our resolve to ensure the achievement of this noble objective. In line with the Government’s  resolve to provide temporary accommodation to the United Nations body, the Federal Ministry of Education has relocated  the UNESCO Office in Abuja to other office accommodation. Nigeria strongly supports the ongoing reform programme of  UNESCO at all levels, which, as stated by the Director-General, constitutes a key element and strategy for the  improvement of UNESCO’s delivery and visible participation at the country grassroots level. Referring specifically to the  UNESCO field office reform, Nigeria supports the replacement of the current three-tier structure of the field offices by a  simplified two-tier structure comprising a multisectoral regional presence and a flexible country presence, with an  appropriate complement of staff comprising-high-level professional experts.
8.2 Madam President, Nigeria is satisfied with the priorities and main lines of action of Major Programme I, as they  cover the key areas of concerns and needs specific to sub-Saharan Africa in general, and Nigeria’s transformation  agenda in particular. You will recall that Nigeria, having hosted the Eighth E-9 Ministerial Review Meeting in June 2010,  is currently the Chair of the Nine High-Population Countries (E-9) forum. Since we assumed the chairship of the E-9,  Nigeria has been engaged in a number of activities to demonstrate our resolve and commitment to take literacy to the  next level and to ensure that Nigeria meets the internationally agreed targets. One major achievement is the  institutionalization of a self-benefiting Funds-in-Trust with UNESCO to the tune of $6.4 million to carry out the programme  on revitalizing adult and youth literacy in Nigeria. Allow me to express our appreciation to the Executive Board for  adopting the reports on the feasibility study for establishing two category 2 centres in Nigeria. It is our belief that the  establishment of the regional centre for integrated river basin management and the international centre for biotechnology  would provide the impetus for thorough institutional research and capacity building. Nigeria notes that the priorities in  Major Programme III reaffirm UNESCO’s role in supporting Member States’ responses to social transformations, notably  to promote democracy and sustainable development for the consolidation of a culture of peace and non-violence. In  keeping with the UNESCO framework, we intend to achieve our goal, not only by popularizing science but also through  indigenous culture and language. Madam President, efforts are being made to harness our vast multicultural potential for  investment purposes, wealth creation and empowerment of youth and women, using UNESCO instruments as guides for  implementation. We are giving attention to strengthening national legislation on copyright to protect intellectual property  rights in order to strengthen the fast-growing entertainment and movie industry in Nigeria. In recognition of the  importance of freedom of expression and universal access to information and knowledge, Nigeria has enacted the  Freedom of Information Act to promote good governance and has also liberalized the issuance of licences for community  radio and multimedia centres.
8.3 Madam President, Nigeria supports the main thrust of the Director-General’s proposed budget, which  encapsulates our vision of the expected results of the ongoing “root-to-apex” reform. Nigeria has carefully considered the  merits and demerits of the two budget scenarios presented by the Director-General. Although Nigeria prefers the zero  real growth option over zero nominal growth, in order that the Director-General may be enabled to reasonably deliver on  the multifaceted and complex tasks of UNESCO, we will join the consensus that seems to have emerged from the  consideration of the Director-General’s assurance that in her view this alternative option, zero nominal growth, will  provide alternatives to support her. Thank you.
9. The President:   Thank you very much, Your Excellency. And now it is a great honour for me to welcome the Minister of  Education and Culture of Uruguay. Your Excellency Mr Ricardo Ehrlich, the floor is yours.
(10.1) Mr Ehrlich (Uruguay) (translation from the Spanish):    Mr President of the General Conference, Excellencies, we are living in times of civilizational change,  with accelerating migrations of peoples and communities, meetings of cultures and increasing numbers of new  places to explore. The rapid advances in knowledge are fuelling promises for the future in all spheres. At the  same time, imbalances and destabilizing factors are persisting in the world order: in different parts of the world,  for different reasons, and once again it is the new generations that must bear the impact of these processes,  marking their life stories. The mechanisms that generate exclusion recur again and again, raising barriers in our  societies. As is the generation of leaves, so is that of humanity, as evoked in the Iliad. However, the loss of  generations affects the whole social fabric, its continuity and its strength, and long years of hard and sustained  effort are required to recover society’s capacities. Thus, young people are the mirror of a society and its history.  For Uruguay, it is time for the new generations, time for education, culture and knowledge. There is a need for  society to convene with education, for society to enter into a new contract with education. The major challenges  of the time must be met by ensuring educational continuity, by ensuring that all our young people can finish  secondary education, by mainstreaming opportunities for access to higher education and guaranteeing access  to lifelong learning opportunities. We believe that our future depends on our ability to become a country of  education, culture and knowledge.
(10.2) We are making progress, but we still have far to go. We must emphasize that the progress made by the  “One Laptop per Child” initiative is significant. The programme was completed a few years ago at the primary  school level and is progressing at the secondary school level. It has not only provided a tool, but has involved  changing educational paradigms and, above all, has made an impact as a sign of building equity. The objectives  that we are currently proposing can only be achieved by building an open country: open to its people, to our  region and to the world; building contexts of equity and equality in rights as pillars of a sustainable social fabric.  The challenge today is to build a society with quality. This concept implies social cohesion – Latin America  continues to be the continent with the greatest inequalities – it involves democratic access to quality of life,  building contexts of coexistence and fundamentally strengthening points of reference of identity and belonging,  on mutually supportive foundations.
(10.3) In this sense, our paths converge fully with UNESCO’s mission and vocation: fighting inequality in  access to knowledge and achieving the highest quality in the education of new generations; strengthening the  reference points of belonging to a community and a society. Hence the importance of tangible and intangible  heritage, the legacy that each generation should be given in order to be able to build ties of belonging to a  community and a place in the world; culture as a meeting point for a society in its diversity and supporting the  sense of belonging; the development of endogenous abilities to create knowledge as the key to growth and  development with freedom and sovereignty; and lastly, the ongoing development of human rights. As one of the  eight countries that has launched the United Nations programme “Delivering as One” and home to the Regional  Bureau for Science in Latin America and the Caribbean, representing UNESCO at MERCOSUR and before the  governments of Argentina and Paraguay, Uruguay considers that the field network reform should consolidate  UNESCO’s presence in the field through a growing process of effective decentralization. In that sense, the
155  UNESCO Office in Montevideo already operates as a multisectoral office. We believe that in the twenty-first  century, UNESCO is called upon to assume increasing key responsibilities as a major international forum. This  requires obtaining the confluence of our nations and achieving higher levels of visibility and presence in our  societies. Lastly, we would like to express our support for the agenda presented by the Director-General, the  firm commitment to multilateralism and the proposed budget increase for the period. Uruguay takes this  opportunity to renew its commitment to UNESCO. Thank you very much.
(12.1) Mr Tamim (Iraq) (translation from the Arabic):   In the name of God, the Merciful, the Clement. Esteemed Madam President of the General Conference, esteemed  Madam Chair of the Executive Board, esteemed Madam Director-General of UNESCO, Your Excellencies heads and  members of delegations, peace and the mercy and blessings of God be upon you. From the land and cradle of civilizations  and from the land of the first law revealed unto humankind, bringing freedom and humanity, and from the land where the first  written symbols were inscribed and the first knowledge and sciences were pursued, I come to you bearing sincerest greetings  from the people of determination and giving, from a people which has suffered deprivation and pain, but which has risen up  and shaken off the shackles of oppression and turned towards the bright horizons of a better future, with a government which  appreciates and commends the work of the international community and which values highly the noble efforts exerted by your  esteemed Organization, UNESCO. It also appreciates the efforts of the generous breasts and supportive hands that have  stood by Iraq in its hour of need and the trials afflicting its institutions. I bear greetings to all those who have helped and  supported Iraqis as they rebuild their homeland and pursue their course towards civilization and progress.
(12.2) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, as you know, Iraq has been, and continues to be, a lighthouse of culture  and creativity, from which has shone the sun of civilization, spreading its rays over the entire inhabited world. Baghdad has  been, over the ages, the lodestar and gathering-place of scientists, writers and pursuers of knowledge from all over the world,  and the intellectual, scientific, and cultural fruit of their minds has blessed and enriched human civilization with rare  achievements which have contributed to the building of world civilization and enlightened life itself. At a time when we are  proudly assessing the honourable educational history of our country, we are proceeding with determination and with firm steps  on the path of the constructive and radical change of our educational and cultural institutions, seeking to reap maximum  benefit from modern educational techniques for curricula and expertise. We strive to provide a sound civilizational environment  for our society, with shining horizons for a promising tomorrow for our country so that we may contribute to the development of  the civilizational progress of humanity. Iraq is now placing itself on the threshold of a new phase in construction and  modernization by striving to build human beings, by renewing scientific and intellectual content and developing individuals’  capacities so that they may become effective and positive elements in society, since human beings are the highest value and  the loftiest goal. This delicate task requires a strong and continuous effort with the support and assistance of your esteemed  Organization in order to achieve the desired objectives and to fill the gap that has affected our country as a result of our being  cut off from the rest of the world over quite a lengthy period, so that we may pursue the comprehensive development under  way in the country. What we are striving for, ladies and gentlemen, is education in which humanitarian foundations are  manifest and which is based on the principle of love and peaceful co-existence and the construction of a virtuous and
156  integrated humanitarian society; it is neither just nor right that some should live in the shadow of backwardness and ignorance  while others are blessed with the wellbeing and happiness that civilization and progress have conferred upon them. We  therefore urge that an educational policy be pursued which provides for integration, mutual responsibility, solidarity and true  fraternity, and hence living in peace and security. Education is a project which entails constructing human beings, rehabilitating  infrastructures, inculcating human values in our sons and daughters, and understanding the leaders of tomorrow, and it is on  them that falls the responsibility for the process of construction. The best of them shall conquer the forces of evil and  aggression and achieve peace and harmony; that may be brought about only when the educational leaders have adopted a  methodology which leads to friendship, harmony and cooperation. What we want from education is to sow hope in people’s  souls so that they may be transformed into construction materials, good intentions, objectives, the scientific method, and  serious will in your Organization and with it all the good-hearted seekers of wellbeing for all and for truth and justice, for these  are the chief elements for the achievement of this humanitarian goal.
(12.3) In conclusion, allow me to convey to you flowers of love and appreciation and breezes of pride which I bear to you  from Mesopotamia, adorned with expressions of thanks and gratitude for the support you provide to us in our hour of need. I  wish to assure you that Iraq and its people are well, carrying on the work of reconstruction and rehabilitation full of faith in God  and the motherland. May you remain a beacon guiding noble-minded individuals, a source of love and élan towards progress  and advancement for humankind. And to all those who extend the hand of assistance, as a solid mainstay, in word and in  deed, best greetings and gratitude. Finally, we hope for your support in admitting Palestine to your esteemed Organization as  a Member State, in accordance with the civilizational and cultural aspirations of all the peoples of the Earth. Peace and the  mercy and blessings of God be upon you.
13. The President:    Thank you very much, Your Excellency. And now it is a great pleasure for me to welcome the Minister of  Education of Kenya, His Excellency Mr Samson Kegeo Ongeri. The floor is yours, Sir.
14.1 Mr Ongeri (Kenya):   Madam President of the General Conference, Madam Chair of the Executive Board, Your Excellencies, ladies  and gentlemen. Madam President, allow me to congratulate you most sincerely on your election as President of the 36th  session of the UNESCO General Conference. We are confident that your able leadership will effectively discharge the  onerous business of the 36th session of the General Conference. Kenya is committed to the realization of peace,  security and sustainable development through UNESCO’s programmes. Therefore, in this regard, Kenya recently  adopted a new Constitution, which provides for the promotion of essential values of human rights, equality, freedom and  democracy. These values are expected to be embedded in the social fabric of every aspect of national affairs. We shall  continuously be guided by UNESCO’s principals and expectations in the realization of the foregoing.
14.2 Madam President, despite challenges affecting the Education Sector, much progress has been made, with  particular focus on the realization of education for all (EFA). We have recorded enrolment growth at all levels since the  Dakar Forum in 2000. Gross enrolment rates in early childhood care increased from 41.4% in 2000 to 60.9% in 2010.  Enrolment for free primary education rose from 5.9 million to 9.4 million in the same years, and the introduction of free  day secondary education (FDSE) in 2008 increased total enrolment from 1.3 million to 1.8 million in 2011. The transition  rate from primary to secondary schools has also improved tremendously, and currently stands at about 72.5%.  Enrolment in adult education centres also increased significantly from 93,903 in 2000 to 172,156 in 2010, an increase of
14.3 Madam President, as the Minister in charge of Education, Chair of the Conference of African Ministers of  Education (COMEDAF) and Co-Chair of the Association for the Development of Education in Africa (ADEA), I am  committed to steering the achievement of international obligations in education in Africa and the African Union plan of  action on education. Since assuming chairship, we have achieved the following milestones: (1) establishing the Pan- African University; (2) convening several regional fora to review progress in education within the African continent; (3)  coordinating the conduct of research in education through sponsorship from ADEA and UNESCO, and (4) spearheading  the development and hosting the ADEA Inter-Country Quality Node on Peace Education under my chairship. Madam  President, at the higher-education level, we have raised women’s participation to 33%. However, we are working towards  increasing their participation in engineering and science programmes at both university and technical and vocational  education and training (TVET) levels. The recent rapid growth in the number of universities requires corresponding  capacity building and increased investment in infrastructure and equipment.
14.4 Madam President, we are deeply concerned with climate change, particularly as rising temperatures are leading  to increased droughts, desertification and food insecurity in Kenya and the Horn of Africa. In this regard, Kenya has  developed and implemented policies for efficient water resource planning and management and put in place vigorous  programmes for afforestation and reclamation of threatened water towers. In the same spirit, the Government of Kenya,  in collaboration with UNESCO, is committed to the establishment of a category 2 regional centre on groundwater  resources education, training and research for East Africa in Nairobi. Madam President, Kenya supports the  establishment of the Intergovernmental Oceanographic Commission (IOC) Sub-Commission for Africa and the Adjacent  Island States. I wish to express our sincere gratitude to UNESCO for proposing that Kenya host the Sub-Commission.  Madam President, in Kenya we have recognized that increased inclusion of youth and women in the country’s  development agenda will enhance social and economic progress. The creation of a Ministry of Youth and Youth  Enterprises will be able to meet these expectations. We are grateful to UNESCO for having held the fifth session of the  Intergovernmental Committee for the Safeguarding of the Intangible Cultural Heritage in Nairobi in November 2010 in the  area of culture. Let me also say that in information and communication technologies (ICT) we have made tremendous  progress with home-grown innovations and we are using these innovations even in money transfers. Finally, we are  confident that in our Government’s renewed resolve and these partnerships, we shall continue to make great strides in  the social transformation of our citizens. I thank you.
15. The President:    Thank you very much, Your Excellency, Minister of Education of Kenya. And now it is my pleasure to welcome  the Minister of Education of Trinidad and Tobago. Your Excellency Mr Tim Gopeesingh, the floor is yours, Sir.
16.1 Mr Gopeesingh (Trinidad and Tobago):   Madam President of the General Conference, Madam Chair of the Executive Board, Madam Director-General,  Honourable Ministers and heads of delegations, delegates, other invitees, ladies and gentlemen. Trinidad and Tobago  applauds the current Director-General, Ms Irina Bokova, for her call for a new humanism, a development paradigm that is  people-centred. We also thank the outgoing President of the General Conference, Ambassador Davidson Hepburn of the  Bahamas, for his work and contribution and his share in the success of the 35th session of the General Conference. I  look forward to continued positioning and representation by the Caribbean region at the highest levels of the UNESCO  decision-making machinery and supporting mechanisms.
16.2 We welcome the new President, Ms Katalin Bogyay, and her declaration of the dawn of a new poetry of  diplomacy. Madam President, while UNESCO has shown an extraordinary ability to adapt to and meet the challenges of  a changing environment, we believe that much more is needed to facilitate and accommodate the special and particular  realities of the Caribbean. At a time when there is particular focus on the challenges facing small island States, we note  an ongoing struggle for a region in the configuration of the United Nations system and its division by geography that  places us at particular disadvantages. Containment within the Latin America and the Caribbean region skews many of  our realities. How we are represented in UNESCO-generated data skews our different historical, cultural and economic  realities to the larger continental norms that are not necessarily our own. This continues to challenge our researchers  and decision- and policy-makers looking for realistic statistical support to more closely inform decision-making. We also  believe UNESCO’s system may yet recognize and accommodate in substantial and significantly meaningful ways our  peculiar historical, ancestral relations with our diasporas, which include English-, French-, Spanish-, Dutch- and  Portuguese-speaking Europe indeed, but also our ancestral links with Africa, India and China, as well as with our  indigenous peoples.
16.3 Madam President, although just over 5,000 square kilometres in size, we in Trinidad and Tobago are already in  many ways a microcosm of the interculturality and diversity which UNESCO is aiming for universally. Because of this we  believe our experiences of social cohesion and managing diversity gleaned from a 500-year-old globalization of  integrating and accommodating peoples of many of the major ethnicities and cultures of the world, can substantially  inform some of your directions at a time when so many of our Member States battle with ethnic strife and tensions being  generated in this new period of accelerated globalization.
16.4 Madam President, we are also making rapid strides in our quest to achieve your stated goal of universal early  childhood care and education. We already have fulfilled a mandate of universal primary and secondary education. In  tertiary education we have achieved a 45% fulfilment, moving quickly to 60%. We have introduced a programme to  provide every child entering secondary school with a fully loaded laptop computer to catapult entry into a technologically  driven world. We are working towards strengthening and reforming our curriculum, towards holistic development of each  child, with programmes in sports, physical education, science, the creative and visual arts, moral and civic education,  citizenry and character development.
16.5 We are already reaping the benefits of success of our efforts at gender parity and equity education for women  and girls, who are now in large numbers high achievers at all levels of our education system. As you know, Madam  President, this has been well-signified in the ascension to office in Trinidad and Tobago of our first woman Prime Minister  in the Honourable Kamla Persad-Bissessar, and around this period in Australia, she is currently chairing the  Commonwealth of Nations’ 57 States. We are now moving towards similar parity in all other spheres of national life, with  education and culture as core areas of social investment, and having introduced gender mainstreaming in our national  budget processes this year.
16.6 In keeping with UNESCO’s vision to build a free, open and just society that creates opportunities for all,  regardless of individual circumstance, Trinidad and Tobago’s history of diversity in a context of peace has formed a  foundation for social and economic development, and remained part of the intellectual capital that we can offer to you  during this time of global and economic turmoil.
16.7 Madam President, here is an invitation. We open our doors to you and all Member States as we begin a year of  celebration to mark our Golden Jubilee year of independence and 50 years of UNESCO, which will continue into our joint  celebrations with UNESCO, in 2015, of the tenth anniversary of the Convention for the Safeguarding of the Intangible  Cultural Heritage and just-concluded first decade of the Convention on the Protection and Promotion of the Diversity of  Cultural Expressions to which Trinidad and Tobago has just become a signatory.
16.8 Trinidad and Tobago applauds UNESCO’s efforts to promote the use of media and information and  communication technologies as a multiplier for action by the entire Organization. For all of us, Madam President, and  certainly for us in the Caribbean, UNESCO is an essential partner for empowerment of our communities and individuals.  Thank you very much.
17. The President:    Thank you very much, Your Excellency, for your statement. And now it is a great honour for me to welcome the  Minister of Culture and Monument Protection of Georgia, His Excellency Mr Nikoloz Rurua. Sir, the floor is yours.
18.1 Mr Rurua (Georgia):   Madam President of the General Conference, Madam Director-General, distinguished delegates to UNESCO. It  is both a privilege and an honour to address the 36th session of the General Conference of the Organization which, for
158  more than six decades, has retained its enduring significance in addressing global challenges. Over the past 65 years  UNESCO has played a motivating role in the advancement of the sense of moral solidarity of mankind, aiming to achieve  lasting peace and freedom throughout the world. Sadly, in the twenty-first century, in spite of all the efforts of the global  community, those goals are yet to be attained. Still, there are nations which must rise up to demand the realization of  their basic human rights. In 2011 we have all witnessed the dramatic and extraordinary changes taking place in the  Middle East and North Africa. We have all seen the devoted men and women acting with resolve to ensure a free and  dignified life for themselves and their children. Together with the free world we welcome the spectacular democratic  developments that are currently taking place throughout that region, and would gladly share our successful experience of  modernization and democratic transformation with those nations.
18.2 Without exaggeration, an Arab Spring can be considered the natural continuation of the coloured revolutions that  occurred in the post-Soviet area, the standard-bearer of which Georgia remains until now. It was only seven years ago  that, after the Rose revolution, the new Georgian Government launched quick, radical and comprehensive reforms aimed  at the “de-Sovietization” and modernization of the Georgian State and society. According to the World Bank, “the process  since the start of the reforms in Georgia can be qualified as unique in terms of speed of reforms, degree of innovation,  and extent of the institutional restructuring.” The array of successful reforms has been conducted in all walks of life,  including education and science systems as well as in the cultural field.
18.3 We acknowledge the paramount role of culture for development, social cohesion and peace and eagerly express  our support for the priorities of the UNESCO culture programme. World heritage and intangible heritage are the most  notable and visible domains of UNESCO activities. On the eve of the fortieth anniversary of the World Heritage  Convention, I would like to take the opportunity to express my deep gratitude to the World Heritage Centre for its  continued efforts at preserving world cultural inheritance for future generations. We are fully committed to the task of  safeguarding Georgia’s rich and diverse cultural heritage as proved by our efforts with regards to the improvement of the  conservation status of the List of World Heritage in Danger. We will further accelerate our efforts to give implementation  of the Convention the highest priority at the policy-making and administrative levels. Let me emphasize that Georgia  attaches great significance to the issue of managing disaster risks at world heritage sites. Moreover, as a country with  rapidly growing touristic potential, we strongly support the culture programme activities targeted at cultural and natural  heritage conservation in the context of profound, sustainable tourism – promotion of sustainable tourism.
18.4 We note with satisfaction the strengthening of UNESCO`s global leadership in the field of education for all, and  envisage attaining quality education for all as a central factor for promoting sustainable livelihoods, economic prosperity  and human development.
18.5 Georgia fully supports the UNESCO Engineering Initiative. In this regard, let me inform you that on the initiative  of the President of Georgia, engineering, IT and applied sciences are named as the priority areas of our targeted efforts.  To further that goal, my Government has begun the establishment of a new world-class technological university in the  Black Sea resort city, Batumi, to contribute to solving rapidly changing technology-oriented global problems facing the  society of my country as well as that of neighbouring States.
18.6 Distinguished delegates, sadly, in the twenty-first century, in spite of all the efforts of the global community,  lasting and stable peace is also a goal which still needs to be achieved. Even on the European continent there are areas  where violence and aggression prevail over the concept of peace and freedom; there are places where children are  robbed of the most basic and fundamental rights, such as the right to receive education in their mother tongue, where  cultural heritage is being relentlessly destroyed in an attempt to justify forced demographic changes, and ethnic  cleansing. To many of you in this respected audience this may sound surprising. However, this is the case of my country.  As a result of the August 2008 Russian military assault on Georgia, two parts of my homeland remain occupied by this  foreign power. In addition to brutally enforced de facto cultural and linguistic apartheid in these occupied territories, the  Georgian Government is also deprived of the possibility of protecting invaluable cultural heritage sites located in  Abkhazia, Georgia and the Tskhinvali Region, South Ossetia, Georgia. In most cases these masterpieces of Georgian  architecture are being deliberately destroyed and damaged with the aim of eradicating the signs of Georgian historic and  cultural presence in the occupied territories. Last year the eleventh-century Church of Ilori Saint George, located in  Abkhazia, Georgia, completely lost its authenticity after so called “rehabilitation” works, which resulted in the pre- conceived obliteration of all the characteristic features of the traditional Georgian architecture, and the reshaping of it  after the Russian architectural model. As a State Party of the 1972 Hague Convention and its Second Protocol to which  my country acceded last year, we once again reiterate our appeal to UNESCO to employ all the instruments at its  disposal to halt the policy of deliberate cultural destruction of Georgian cultural and historical heritage in occupied  territories.
18.7 In conclusion, I hope that we, as responsible global citizens inspired by the “new humanism” – this phrase so  timely coined by Director-General Irina Bokova – will work hand in hand to promote the moral and intellectual harmony of  mankind for achieving lasting peace and freedom for every human being with whom we share this Earth of ours. Thank  you so much.  Ms da Rocha (Brazil) takes the Chair.
19. The President:    Thank you very much, Your Excellency, and I am now happy to welcome the Minister of Education of Saint Kitts  and Nevis. Your Excellency Mr Patrice Nisbett, the floor is yours.
20.1 Mr Nisbett (Saint Kitts and Nevis):   Madam President of the General Conference, Honourable Ministers, Madam Director-General, Distinguished  Ambassadors, ladies and gentlemen, the Federation of Saint Kitts and Nevis is honoured to be attending the 36th  session of the General Conference of UNESCO. It comes at a pivotal time when UNESCO seeks to galvanize us all in a  search for sustainable levels of economic, social and cultural development. Developed and developing-world States alike  are struggling with the many new challenges of an international nature, with huge implications for peace and sustainable  development. We support the Director-General in her task to identify and focus on the appropriate activities and secure  resources to ensure that the Organization is optimally deploying its distinct core competencies and expertise. This would  not be a threat, but a compelling opportunity to bring about further meaningful reform and visionary thinking within  UNESCO – including in the regional cluster offices – to implement timely and relevant work programmes in vulnerable  small island developing States (SIDS) like ours. My Government continues to enjoy a fruitful, productive and long  standing relationship with UNESCO, which has enabled us to raise its profile, and carry out the Organization’s mandate  on the ground via its National Commission as well as other government ministries and NGOs.
20.2 Madam President, we do not need reminding that small States face serious obstacles in pursuing social and  economic ambitions. This is not limited to balancing finances; equally, we face challenges associated with diminished  levels of morality, humanism and dignity, which have declined to unprecedented and sometimes dangerous levels  among our young people. Consequently, we are tackling increasing crime and violence in society today.
20.3 My Government fully supports UNESCO’s action to promote quality education for all. We continue to relentlessly  explore alternative means for our young people by delivering alternative methods of education. As a result, my  Government has prioritized a policy focus in the field of technical and vocational education and training (TVET). I believe  UNESCO can further significantly complement our efforts by providing upstream policy advice and related capacity  institutional development assistance.
20.4 Recently, my Government ratified the International Convention against Doping in Sport, partly because we are  convinced that UNESCO’s input at the development level in sports, for our youth or our young people, has a role to play.  The achievements of local, but world-renowned athletes, such as Usain Bolt of Jamaica and Kim Collins of Saint Kitts  and Nevis, are an inspiration to the youth in our islands and an example of what small States can do to empower young  people to pursue alternative and less socially damaging activities.
20.5 My Government notes with pleasure that SIDS remains the priority group within its new programme and budget  cycle and the Mauritius Strategy for Further Implementation of the Programme of Action for the Sustainable Development  of Small Island Developing States, especially taking into consideration the ever-present danger of climate change.  Madam President, our key challenge, however, remains finding ways to adapt and mitigate climate change, so  destructive for crops, habitation and lives in our small islands. Living conditions and tourism rely on our natural beauty  and our ecological system is one of our most precious assets. But I am encouraged by the outcome of a UNESCO  ministerial-level climate change conference held in Saint Kitts in March of this year. The conference recognized the three  key priorities and called upon UNESCO’s expertise and competencies in helping us to: improve our preparedness ahead  of imminent natural disasters through early-warning systems; identify and strengthen scientific communities across the  Caribbean region; and support our efforts in promoting education for sustainable development at all levels, including  informal education. Madam President, in partnership with UNESCO and the Caribbean States, we can achieve  substantial improvements for citizens carving out a living in the Caribbean islands.
21. The President:   Thank you Minister. I would like to call His Excellency Mr Serguei Ignatov, Minister of Education, Sciences and  Youth of Bulgaria. Minister, you have the floor.
22.1 Mr Ignatov (Bulgaria):   Madam President of the General Conference, Madam Chair of the Executive Board, Madam Director-General,  Excellencies, ladies and gentlemen. May I take this opportunity, Madam President of the General Conference, to  congratulate you on your election. My delegation associates itself with the statement to be made on behalf of the  European Union. Two years after our Director-General took office we witness remarkable efforts and tangible results in  achieving the goal of a reformed UNESCO, more focused on its core activities and values. The revised budget proposal  duly reflects that, and Bulgaria supports the zero nominal growth option.
22.2 My delegation wishes to congratulate the Director-General for her strong commitment to the increased visibility  of UNESCO and for her efforts towards more coordinated interaction with other United Nations agencies, which is crucial  in obtaining the required impact of our actions. We also commend her for the courageous decisions she has made in  difficult moments when the credibility, image and values of UNESCO were at stake. Bulgaria renders its unreserved  support for all her endeavours.
22.3 We all recognize that the world is facing challenging economic times and we realize that the way forward to  stability, which relates to more sustainability, to prosperity as well as to life in dignity, is through investment in education,  scientific research and more socially beneficial innovations. Here I would like to inform the membership of UNESCO that  my Government has decided, in a moment of reduced budgetary spending, to increase the budgets for education and  culture for 2012. While that investment is essential for strengthening the global economy in order to remain true to the  vision and values that lie at the heart of UNESCO, we cannot but recognize and highlight the pivotal role of science and  technologies in the pursuit of a more equitable, sustainable and humane society in the twenty-first century.
22.4 We are of the opinion that sustainable development requires holistic approaches that make the most of  synergies between cross-disciplinary and policy domains, relying on proper education for a change. Education is a key
160  instrument and a powerful tool for bringing about changes in values and attitudes, skills, behaviours and lifestyles. These  can only be achieved by encouraging critical, creative and innovative thinking in the educational process from an early  age. Hence the need to focus on promoting science education at all stages and levels in increasingly knowledge-based  societies in order to strengthen the capacity in young people to contribute to contemporary society. It will also help to  raise youth’s understanding of global challenges such as climate change, the limits to energy resources, the need to  protect the cultural heritage and biodiversity. Fostering education in tolerance and respect for different cultural values  and manifestations is a prerequisite to building a culture of peace. In all our activities in the field of education we need to  further sharpen the focus on the priorities Africa and gender equality.
22.5 Cultural innovations and products provide for economic growth and support social cohesion, alleviating social  disparities. Concentrating investments in the field of culture will enhance sustainable development. My delegation warmly  welcomes the initiative of the Director-General for South-East Europe to use culture as a bridge to and accelerator of  development.
22.6 Excellencies, my delegation subscribes to the appeal of the Director-General to act in unity. Let us sustain our  common vision for the future of our Organization and strengthen our mutual cooperation. The rapidly changing world  needs UNESCO more than ever before. Thank you for your attention.
23. The President:   Thank you Minister. I would now like to invite His Excellency Mr Raymond Sapoen, Minister of Education and  Community Development of Suriname. You have the floor, Minister.
24.1 Mr Sapoen (Suriname):   Madam President of the General Conference, Madam Chair of the Executive Board, Madam Director-General of  UNESCO, distinguished delegates, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the Government and the people of Suriname, and  on my own behalf, I would like to add my voice to those who have congratulated you on your election as President of the  General Conference. Given your track record, we cannot but express our confidence in your leadership of this governing  body of the Organization for the period ahead. We would like to thank the outgoing President Mr Hepburn, whose tenure  filled the Caribbean peoples with a sense of pride – his election was unprecedented in the Caribbean subregion. We  would also like to thank the Director-General for her management of UNESCO during the past two years. We wish her  much wisdom and good judgement for the years ahead. I would like to welcome the new Associate Members, Curaçao  and Sint Maarten, for their membership and for enriching the Dutch-speaking Caribbean. We are looking forward to  working closely with them. We thank the Director-General and her staff for the Draft Programme and Budget which  continuously testifies to the unfailing effort of the Organization to achieve the ideals it envisaged at its inception 65 years  ago. Unfortunately, we are faced time and time again with global threats that jeopardize the realization of these ideals.  International security and the culture of peace continue to be pivotal issues that require innovative approaches from us,  the international community.
24.2  Madam President, as we announced at a previous session of the General Conference with regard to the  education for all (EFA) goals for the 2015 deadline and beyond, we have launched a major educational reform project  which involves a basic education cycle, integrating kindergarten and primary education. The project aims, among other  things, at improved quality and increased efficiency of the basic education system by updating the education content  processes and supporting institutional reforms, including teacher training, to strengthen the management and  administrative capacities both within the ministry and at school levels. This innovation is widely expected to increase the  human capital of our country. At the same time, we have continued to implement activities within the context of the  Millennium Development Goals (MDGs), notably regarding early childhood development and gender equity. Although  Suriname has an increased education enrolment, we are yet dealing, as are many developing countries, with a challenge  to improve education quality and relevance. Madam President, we are pleased to inform you that with a view to  regulating our standards of higher education, we have established an accreditation council, following the Law on the  National Agency for Accreditation. In cooperating with the Caribbean Community (CARICOM), educational standards  and quality have now been set for the recognition of higher education institutions. An educated population is the greatest  wealth of a nation. It is necessary that education responds to the increased diversity of pupils and rapid technological  developments. Our society demands more from individuals and expects a productive contribution to society from all the  people. The quality of the individual teacher and the school team is almost everything. It is therefore worth investing in  our staff in a planned and fundamental way. Quality is preservation of work; professional development should be seen as  a continuum, as a part of lifelong learning. The Institute for Training and Professional Development will commence its  activities in November 2011. In concrete terms, we will start with in-service training for teachers in Paramaribo and step  by step extend the activities to the districts. The status and readiness of ICT in education varies greatly throughout the  world and specifically the Caribbean region. Policy directions and implementation strategies have to be in place in  Suriname so as to be developed to ensure the impact of ICT in improving teaching and learning goals. We all  acknowledge the use of ICT to enhance access to and equality of education through all levels. We therefore welcome all  support from the international community to assist in the strengthening of ICT in education in Suriname.
24.3 Madam President, given that sport, youth and culture are among Suriname’s portfolio within CARICOM, I am  pleased to inform you about the following. A regional sports academy (RSA) will be established in Suriname. The  regional sports academy will play a crucial role, for example, in the development of a healthy lifestyle of citizens, both at  national and regional levels. The establishment of a regional sports academy in Suriname will also be beneficial and  strategic for providing alternatives for young people and contributing to a healthy and balanced population. Suriname will  be the host country for important regional meetings, namely the regular meeting of ministers of education of the  Organization of American States (OAS) addressing teachers’ capacities to respond to the needs of twenty-first century
161  students, a high-level meeting regarding youth, and for the first time in the Caribbean, Virtual Eduka. These meetings will  take place in our capital Paramaribo from 27 February to 2 March 2012.
24.4 In conclusion, Madam President, we would like to express our hope that UNESCO will continue to make its  presence felt in the face of the current global challenges and that the international community will be able to stem the tide  of global insecurity and human rights violations. I thank you very much.
25. The President:   Thank you. Now I have the great pleasure to call on His Excellency Mr Lionel Jansen, Minister of Education,  Science and Culture and Export of Curaçao. It is for us a real pleasure to admit the Minister in this room for the first time.  Welcome, Minister, to the UNESCO family.
26.1 Mr Jansen (Curaçao):   Madam President of the General Conference, Madam Chair of the Executive Board, Madam Director-General,  distinguished delegates, ladies and gentlemen, the Government of Curaçao congratulates you, Madam President, on  being elected to preside over the 36th session of the General Conference of UNESCO and I wish you sustained success  in the following proceedings. This UNESCO General Conference is of historical value for our country. It is a great  achievement and an honour to become an Associate Member during this Conference. In the near future we will stand  here as a full-fledged member. One day our nation will choose to be independent, but now we are very glad with this  acknowledgement as an Associate Member. Every country deserves to be represented at the highest level, thereby  actively contributing to global peace, as UNESCO stands for peace and righteousness. Madam President, money, power  or historical scale should never ever hinder or stand in the way of global peace. With great pride, we will contribute to  prosperity. We are a small island, but we have achieved and we will continue to achieve great things globally. Please  witness our history. Our country is a melting pot consisting of people who take pride in their cultural background and  believe one of the main tools to achieve peace and combat division is training people in their own country or region as  much as possible. By doing this, we can contribute to the completion and further advancement of our country and others.  Here, all countries need to stand together.
26.2 Madam President, we regret the fact that some countries will refuse to contribute or stop their contribution to the  education for all programmes. Their support for training, education and economic development in developing countries is  very important. We reluctantly see the emigration of youngsters to other countries in these societies. At the global level,  we are witnessing another phenomenon which has unprecedented consequences, which is the digital divide. We urge  UNESCO to pay attention to this emerging trend. Because of poor development opportunities, countries on the rise also  experience the negative consequences of brain drain. With this in mind, we call upon you to reconsider your decisions to  stop or reduce your support.
26.3 Madam President, we are grateful for the assistance and support offered by UNESCO through training courses,  information exchange and networking. Through dedication, perseverance and commitment we will continue to develop,  free our people and increase our feelings of self-worth and pride. Madam President, nos ta orguyoso di ta forma parti di e  gran famia di UNESCO i KORSOU lo hasi bon uso di e oportunidatnan ku UNESCO ta ofresé. We will succeed, because  we believe in ourselves and in the support of UNESCO. Biba Korsou, biba UNESCO. Masha danki, dank u, thank you,  muchas gracias, Merci beaucoup.
27. The President:    Muito obrigada. I now give the floor to His Excellency Mr Nuro Crato, Minister of Education, Higher Education  and Science of Portugal.
28.1 M. Crato (Portugal) (discours prononcé en portugais ; texte français fourni par la délégation) :   Madame la Présidente de la Conférence générale, Madame la Directrice générale, chers collègues, Mesdames  et Messieurs les Ambassadeurs, le Portugal souscrit pleinement à la déclaration qui sera prononcée par la Pologne au  nom de l’Union européenne. Permettez-moi, avant tout, de féliciter la Directrice générale de l’UNESCO pour les  initiatives de réforme des structures et des procédures de l’Organisation qu’elle a entreprises. Le Portugal est  entièrement disposé à aider l’UNESCO à accompagner les changements politiques, sociaux, environnementaux,  culturels et économiques du monde. Ces derniers mois, nous avons assisté à de profonds bouleversements politiques et  sociaux dans le monde arabe. En raison de leur dimension civilisationnelle, ces bouleversements constituent des  moments uniques ou rarement égalés par le passé. Les mesures prises par l’UNESCO dès le début de ce qu’il a été  convenu d’appeler « le Printemps arabe » illustrent bien l’engagement de l’Organisation, que nous avons  particulièrement apprécié.
28.2 Madame la Présidente de la Conférence générale, mon Gouvernement observe avec attention les réformes qui  ont été lancées par la Directrice générale au sein du Secteur de l’éducation. Le programme du Gouvernement portugais  établit un certain nombre de priorités fondamentales en matière d’éducation, notamment : l’autonomie des écoles, qui  passe par un engagement accru des communautés dans les projets éducatifs et l’octroi d’une plus grande autonomie et  davantage de responsabilités aux écoles ; une politique rigoureuse d’évaluation des élèves, des enseignants, des écoles  et des programmes d’enseignement ; la promotion de la véritable réussite scolaire, et non pas de la réussite uniquement  sur le plan statistique, ainsi que la lutte contre l’abandon scolaire ; le perfectionnement des enseignants du futur, afin  qu’ils soient mieux préparés dans leurs matières respectives ; la création d’un système d’enseignement secondaire qui  articule la formation scientifico-humaniste traditionnelle avec la formation des écoles professionnelles, en lien avec le  monde de l’entreprise. La réforme du système éducatif implique aussi une restructuration des programmes, à travers la  réduction du nombre et de la diversité des disciplines dans la scolarité obligatoire, et par le renforcement de  l’enseignement fondamental : la langue portugaise et les mathématiques. Toujours dans le domaine de l’éducation, le  Portugal soutient de longue date la priorité accordée au continent africain, et maintient une étroite coopération avec les
162  pays de langue officielle portugaise, notamment avec l’établissement d’écoles portugaises au Mozambique et en Angola.  Je note avec satisfaction que la proposition faite par la Directrice générale pour le budget 2012-2013 renforce la dotation  attribuée à la priorité Afrique. Nous nous réjouissons aussi de la coopération avec le Timor-Leste, pays avec lequel nous  venons d’établir un protocole dans le domaine de l’éducation, lequel prévoit l’envoi d’enseignants portugais pour  travailler dans des écoles de référence dans le pays, et accompagner les stages des futurs enseignants timorais.
28.3 Madame la Présidente de la Conférence générale, la science, la technologie et l’innovation sont des priorités  pour mon Gouvernement. L’année 2012 a été proclamée par les Nations Unies « Année internationale de l’énergie  durable pour tous ». Nous sommes certains qu’elle permettra à l’UNESCO de sensibiliser les États membres et la  société civile. Le Portugal investit avec conviction dans l’étude des énergies renouvelables. Mon pays se réjouit de la  récente approbation, à Dresde, de deux nouvelles réserves de biosphère portugaises (Santana Madeira et Berlengas),  ainsi que du partenariat de l’UNESCO avec le réseau mondial des géoparcs. Par sa participation au Conseil exécutif de  la Commission océanographique intergouvernementale, le Portugal continuera de contribuer à asseoir le rôle de cette  dernière, dont il salue la contribution à la préparation de la Conférence Rio + 20. Nous sommes convaincus que la  Conférence générale approuvera à sa présente session la création, à Lisbonne, d’un centre de catégorie 2, projet  d’excellence appuyé par tous les pays de langue portugaise. Ce centre aura pour mission d’assurer la formation  avancée en sciences fondamentales dans l’espace de la Communauté des pays de langue portugaise (CPLP).  L’investissement durable dans la recherche scientifique et dans la formation de techniciens et de chercheurs est sans  aucun doute l’un des piliers du développement pour lequel le Portugal déploie le plus d’efforts.
28.4 Madame la Présidente de la Conférence générale, le Portugal a coparrainé le projet de résolution qui insiste sur  le renforcement des moyens financiers alloués à l’application de la Convention sur la protection et la promotion de la  diversité des expressions culturelles, afin de combler les insuffisances qui subsistent encore concernant le Fonds  international pour la diversité culturelle, auquel le Portugal a eu le plaisir de contribuer. La défense du patrimoine  matériel de l’humanité est un objectif à viser. Mon pays espère que le plan d’action qui doit accompagner la  Recommandation concernant le paysage urbain historique sera bientôt prêt afin de protéger de la dégradation un  patrimoine riche et irremplaçable. Le patrimoine immatériel doit voir sa protection garantie. Le Portugal est en train  d’achever l’inventaire du patrimoine culturel immatériel national. Mon pays considère que la conservation et la  préservation du patrimoine culturel subaquatique sont de la plus haute importance et, à cet égard, accorde une valeur  cruciale à la Convention de 2001. Le Portugal dispose d’une vaste expérience dans le domaine de l’archéologie sous- marine en coopération avec d’autres États, et recommande à tous de promouvoir la ratification de la Convention sur la  protection du patrimoine culturel subaquatique, ou l’adhésion à cette Convention.
28.5 Madame la Présidente de la Conférence générale, le dernier sujet que je souhaite aborder dans mon  intervention concerne la satisfaction qui est la mienne de pouvoir m’adresser à vous en portugais. Le portugais est, de  nos jours, parlé par plus de 250 millions de personnes sur Terre, ce qui en fait la huitième langue la plus parlée de la  planète, et la troisième langue européenne la plus parlée au monde. La langue portugaise est chaque jour davantage  employée dans les domaines du commerce et de l’économie par les puissances émergentes, en particulier en Amérique  du Sud et en Afrique subsaharienne. Le Portugal soutiendra le renforcement du rôle de la langue portugaise en tant que  langue de communication internationale auprès des instances internationales, et cela en concertation étroite avec les  autres pays de la CPLP.
28.6 Madame la Présidente de la Conférence générale, je saisis l’occasion qui m’est offerte de vous remercier et de  réitérer l’engagement du Portugal aux côtés de l’UNESCO en faveur de la promotion et du maintien de la paix, objectif  primordial de cette Organisation. Je vous remercie.
29. The President:    Muito obrigada Senhor Ministro. I would like to call Her Excellency Ms Roser Suñé Pascuet, Minister of  Education and Youth of Andorra. Madam, you have the floor.
30.1 Mme Suñé Pascuet (Andorre) :   Madame la Présidente, Madame la Directrice générale, Excellences, Mesdames et Messieurs, permettez-moi  tout d’abord de vous féliciter, Madame la Présidente, pour votre élection à la présidence de la 36e session de la  Conférence générale. Je vous présente tous mes vœux de succès dans l’accomplissement de cette haute mission. Le
13 septembre 2000, l’Andorre a adopté les Objectifs du Millénaire pour le développement. À cet égard, je tiens à saluer  l’engagement de l’UNESCO en faveur de l’alphabétisation dans le cadre du programme « Éducation pour tous » (EPT),  mais les efforts déployés ne sont certainement pas suffisants. Il sera en effet difficile, d’ici à 2015, de rendre universelle  la scolarisation des enfants dans le primaire, ce qui était pourtant l’un des Objectifs du Millénaire pour le développement.  Force est de constater que les populations victimes de conflits violents et les peuples les plus vulnérables aux  catastrophes naturelles sont exclus du circuit du développement. À ce titre, le Rapport mondial de suivi sur l’Éducation  pour tous publié en 2011 témoigne du fait que les conflits armés sont un obstacle majeur à la réalisation de l’EPT. Il est  essentiel de préserver les droits des enfants et de promouvoir l’aide au développement dans les pays touchés par un  conflit. À cet égard, la coopération andorrane définit ses priorités en s’inspirant des huit Objectifs du Millénaire pour le  développement, et en orientant ses ressources vers des secteurs d’activité très concrets. Un de ces secteurs auxquels  l’Andorre porte une attention toute particulière est la protection des personnes vulnérables, plus particulièrement celle  des enfants et des femmes.
30.2 Mesdames et Messieurs, l’Andorre, blottie au cœur des Pyrénées, dispose d’un système éducatif tout aussi  particulier que son histoire. À la fin du XIXe siècle, les enfants de ce petit État peuplé de 5 500 habitants recevaient des  rudiments d’instruction liés à l’éducation religieuse. Ce n’est qu’en 1900 que l’enseignement français laïc a fait son  apparition dans nos vallées, avant d’être rejoint par l’enseignement espagnol en 1930. Ainsi, nos deux coprinces, le
163  Président de la République française et l’évêque de la Seu d’Urgell, ont toujours essayé de maintenir dans notre pays  les influences française et espagnole aussi bien à travers l’éducation que dans d’autres domaines. L’Andorre leur en sait  gré car ils ont permis à un territoire, où la vie était rude à bâtir, d’avoir une excellente instruction et un équilibre entre les  influences de nos deux pays voisins. Ces deux systèmes scolaires perdurent de nos jours. Ce n’est qu’en 1982 que  l’École andorrane est née ; depuis, notre population scolaire est répartie entre trois systèmes éducatifs. La coexistence  de ces trois enseignements – gratuits pour tous – dans un territoire si restreint se passe très bien et nous avons toujours  considéré cette pluralité comme une richesse, les parents pouvant librement choisir l’école de leurs enfants.
30.3 Madame la Présidente, nous sommes un pays de grande immigration (nous avons multiplié par 12 notre  population en tout juste 50 ans) et nos jeunes doivent trouver, à travers l’enseignement, leurs repères : connaître  l’histoire du territoire d’accueil, sans pour autant oublier leurs origines. Et cela se fait essentiellement à travers l’école,  qui doit permettre la difficile fusion dans le pays de groupes ethniques et culturels les plus divers. Cinq écoles de la  Principauté d’Andorre font partie du Réseau du système des écoles associées de l'UNESCO et œuvrent en faveur de la  compréhension internationale, de la paix, du dialogue interculturel, du développement durable et de la qualité de  l'éducation. Il est prévu que des élèves des écoles associées participent, en janvier 2012, à la Rencontre de jeunes  scientifiques au Portugal. En ce qui concerne l’enseignement supérieur, l’Université d’Andorre et l’UNESCO ont signé,  en 2006, un accord créant une Chaire UNESCO intitulée « les technologies de l’information : formation et  développement solidaire ».
30.4 Madame la Présidente, il est important de promouvoir la participation active des jeunes dans notre société, et le  Forum des jeunes de l’UNESCO offre un cadre privilégié à cette fin. Nous saluons l’engagement de l’UNESCO envers  les jeunes et nous nous félicitons de l’organisation de la 7e édition du Forum des jeunes, tenue du 17 au 20 octobre au  Siège de l’UNESCO, à Paris, et à laquelle deux jeunes Andorrans ont participé. L’Andorre accorde une importance toute  particulière à la participation de jeunes de tous les États membres de l’UNESCO au Forum, afin qu’ils puissent échanger  et débattre sur les questions d’actualité. C’est la raison pour laquelle le Gouvernement andorran fournit, lors de chaque  édition du Forum des jeunes, une contribution volontaire visant à permettre la participation d’un jeune délégué d'un pays  en développement. À ce propos, il est important de souligner le rôle que jouent la Commission nationale andorrane pour  l’UNESCO et le Département de la jeunesse andorran pour promouvoir la participation et l’engagement de jeunes  Andorrans à des manifestations consacrées aux jeunes.
30.5 Madame la Présidente, l’Andorre a participé activement à la célébration de l’Année internationale du  rapprochement des cultures en 2010. À cet égard, la deuxième édition de l’Art Camp a été organisée en Andorre par la  Commission nationale andorrane pour l’UNESCO, en collaboration avec la société civile andorrane et les autorités  locales et gouvernementales. La Principauté d’Andorre, Madame la Présidente, se réjouit de faire partie de l’UNESCO,  organisation qui œuvre encore et toujours en faveur d’une éducation pour tous dans toutes les parties de la planète afin  de contribuer à l’édification d’un monde plus juste, dans la paix. Je vous remercie de votre attention.
(32.1) Mr Ben Bouzid (Algeria) translation from the Arabic:   Madam President of the General Conference, Madam Chair of the Executive Board, Madam Director-General of  UNESCO, Excellencies, ladies and gentlemen, allow me at the outset to congratulate Ms Katalin Bogyay on her election as  President of the current session of the General Conference of UNESCO, a task which she will assume with competence and  ability in view of her readiness to engage with the Other and her great fund of cultural knowledge.
(32.2) At the beginning of the present century, with all the indicators pointing to its being replete with dangers threatening  world peace, we expect that the challenges facing UNESCO in the future will be more complex than those it is seeking to meet  today. In addition to a world full of armed conflicts flaring up here and there, making the climate tenser, there is a ferocious  globalization of the international economy and an ongoing impoverishment of human communities which are stripped of  everything, not to mention the expected consequences of all the repeated financial crises which are added to this desperate  scene and which are undermining the foundations of the developed societies.
(32.3) Ladies and gentlemen, there is little doubt that the agenda of the 36th session of the General Conference of  UNESCO clearly reflects UNESCO’s advanced awareness of the new challenges relating to the rapid transformations under  way in the world, including the themes of inclusive quality education for all, “ruler-approach” education as a strategy for  harmonious and sustainable development, and early childhood education, and finally, ensuring that learners take in the deep- seated principles of tolerance among cultures.
(32.4) It thus seems clear to us that the expertise acquired by UNESCO through the diversity of its plans of action rooted in  the Millennium Development Goals with their expanded scope, is not confined to the educational aspect alone; it is also clearly  based on an outstanding ability, which is more than ever necessary, to perceive and foresee the political and cultural factors  shaping a world in constant ebullition.
(32.5) It is a matter today of adopting a global approach towards educational issues rather than asking the same old  questions in sectoral isolation, such that educational policies are characterized by greater validity and effectiveness.  Consequently, the right of all to education within this new paradigm becomes inevitable and inseparable from the right to  development, and the conjunction of these two values can only be effected if based on strong political will for economic  investment in a strategic wager on what is truly worthy of attention, in other words, human resources.
(32.6) Ladies and gentlemen, the question being asked today of those in charge of education is most emphatically: how  can we do more with fewer resources in order to ensure continuing education to teachers and trainers in order to achieve  beneficial and modern educational programmes and content, leadership of the educational system, and pedagogical  innovations.
(32.7) Algeria, which has courageously undertaken to renew the administration of its educational system based on global  values of intellectual modernity and socialism, is determined to pursue its course in this direction. It will never leave any room  for any economic or financial temptations which come at the expense of the right of every Algerian to quality education, this,  for us, is a political option from which there can be no turning back.
(32.8) Turning to the cultural field, it should be noted that Algeria has seven world heritage sites, for which the national legal  arrangements have been completed. This is why my country believes that the time has come for it to stand for election to the  World Heritage Committee, and I therefore appeal to you, ladies and gentlemen, to lend us your support for this candidature.
(32.9) Ladies and gentlemen, before concluding this rapid review, I am bound to salute the recommendation adopted by the  Executive Board concerning the candidature of Palestine in its legitimate aspiration to become a Member State and part of the  great family of our Organization. I urge you, ladies and gentlemen, Members of the General Conference, to act in unison to  help Palestine, nay to help the world and to help peace. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your attention. Peace and the  mercy and blessings of God be upon you.
33. The President:    Merci beaucoup Monsieur le Ministre. Now I would like to call His Excellency Mir Changez Khan Jamali, Minister  of Science and Technology of Pakistan.
34.1 Mr Khan Jamali (Pakistan):   Bismillāh ir-rahmān ir-rahīm (In the name of God, the Merciful, the Compassionate). Madam President of the  General Conference, Madam Chair of the Executive Board, Ms Irina Bokova, Director-General of UNESCO,  Excellencies, ladies and gentlemen, as-salāmu ‘alaikum (Peace be upon you). Madam President, in congratulating you  on your election to this prestigious office, allow me to avail of this opportunity and congratulate Member States on the  election of the three eminent women to lead the three bodies of UNESCO. I also thank the outgoing President Mr  Davidson Hepburn for his excellent handling of this responsible position. At the outset, Pakistan offers its deep  condolences to the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia on the sad demise of Crown Prince Sultan Bin Abdul-Aziz. Pakistan is  mourning the death of Madam Nusrat Bhutto, the wife of our ex-Prime Minister Zulfikar Ali Bhutto and the mother of  Pakistan’s first woman Prime Minister, Benazir Bhutto. We share the pain of Turkey that was struck by a massive  earthquake a few days ago. Our heartfelt sympathies go to Thailand, which is suffering from unprecedented floods.
34.2 Madam President, climate change is causing natural disasters, the more devastating impact of which is on  developing countries, least developed countries (LDCs) and small island developing States (SIDS). In this regard,  Pakistan calls for the merging of education for all (EFA) and education for sustainable development (ESD) so that an  essential synergy is created. Pakistan believes that the investments in disaster risk reduction through education can  result in changes in perception and behaviour that reduce the risk and cost of environmental crisis. There is also a  multisectoral dimension which needs to be taken into account: for example, Pakistan’s Moenjodaro, the 4,500-year-old  heritage, was recently damaged by unprecedented rain. We would like to specifically refer the matter to the World  Heritage Committee and the Intersectoral Platform on Climate Change.
34.3 Madam President, the volatile financial markets, unemployment and rising food and commodity prices are  putting a strain on national budgets. Relevant to UNESCO is that the risks to both economic and social development  threaten the achievements of the Millennium Development Goals (MDGs), particularly those of EFA, which we know is  not on track. Pakistan therefore feels it is necessary to begin work on an agenda beyond 2015, and for the donors to  honour their financial commitments made in 2005. Further donor cooperation needs to be strengthened; we recommend  a pool-funded mechanism such as a global fund for education. Madam President, allow me to inform you that according  to Article 5(a) of the 18th amendment to the Constitution of Pakistan, education has become a fundamental right.  Pakistan’s strong political commitment is reflected in the Prime Minister’s decision to declare 2011 as a Year of  Education in Pakistan.
34.4 Pakistan welcomes the successful convening of the Youth Forum. We believe that youth must be included in the  mainstream process of UNESCO. Unemployment of educated youth is a recognized problem; therefore, there is a  special need for programmes that build twenty-first century skills and offer technical and vocational education and  training (TVET). Madam President, let me bring to your kind attention a very important issue. There is a very critical  energy deficit in many countries. More than 80% of Africa’s population are without electricity. Pakistan also suffers from a  huge energy deficit, which retards economic growth. UNESCO needs to assist developing countries in the use of solar  and other renewable energies through sharing experiences and expertise. Madam President, the world is witnessing the  rise in extremism and incidences of terrorism. Pakistan firmly believes that respect for cultural diversity brings the fruit of  peaceful coexistence. We need to harness the potential of education by inclusion of respect for other cultural values in  the curriculum.
34.5 Pakistan endorses the Director-General’s policy statement and particularly commends her proposed reform of  the field network action plan. We wish her God Speed in the attainment of reform to perform.
34.6 Pakistan keenly awaits the Palestinian Spring through the realization of the independent State status. We  support the entry of Palestine to UNESCO as a Member State. We expect this will allow for a constructive participation in  UNESCO to promote peace through dialogue among civilizations and cultures.
34.7 I would like to conclude with the words of Benazir Bhutto, the martyred former Prime Minister of Pakistan, who  stated in her speech as far back as 2005 on the issue of averting the clash of civilizations through justice and human  rights: “Justice is economic independence; justice is social equality. Nations make choices and choices lead to  consequences, and these consequences are intertwined. They are difficult to separate. The girl who is illiterate has no  future – fundamentally not free. Irrespective of constitutions and elections, the cause of human rights must begin with us,  within our individual communities and within our own nations”. Many thanks for your attention. May Allah bless you all.  Thank you.
35. The President:   Thank you very much Your Excellency. May I now welcome the Minister of Education of Angola. Your  Excellency Mr Mpinda Simão, the floor is yours, Sir.
36.1 M. Mpinda Simão (Angola) (discours prononcé en portugais ; texte français fourni par la délégation) :   Madame la Présidente de la Conférence générale, Madame la Présidente du Conseil exécutif, Madame la  Directrice générale, chers collègues, Distingués délégués, Mesdames et Messieurs, je commencerai par saluer et  féliciter Son Excellence, Madame la Présidente, pour son élection. Elle va conduire les travaux de cette session et je lui  souhaite plein succès dans cette mission. J’aimerais aussi saisir cette occasion pour féliciter particulièrement la  Directrice générale de l’UNESCO, Mme Irina Bokova, pour son action globalement audacieuse dans la conduite de cette  haute institution du savoir universel, et plus particulièrement pour ses initiatives novatrices visant à intégrer  objectivement les besoins et les priorités des États membres dans chacun des grands programmes sectoriels, selon une  approche holistique et orientée vers des résultats visibles sur le terrain.
36.2 L’Angola prend acte des efforts qui ont conduit au maintien d’un équilibre relatif entre une option budgétaire  fondée sur une croissance nominale zéro et le besoin de mettre en œuvre des programmes stratégiques et des projets  prioritaires ciblés pour l’exercice biennal 2012-2013. L’Angola souscrit à ces efforts. Nous aimerions attirer l’attention sur  la nécessité de mieux prendre en considération le contenu et les moyens à mettre en œuvre pour assurer le lancement  de programmes chers à l’Afrique, tels que les priorités Afrique et Égalité des genres. Il nous semble essentiel que soit  observé le principe de hiérarchisation des actions qui renforce de manière durable les capacités des États membres en  matière d’exécution. Le Gouvernement angolais est fortement engagé en faveur de la création de conditions structurelles  nécessaires pour atteindre les Objectifs du Millénaire pour le développement et ceux fixés à Dakar en 2000 pour  l’Éducation pour tous. Cet engagement s’inscrit dans le cadre d’un processus de partenariat multisectoriel et  pluridisciplinaire qui englobe plusieurs acteurs tels que le gouvernement et les administrations locales, le secteur privé,  la société civile et les organismes des Nations Unies, en particulier l’UNESCO. À ce jour, nos langues nationales  constituent un instrument de la stratégie pour l’alphabétisation et l’accélération scolaire.
36.3 Dans le cadre de la réforme éducative conduite par le Gouvernement depuis 2004 au niveau des sous- systèmes d’enseignement primaire, secondaire et professionnel, et dont les objectifs couvrent l’expansion du réseau  scolaire, l’amélioration de la qualité de l’enseignement et la valorisation du corps enseignant, nous pouvons vérifier que  le nombre d’élèves a augmenté de manière considérable, passant de près de 2,6 millions en 2002 à plus de 6 millions  en 2010, soit un taux de croissance annuel de 2,9 %, qui s’est accompagné de la construction de 54 000 nouvelles  salles de classe. Pendant la même période, le taux de réussite a augmenté, de 46 % à 80 %, et la croissance des  effectifs de l’enseignement a été de l’ordre de 80 %, passant de 115 000 à plus de 200 000 enseignants.  L’enseignement supérieur a connu ces derniers temps une croissance notable. En 2005, le pays ne comptait qu’une  seule université et quelques établissements d’enseignement supérieur privés accueillant quelque 40 000 étudiants.  Actuellement, on dénombre 17 établissements d’enseignement supérieur publics, et 22 privés, fréquentés par environ
150 000 étudiants.
36.4 Au titre de l’initiative UNESCO d’éducation aux sciences de la Terre en Afrique, le Gouvernement angolais  s’apprête à créer un centre d’excellence pour la formation doctorale en sciences de la Terre aux fins du développement  durable. Ce centre sera chargé d’assurer la formation des jeunes scientifiques angolais et de ceux de la région dans le  cadre d’un partenariat stratégique entre le Gouvernement, des universités du monde entier et le secteur privé, qui en  assure le financement. Le projet est conçu en conformité avec les critères définis par l’UNESCO en vue de sa  désignation comme centre de catégorie 2. S’agissant du défi lié au changement climatique, nous mentionnerons ici le  grand projet Angola LNG en cours dans la ville portuaire de Soyo, au nord-ouest du pays, qui désigne l’un des plus  grands producteurs de gaz naturel liquéfié. L’usine entrera en fonctionnement au premier trimestre 2012 avec une  capacité de production installée de l’ordre de 2,5 millions de tonnes par an, et une capacité de stockage de 360 000 m3  de gaz naturel liquéfié, ce qui devrait permettre de réduire considérablement la production de gaz à effet de serre.
36.5 En ce qui concerne la préservation et la protection de la biodiversité, l’Angola participe, en partenariat avec  quatre pays voisins (Botswana, Namibie, Zambie et Zimbabwe), au développement du grand projet environnemental  nommé Kaza-Okavango, dont les caractéristiques écologiques et humaines sont exceptionnelles. La superficie de  paysage protégé sur le territoire angolais est de l’ordre de 70 000 km².
36.6 On fait souvent référence au potentiel de l’éducation et de la culture pour le développement durable de nos  pays, dans le but d’atteindre pleinement le bien-être, condition nécessaire à un climat de paix universelle. Aussi,  réjouissons-nous de la tenue d’un Forum des dirigeants qui interpelle l’UNESCO sur sa contribution à l’édification d’une  culture de la paix et au développement durable. Mon Gouvernement se félicite par ailleurs de l’inscription des archives  de Dembos au Registre de la Mémoire du monde de l’UNESCO. Il se félicite également de la recommandation adressée  par le Conseil exécutif à la présente session de la Conférence générale concernant l’inclusion du nom de la reine Ginga  Mbande dans le calendrier commémoratif des anniversaires des personnalités ayant marqué l’histoire de l’humanité.
36.7 J’aimerais porter à votre connaissance le fait que le Parlement angolais a déjà approuvé l’adhésion de la  République d’Angola aux conventions suivantes liées au Secteur de la culture : Convention pour la protection des biens  culturels en cas de conflit armé ; Convention pour la sauvegarde du patrimoine culturel immatériel ; Convention  d’UNIDROIT sur les biens culturels volés ou illicitement exportés ; Convention sur la protection et la promotion de la  diversité des expressions culturelles.
36.8 Enfin, permettez-moi de conclure en remerciant l’UNESCO de son engagement croissant dans divers  programmes et projets angolais relevant de ses domaines de compétence, et en l’assurant du renforcement de notre  coopération. Je vous remercie de votre attention.  Ms Bogyay resumes the Chair.
37. The President:    Thank you very much for your statement, Your Excellency. And now I would like to welcome to the floor the  Minister of Education of Namibia, His Excellency Mr Abraham Iyambo. The floor is yours, Sir.
38.1 Mr Iyambo (Namibia):   Madam President of the General Conference, Madam Chair of the Executive Board, Madam Director-General,  Your Excellencies. Madam President, Namibia congratulates you on your election and wishes you every success. The  Draft Programme and Budget before us come at a critical moment in the history of UNESCO and of the United Nations  system. The year 2015 set for the achievement of education for all (EFA) and internationally agreed upon goals and  commitments is approaching very fast, almost at supersonic speed. In 2000 in Dakar we collectively promised humanity  that each and every person on planet Earth would have the right to inclusive, equitable and quality education. This was a  firm affirmation of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights adopted way back in 1948. Madam President, if  contemporary generations fail, we would have betrayed future generations. The UNESCO family has a noble global duty  to provide sharpened, focused resolved leadership and effective coordination to accelerate the achievement of EFA and  the Millennium Development Goals (MDGs). Quality teachers’ preparation guarantees quality education; therefore  continuous professional development of teachers at all phases of education and their welfare remain our urgent  responsibility. In the same vein, we must harness and leverage the power of information and communication  technologies (ICTs) to improve the quality of education.
38.2 The forces of climate change and their negative impacts are a real threat to humanity. No nation is spared from  it, and no nation can face it alone. Namibia therefore expresses its profound gratitude to UNESCO for its swift response  when a flood hit Namibia this year. We are confident that with the scientific support of UNESCO, we will find mitigating  measures to the persistent calamities of floods and droughts.
38.3 Culture is a key element for sustainable development. Namibia therefore applauds this positive move and  encourages UNESCO to continue providing technical support and building capacity in this critical area. Much attention,  Madam President, has been paid recently to the reform with respect to the field network. Madam President, judicious  attention must be made to ensure the meaningful and vibrant presence of UNESCO in the field. Namibia highly values  the role of National Commissions. They enhance and accentuate the visibility and viability of UNESCO in Member  States. We should therefore ensure that their role is not reduced or marginalized.
38.4 The dawn of the next Medium-Term Strategy for this Organization is imminent. Madam President, we must  therefore re-position ourselves. Our common strength lies in our deep solidarity to share in the richness of our  knowledge, our common heritage. Let us reach out to each other. Let us listen to each other, but with a genuine view to  understanding one another. We have the capacity to make life worth living for all of us. All that is required from us is to  rededicate and recommit ourselves to the living ideals and values of our forerunners, the founders of our great UNESCO.  I thank you very much.
39. The President:   Thank you very much Your Excellency. And now I would like to give the floor to the Minister of Education and  Sports of Uganda. Her Excellency Ms Jessica Rose Epel Alupo, the floor is yours, Madam.
40.1 Ms Alupo (Uganda):    Madam President of the General Conference, Madam Chair of the Executive Board, Madam Director-General,  Your Excellencies, ladies and gentlemen. Madam President, I congratulate you upon your election to the Chair of this  session of the General Conference and I bring you greetings from the Pearl of Africa. Madam President, the global  economic downslide that hit the world two years ago has been worsened by natural disasters such as earthquakes,  floods and landslides. These calamities have negatively impacted on the aspirations of many countries to attain the  internationally agreed goals, particularly the Millennium Development Goals (MDGs) and education for all (EFA) goals.  These are some of the challenges UNESCO, with the support of Member States, must grapple with in the next biennium.  The challenges must be taken head on if UNESCO must remain faithful to the spirit of its founders, and also fulfil its  mandate and contribute to the entrenchment of a culture of peace and non-violence, eradication of poverty as well as the  promotion of sustainable development in the world.
40.2 Madam President, my delegation appreciates document 36 C/5, the Draft Programme and Budget for the 2012-
2013 biennium, and my delegation also commends those who prepared it. The document clearly outlines the needs and  aspirations of our Organization in the next biennium. We note the effort to rationalize resource allocation and to avail  more resources to programme activities. We also appreciate the response in the document to the needs of the less  developed countries, and in particular the African continent. In this connection, Madam President, my delegation  endorses the proposed priorities and main lines of action in all the major programmes. The proposals are in tandem with  the aspirations of the Organization expressed in the Medium-Term Strategy, document 34 C/4, which we hope will be  anchored and rolled on into document 37 C/4.
40.3 In Major Programme I, we note that issues of inclusive education, quality education, teachers, HIV/Aids and so  on and so forth have been addressed. We urge that these activities related to accelerating progress towards attaining  EFA goals at country level by 2015 be fast-tracked. In Uganda, universal primary education (UPE) and universal  secondary education (USE) have enabled us to advance towards attaining some of the EFA goals. We have recorded  increase in access to primary education and secondary education as well as tertiary. The main challenges at all levels  are quality and relevance. Quality is the catchword of our education sector’s strategic plan whose quest is the provision  and the foundation of functional skills to learners, particularly at primary and secondary levels. In Major Programme II,  Madam President, we acknowledge the role of science and technology in improving the quality of life of our people. We  support the UNESCO engineering initiative which will accentuate the role of engineering in tackling the various  challenges in life. We would like to see more support to the involvement of girl children and women in science,  technology and innovation (STI). Madam President, we recognize the focus in Major Programme III on the promotion of  ethics of science and technology as well as social transformation and the delivery of sustainable development. We  support these particularly at this time when we are constituting our national bioethics and management of social  transformation committees to champion issues of ethics and development in Uganda. We will also create awareness of  issues of ethics and science, human rights, HIV/Aids and other social services. Madam President, development must not  only have a human face; it must also be anchored in the cultures of the people it serves. The attention on the  conventions on culture in Major Programme IV underscores the importance of the promotion, preservation and  development of culture and heritage. Uganda’s policies on culture, tourism and education commit us to conservation and  promotion of heritage, involvement of community museums, promotion of intercultural dialogue and cultural diversity. In  this respect, in addition to the conventions we are party to, we are in advanced stages of becoming party to the 2005  Convention. In Major Programme V, Madam President, we support the focus on the promotion of freedom of expression  and information, and fostering communication. We have created a suitable environment for growth in the communication  and information sector, particularly private sector participation. We plan to expand our community multimedia centres  network to reach out to larger communities with messages on sustainable development.
40.5 Madam President, the Director-General needs our support to implement the 2012-2013 programme. She has  given us the argument to support both zero real growth and zero nominal growth options. Because of the dire global  economic situation we are faced with, my delegation painfully supports the zero nominal growth option. Madam  President, reform in UNESCO is an ongoing process. The Director-General has argued for reform to perform. We look  forward to reform that will enhance the relevance, visibility and impact of the Organization to do this. The review of  collaboration with the National Commissions is a reaffirmation of their importance as gateways of UNESCO in Member  States. Madam President, as I conclude, allow me to express our appreciation to the Director-General, the Secretariat
168  both at Headquarters and in the field, for the support extended to Uganda during the last biennium through the regular  budget participation. Madam Chairperson, finally I thank you for supporting our Organization and for your attention. For  God and my country.
41. The President:   Thank you very much, Your Excellency, for your statement. And now I’m very happy to welcome to UNESCO  the Minister of Education of Haiti. Your Excellency Mr Réginald Paul, the floor is yours, Sir.
42.1  M. Paul (Haïti) :   Madame la Présidente de la Conférence générale, Madame la Présidente du Conseil exécutif, Madame la  Directrice générale de l’UNESCO, chers collègues, Distingués délégués, Mesdames et Messieurs, j’aimerais en tout  premier lieu vous adresser mes félicitations, Madame la Présidente, pour votre élection à ce poste, en vous souhaitant  du succès dans votre mission et en saluant Mme la Présidente du Conseil exécutif ainsi que les membres de cet organe,  au nom du Président de la République, S. E. M. Michel Joseph Martelly, et du Premier Ministre, S. E. M. Garry Conille,  ainsi qu’en celui du peuple haïtien. Je voudrais remercier la Directrice générale de l’UNESCO pour la grande  mobilisation qu’elle a orchestrée en faveur de notre pays au lendemain du séisme du 12 janvier 2010. La nomination de  l’ex-Gouverneure générale du Canada, Mme Michaëlle Jean, comme envoyée spéciale de l’UNESCO pour Haïti  représente tout un symbole dans le cadre de cette mobilisation. Aujourd’hui, face à cette auguste assemblée, c’est un  grand honneur pour moi de prendre la parole en tant que chef de délégation de mon pays, à la 36e session de la  Conférence générale, la première après le séisme du 12 janvier 2010. Le peuple haïtien a apprécié l’élan de solidarité  des États membres de notre Organisation qui, dès l’annonce de cet évènement et de ses effets, ont volé au secours de  la nation, victime du déchaînement des forces naturelles. Je saisis cette occasion, au nom de mon peuple, pour adresser  mes vifs remerciements aux membres de toutes les délégations présentes à la Conférence générale. Vous toutes et tous  qui, de loin, avez souffert avec nous ; qui, de près, avez bravé les dangers des secousses à répétition pour nous porter  secours et qui avez consenti à nous accompagner dans la difficile reconstruction. Et je saurais gré à chaque délégation  de transmettre nos remerciements à son peuple pour la solidarité manifestée envers mon pays. Dans ce contexte, nous  avons une pensée toute particulière pour le peuple turc qui vient d’être frappé par un fort séisme. Ces moments de  grande détresse nous rappellent le rôle de l’UNESCO, qui s’est toujours montrée présente et active. Il nous faut donc  croire en notre Organisation, et continuer à serrer les rangs autour d’elle.
42.2 Mesdames et Messieurs, la République d’Haïti a toujours été engagée, et continuera de l’être, aux côtés de  l’UNESCO. Malgré les profondes crises sociopolitiques du passé et plusieurs catastrophes naturelles qui ont accentué  l’affaiblissement de l’État, la détermination du gouvernement actuel laisse augurer des progrès dans les domaines  d’action de l’UNESCO. Ainsi, grâce à la ferme volonté et au dynamisme du Président haïtien, sans oublier l’appui des  partenaires, l’éducation pour tous (EPT) vient de connaître un nouvel élan en Haïti. En effet, le processus d’accès gratuit  à l’école, que prône le Président de la République, a permis à 772 000 enfants de bénéficier de services éducatifs  gratuits, dont 142 000 ont eu accès à l’école pour la première fois. Dans cette optique, nos efforts seront concentrés vers  la scolarisation gratuite de 1 500 000 enfants au terme du quinquennat, ce qui devrait permettre à Haïti d’atteindre les  Objectifs du Millénaire pour le développement dans ce domaine. Toujours dans le cadre des initiatives en faveur de  l’Éducation pour tous, l’État haïtien a assuré l’accès gratuit à l’école de 235 000 enfants, avec l’appui de la Banque  mondiale, de la Banque de développement des Caraïbes, la Coopération canadienne et la Banque interaméricaine de  développement. Parallèlement, les efforts pour l’amélioration de la qualité de l’éducation et le renforcement de la  gouvernance du système se poursuivent, avec l’appui de nos partenaires internationaux.
42.3 Pour faire face à l’ensemble des problèmes qui se sont aggravés sous l’effet du séisme du 12 janvier 2010, le  Ministère a élaboré un plan opérationnel de refondation de notre système éducatif, qui est en cours de mise en œuvre.  De même, nous maintenons les jeunes mobilisés, à travers le réseau haïtien des écoles associées de l’UNESCO, autour  de la reforestation, des problèmes liés à l’eau et de l’éducation au changement climatique, en vue de leur contribution au  développement durable du pays. Durant ces deux dernières années, le Gouvernement haïtien a déployé de nombreux  efforts pour développer les programmes scientifiques. Outre le Programme hydrologique international, nous avons  concentré les énergies sur la mise en œuvre des activités du Programme sur l’Homme et la biosphère. Aussi sommes- nous heureux d’annoncer ici que, au terme d’un long processus, nous avons finalisé la proposition concernant la création  de notre première réserve de biosphère en Haïti. C’est l’occasion pour nous de remercier l’UNESCO et le Gouvernement  espagnol de leur précieuse contribution au projet de création de cette réserve. Grâce à l’appui de l’UNESCO, nous  avons également entrepris de grands efforts au niveau du Secteur de la culture, surtout dans le domaine du patrimoine,  en termes d’inventaire, de récupération, de protection, de sauvegarde et de transmission.
42.4 Madame la Présidente, Mesdames et Messieurs les Chefs de délégation, Distingués délégués, nous sommes  conscients des limites de notre Organisation, mais nous devons demeurer tout aussi conscients du fait que l’UNESCO  est un organisme indispensable à la poursuite des idéaux de paix, de tolérance, de respect de l’autre, de dialogue et de  protection de l’environnement par la promotion de l’éducation, de la culture, de la science et de la technologie. Ce sont  aussi les principales voies pour faire face aux différentes crises qui nous menacent, car c’est grâce à elles que les  individus développeront les aptitudes nécessaires pour relever les nouveaux défis, amélioreront le vivre-ensemble, feront  émerger les comportements propices à l’épanouissement tant individuel que collectif et, enfin, instaureront des pratiques  salutaires pour le développement humain. Je vous remercie de votre attention.
43. The President:   Merci beaucoup, Monsieur le Ministre. May I ask the Minister of External Relations of Monaco, His Excellency  Mr José Badia, to take the floor. Monsieur.
44.1 M. Badia (Monaco) :   Madame la Présidente, Madame la Directrice générale, Excellences, Mesdames et Messieurs, permettez-moi  tout d’abord, Madame la Présidente, de vous féliciter pour votre récente élection. Soyez assurée de la confiance que  mon pays vous porte pour appréhender avec efficacité le très dense ordre du jour de cette Conférence générale.  Permettez-moi ensuite, Madame la Directrice générale, de vous renouveler le soutien plein et entier de la Principauté de  Monaco pour le travail que vous effectuez au sein de l’UNESCO. Nous vous félicitons pour la réforme que vous avez  entreprise dès votre élection et nous nous réjouissons du vent d’humanisme qui inspire cette institution. Vous êtes  judicieusement parvenue à faire de l’UNESCO un partenaire qui compte lors des grandes rencontres internationales et  dans le changement qui s’opère dans nos sociétés. Par ailleurs, nous ne saurions assez souligner votre combat pour  protéger l’intégrité morale de l’Organisation.
44.2 Mesdames et Messieurs, face à l’ensemble des événements extraordinaires qui se sont produits cette année, le  mandat de l’UNESCO continue de nous apparaître fondamentalement important. En premier lieu, cet élan démocratique  venu de la jeunesse, qu’il s’agisse du « Printemps arabe » ou du mouvement des « Indignés » du Nord comme du Sud,  nous démontre la nécessité de tenir un Forum des Jeunes en marge de la Conférence générale. Le thème choisi pour  cette 7e édition, qui vient d’avoir lieu, est particulièrement en phase avec les préoccupations des jeunes. Nous nous  réjouissons d’ailleurs de l’inscription du rapport de ce forum à l’ordre du jour de notre Conférence. En second lieu, la  Principauté de Monaco réitère son soutien aux deux priorités transversales de l’UNESCO que sont l’Afrique et l’égalité  entre les sexes. Nous espérons que l’adoption et la mise en œuvre de la réforme du dispositif hors Siège, notamment en  Afrique, permettront d’accroître l’efficacité de l’action de l’UNESCO sur le terrain. Le Forum de haut niveau sur l’efficacité  de l’aide, qui aura lieu prochainement à Busan, en République de Corée, devrait en ce sens nous donner de nouveaux  outils.
44.3 Le thème de l’égalité entre les sexes a été placé en haut de l’agenda politique international avec la création en  janvier dernier d’ONU-Femmes, l’entité des Nations Unies pour l’égalité des sexes et l’autonomisation des femmes. À  cet égard, je tiens à rappeler l’engagement de la Principauté de Monaco en faveur des femmes, dont le rôle est essentiel  pour le développement et la pacification de nos sociétés. Les discriminations à l‘égard des femmes et des filles doivent à  ce titre être combattues. Son Altesse Royale la Princesse de Hanovre, Ambassadrice de bonne volonté de l’UNESCO,  s’engage depuis de nombreuses années en faveur de l’éducation des femmes et des jeunes filles en Afrique. Dans le  cadre de l’initiative « Unis dans l’action », nous encourageons le Secrétariat à collaborer étroitement avec ONU-Femmes  sur cette question, les deux institutions ayant des compétences propres, mais complémentaires.
44.4 Mesdames et Messieurs, l’éducation constitue pour nous un programme phare de l’UNESCO. Ainsi, les six  objectifs de l’Éducation pour tous restent notre préoccupation. Malgré des résultats encourageants, de nombreux  problèmes persistent. Le fait qu’il y ait 793 millions d’adultes analphabètes dans le monde démontre malheureusement  bien l’ampleur du défi qu’il nous faut relever. Pour y parvenir, une programmation stratégique et rigoureuse, ainsi que  des moyens budgétaires adaptés sont nécessaires, mais une politique de résultats ne doit pas faire passer au second  plan la qualité de l’enseignement et la formation des maîtres. Il est vital d’appuyer l’enseignement technique et  professionnel ainsi que l’éducation au développement durable afin de renforcer la compétence des jeunes et de les aider  à préparer leur avenir. La pratique du sport doit également être promue et intégrée dans les programmes d’éducation,  tant pour la santé physique des jeunes que pour les valeurs de tolérance qu’elle véhicule.
44.5 Les diverses catastrophes naturelles que nous avons pu observer ces deux dernières années, ainsi que les  avancées scientifiques n’ont pu que nous convaincre du dérèglement climatique qui est en train de se produire, et dont  certaines populations subissent déjà les effets. Le prochain Sommet « Planète Terre » qui aura lieu à Rio en juin 2012  doit être l’occasion de jeter des bases solides pour le développement global d’une économie verte. Son Altesse  Sérénissime, le Prince Albert II de Monaco, a d’ailleurs annoncé la tenue en Principauté d’une réunion d’experts de haut  niveau sur la gestion durable des océans, du 28 au 30 novembre prochain, qui apportera sa contribution aux travaux  préparatoires de Rio + 20. En effet, le Prince Souverain forme le vœu que la communauté internationale place les mers  et les océans en tête de l’agenda politique du prochain Sommet « Planète Terre ». Sur un autre plan, le 40e anniversaire  de la Convention du patrimoine mondial nous démontre la pertinence et l’efficacité du mandat de l’UNESCO en ce qui  concerne la culture. La coopération culturelle est un facteur de paix et ses implications dans le tissu économique sont  notamment illustrées par la Convention de 2005 sur la protection et la promotion de la diversité des expressions  culturelles. En ces temps de restrictions budgétaires, l’application efficace des instruments normatifs déjà existants doit  constituer notre priorité, car la capacité normative de cette Organisation est ce qui fait sa force ; la gestion et le suivi des  conventions actuelles doivent donc faire l’objet de notre plus grande attention.
44.6 Mesdames et Messieurs, nous tenons encore une fois à saluer l’effort de rationalisation entrepris par la  Directrice générale au sein de cette Organisation. Nous saluons tout spécialement l’Évaluation externe indépendante qui  a été réalisée et nous espérons que ses recommandations seront appliquées avec force et diligence. Nous nous  félicitons également du Projet de programme et de budget (C/5) fondé sur une croissance nominale zéro. Toutefois, ces  efforts doivent être conjugués avec la poursuite de l’évaluation des activités, l’abandon des programmes qui ne sont plus  pertinents, et l’utilisation de la langue française dans les travaux de cette Organisation. Vous avez souligné, Madame la  Directrice générale, le lien étroit et essentiel entre culture et développement. Il nous faut en effet penser la culture de  manière globale et l’envisager comme un « accélérateur du développement ». Culture, éducation et droits de la  personne constituent les piliers fondamentaux d’une véritable culture de paix et d’un « humanisme concret ». Je vous  remercie de votre attention.
45. The President:   Merci beaucoup, Monsieur le Ministre. May I now ask the Secretary of State of Foreign Affairs of Morocco to  come to the podium. Her Excellency Ms Latifa Akharbach, the floor is yours.
(46.1) Ms Akharbach (Morocco) (translation from the Arabic):   Madam President, Madam Director-General, Your Excellencies ministers, ladies and gentlemen, in recent years,  Morocco has endeavoured, under the wise leadership of King Mohammed VI, in a spirit of ongoing reform and with a view to  ensuring the consistency of his public policies and national laws with his international commitments, to shape its education and  training system in accordance with a strategic vision which respects the right of Moroccan citizens to education and training  and access to knowledge, which is in tune with UNESCO’s firm belief in inculcating the lofty human values of freedom, equality  and tolerance. Morocco’s efforts in this field have been directed in particular at consecrating the right of education for all  children, including those with special needs, gender equality, inculcating the values of citizenship, spreading a spirit of  cooperation, and consolidating a culture of excellence. In this connection, the National Forum for Education for All was  recently held as a new framework for mobilization and cooperation bringing together all players concerned with enhancing the  level of education in Morocco and achieving the education for all (EFA) goals by 2015. Here it should also be pointed out that  the educational system in Morocco devotes particular attention to human rights education, a subject that Morocco has worked  in favour of at the international level: the Human Rights Council of the United Nations adopted in March 2011 a resolution  entitled “United Nations Declaration on Human Rights Education and Training”. Morocco drafted this resolution, together with  Switzerland, and worked to get support for it from the greatest possible number of countries.
(46.2) Ladies and gentlemen, believing in the advantages of South-South cooperation as an beneficial approach, within the  framework of solidarity and integration with a view to meeting the challenges of development, and on the basis of its African  identity, Morocco is keen to pursue relations of cooperation and partnership with the countries of the continent, focusing in  particular on the training of managers and human resources. Morocco also receives 12,000 foreign students, mostly African, of  whom some 7,000 receive Moroccan study grants.
(46.3) Ladies and gentlemen, we are all called upon, as the trustees of the future of this planet, to grapple with the  problems of water-resource depletion, worsening pollution, climate change, and energy and foodstuff crises. In view of the  magnitude of these stakes, Morocco has adopted a national plan which has the revival of green energy as one of its main  planks. In the framework of Morocco’s national strategy, which also relies on international cooperation, an agreement was  concluded between Morocco and UNESCO in August 2011 for the establishment of the Regional Centre for Renewable  Energy and Energy Efficiency in Marrakech.
(46.4) Ladies and gentlemen, as it advances along its democratic course, Morocco entered a fresh qualitative phase last  July by adopting a new constitution following broad consultations and a successful popular referendum. One of the most  important elements in this deep constitutional reform was legislation on cultural rights, the sponsorship of diversity, definition of  the concept of national identity in its various streams: Arab, Islamic, Amazigh, Sahraoui, and Hassaniya, enriched with
171  additional African, Andalusian, Hebrew and Mediterranean tributaries. The new constitution consecrates the third generation of  human rights, which includes the right to life protected from all forms of pollution and all kinds of environmental dangers, in line  with international conventions and instruments relating to that field.
(46.5) Ladies and gentlemen, UNESCO’s Executive Board, at its most recent meeting, through its recommendation that  Palestine be granted full membership in UNESCO, took a positive step on the path to having Palestine join the United Nations  system. This is an objective which Morocco supports and looks forward to seeing come true for our Palestinian brethren in a  sovereign, permanent and just fashion of which they approve, following negotiations based on a precise authority and a  comprehensive agenda. On this basis, the Kingdom of Morocco, under the leadership of His Majesty King Mohammed VI,  Chair of the Jerusalem Committee, renews its firm position in favour of the establishment of a Palestinian State with Jerusalem  as its capital, and vows to spare no effort to that end.
(46.6) Ladies and gentlemen, despite all its achievements, UNESCO still has on its agenda extremely important current  and future issues, such as support for ethics and ideals in relations between States and peoples, considering human security  as a common good which should be generalized, preserved and sponsored, and helping to introduce world cultural and  economic governance. But for this to happen, we all need UNESCO to be strong, creative and capable, thanks to our support  for it, of looking to the horizons of the future. For the sake of all this, the Kingdom of Morocco renews its full support, its sincere  thanks and its best wishes to UNESCO. Thank you for your attention.
47. The President:    Merci beaucoup, Madame. And now I would like to ask the Vice-Minister of Education of Lao People’s  Democratic Republic, Your Excellency Mr Lytou Bouapao, the floor is yours.
48.1 M. Bouapao (République démocratique populaire lao) :   Madame la Présidente de la Conférence générale, Madame la Présidente du Conseil exécutif, Madame la  Directrice générale, Excellences, Mesdames et Messieurs, au nom de la délégation de la République démocratique  populaire lao et en mon nom personnel, permettez-moi, Madame la Présidente, de vous féliciter pour votre élection. Mes  félicitations s’adressent également à tous les membres du bureau. Nous voici de nouveau réunis dans l’enceinte de  l’UNESCO pour débattre des questions éducatives, scientifiques et culturelles, de leur rapport avec le développement  global et du lien étroit entre toutes ces questions et la situation internationale, marquée en ce début de siècle par une  succession de crises et de catastrophes. L’UNESCO, de par son mandat et ses fonctions, est l’institution la mieux placée  pour contribuer avec conscience et efficacité aux efforts internationaux visant à relever les défis du monde moderne,  selon ses moyens et dans les domaines de sa compétence. Notre pays renouvelle sa confiance aux personnes qui  assurent la direction des trois organes de notre Organisation, à savoir, vous, Madame la Présidente, ainsi que la  Présidente du Conseil exécutif et la Directrice générale.
48.2 Madame la Présidente, la préparation du Projet de programme et de budget de l’UNESCO pour 2012-2013 s’est  déroulée dans un contexte particulier ; le premier Programme et budget préparé par Mme la Directrice générale ne  s’inscrit pas moins dans la permanence puisqu’il est aligné sur les grandes priorités globales et les objectifs stratégiques  énoncés dans la Stratégie à moyen terme. À cet égard, nous tenons à dire combien nous apprécions les efforts  consacrés à la préparation du document 36 C/5, fruit d’une coopération étroite et d’un dialogue constructif entre le  Conseil exécutif et la Directrice générale. Ce Programme et budget, révisé à la demande du Conseil exécutif sur la base  d’une croissance nominale zéro, retient l’attention de notre Délégation, qui en a pris bonne note. Cependant, nous  constatons avec regret que les coupures proposées affectent nombre d’activités et de programmes tels que le  Programme de participation, qui constitue pour notre pays l’une des ressources inestimables nous permettant de  participer à la mise en œuvre des activités de l’Organisation. Nous notons, en revanche, avec satisfaction, que le  document 36 C/5 vise à affirmer le rôle de chef de file de l’UNESCO dans l’édification d’une culture de la paix et de la  non-violence. Nous notons également une constante dans le document 36 C/5, qui tient à la nature même de l’UNESCO,  dont le mandat et l’action profondément humanistes reposent sur un paradigme de développement authentiquement  centré sur l’individu.
48.3 Madame la Présidente, soucieux de resserrer les liens très forts qui l’unissent à l’UNESCO, mon pays compte  sur l’aide de l’Organisation pour nous accompagner dans notre processus de réforme de l’enseignement à tous les  niveaux, ainsi que dans la mise en œuvre des Objectifs du Millénaire pour le développement et des objectifs de  l’Éducation pour tous. Pour ce qui est de notre pays, la conférence nationale annuelle de l’éducation a conclu que nous  avions réalisé des progrès continus à tous les niveaux de l’éducation. Ainsi, le taux net de scolarisation à la maternelle  est passé de 15,4 % à 24,5 % et celui du primaire de 91,6 % à 94,1 %. Le taux d’alphabétisation des adultes se situe à
80 % et nous nous efforçons d’atteindre une augmentation annuelle de 5 % pour parvenir à un taux de 99 % en 2015.  Dans ce contexte, avec le soutien technique du Bureau régional de l’UNESCO à Bangkok, notre Ministère a élaboré un  programme d’alphabétisation des chefs de villages ruraux afin de renforcer les capacités des comités villageois de  développement de l’éducation et de donner une impulsion nouvelle au programme d’éducation dans les zones rurales  éloignées. Aussi avons-nous institué des équipes mobiles de formateurs qui s’occupent spécialement de ce programme  d’alphabétisation. La qualité de l’éducation fait toujours défaut et c’est pourquoi le contenu des programmes de chaque  discipline est en cours de rénovation et de révision. Des séminaires nationaux sur l’éducation ayant pour thème  « l’éducation pour la paix et le développement durable » ont été organisés à l’intention des enseignants et des  responsables de l’élaboration des manuels scolaires pour intégrer les idées liées à ce thème. Grâce aux fonds  débloqués pour soutenir les efforts des groupes de travail créés dans le cadre de l’Initiative pour la mise en œuvre  accélérée de l’Éducation pour tous, notre Ministère a pu mettre sur pied un plan d’action.
48.4 Avec le souci de protéger et de préserver notre patrimoine culturel, il me plaît d’exprimer ici, au nom de notre  Gouvernement, notre sentiment de grande satisfaction et de reconnaissance pour l’aide qu’apportent l’UNESCO, les  États membres amis et les organisations non gouvernementales à notre vaste programme de conservation et de  valorisation de la culture nationale. Dans ce contexte, il est à souligner qu’il n’est pas toujours facile de concilier
172  conservation et développement. Tant à Louang Prabang qu’à Vat Phou, deux sites inscrits sur la Liste du patrimoine  mondial, les pressions économiques sont très fortes, mais notre Gouvernement et l’UNESCO veillent à ce que les  travaux de reconstruction et de développement n’empiètent pas sur le travail de conservation et de protection des biens  culturels. Je vous remercie de votre attention.  Mme Nibbeling-Wrießnig (Allemagne) prend la présidence.
49. La Présidente :   Merci. Je donne à présent la parole à S. E. M. Sigmundur Ísfeld, Vice-Ministre des affaires étrangères des Îles  Féroé.
50.1 Mr Ísfeld (Faroes):   Madam President, Excellencies, distinguished delegates. First, Madam President, I would like to congratulate  you on your election as President of this General Conference. For the Faroes this is a very special moment, since it is  the first session of the General Conference we are attending since our country obtained Associate Membership of  UNESCO in 2009. Let me also congratulate Curaçao and Sint Maarten with their Associate Membership of UNESCO.  Ladies and gentlemen, UNESCO rightly focuses on the major challenges of our time: climate change and sustainable  development, a culture for peace, gender equality and education for all. The Faroese appreciate the great work and the  efforts of Director-General Irina Bokova to reform UNESCO and manage the Organization and its programmes in a more  cost-effective manner, as we all realize the demanding financial challenges from the global financial crisis.
50.2 UNESCO has a vital role to play regarding the serious challenge of climate change. UNESCO’s efforts in  capacity building and guidance, especially in relation to developing countries, is very important. The Faroes appreciates  the work of UNESCO’s Intergovernmental Oceanographic Commission, IOC, and recognizes the importance of main line  of action (MLA) 4, mentioned in the draft resolution for Major Programme II – Natural Sciences. The effort of UNESCO  and the IOC to strengthen the understanding of the oceans’ important influence on climate change is most appreciated,  as exemplified in the World Climate Research Programme (WCRP). Now, the Faroe Islands lie in the middle of the North  Atlantic, where the warm waters of the Gulf Stream, where we find the two new Associate Members Curaçao and Sint  Maarten, meets the cold waters of the Arctic where we lie, in the North Atlantic, injecting the oceans with their global  energy. Oceanographic research, where Faroese scientists are working together with international research networks,  suggests a strong and important effect from the relative strength of these ocean currents. The Faroes’ unique location  and size as an island nation dependent on the sea and fisheries make the Faroe Islands a natural centre for innovative  research and technological development. Monitoring and modelling changes in ocean currents and resources in the  North Atlantic and ensuring sustainable fisheries in a clean and productive marine environment are already at the core of  Faroese efforts to make a difference, both at home and internationally. The Faroes have in cooperation with Denmark  and Greenland, as part of the Kingdom of Denmark, developed a strategy for the Arctic from 2011 to 2020, with the aim  of securing a sustainable and peaceful development of that region, also regarding the unique and diverse cultures. The  Faroese contribution to the global challenge of climate change will be to develop the huge potential in the Faroes for new  technologies in clean and self-sufficient energy production, inspired by small-scale, island- and fisheries-dependent  realities.
50.3 Regarding item 8.2 on the agenda, the Faroes supports the draft resolution in document 36 C/24, to facilitate a  meeting of experts in order to finalize a preliminary study of the technical and legal aspects of a possible international  standard-setting instrument for the protection of indigenous and endangered languages for submission to the Executive  Board. For the record, it must be clarified that the Faroese language itself is not endangered; on the contrary, it is a  success story of a very small distinct language that has been able to survive and develop into a modern official language  of a country with a population of only 50,000. Thus, it is likely that some interesting lessons could be drawn from a study  of the Faroese example. I will quote from a Faroese folk song, and I will do it in my own language: “Tað ofta royndist sum  tóktist smátt” – meaning that even what seemed small and feeble proved to show enough resilience to endure. Ladies  and gentlemen, maintaining and developing a diversified family of cultures and languages is not about looking  backwards. It is about facing today’s profound challenges which are global and local at the same time. It is about building  a sustainable common future for all men and women. I thank UNESCO for embracing this important vision. Thank you  very much.
51. The President:    Thank you very much to His Excellency the Deputy Minister of Foreign Affairs of Faroes and I must say that I  appreciated hearing the sound of your beautiful language. That was fantastic, that was a special treat. I now give the  floor to His Excellency Mr Luis Bonilla, Deputy Minister of University Planning of the Bolivarian Republic of Venezuela.
(52.1) Mr Bonilla (Bolivarian Republic of Venezuela) (translation from the Spanish):   Madam President of the General Conference, whom we congratulate on her election, Madam Director-General,  representatives and permanent delegates, ladies and gentlemen. On behalf of the Bolivarian Government, led by President  Hugo Chávez Frías, please receive warm greetings filled with love and hope in a future for humanity in which all people are  included in a fair and equal society, without masters or tyrants. In 1999, Venezuela began a wonderful journey of  transformation. The Bolivarian Revolution is above all an educational and cultural revolution. The figures showing progress  made over the last 12 years testify to that: preschool education coverage was limited, and we have succeeded in increasing its  provision by 65%. In primary education, we have achieved a net enrolment ratio of 93%. The reach of the school meals  programme has increased by more than 3,000%. In the field of technology, we have begun closing the gap and, to date, have  been able to equip more than 25% of poorer students with laptop computers running on the latest technology with educational  software. Over this period, 4,037 new school buildings were built. The Robinson Mission was implemented to combat illiteracy,  and, as a result, Venezuela was declared “an illiteracy-free territory” by UNESCO. In terms of university education, the  Bolivarian Revolution’s inclusive education policies have seen enrolments rise by 283%. This puts Venezuela in fifth place  worldwide and in second place in Latin America and the Caribbean in terms of gross university enrolment rate. In order to  achieve universal access to university education we are working to decentralize and increase the territorial coverage of  academic offerings while associating quality and relevance.
(52.2) The Sucre Mission has proved that the entire population can have access to a university education. It is education  designed around the human being, to eradicate poverty and generate national development with social justice. We believe that  coverage is linked to the need for training and to the productive potential of each of our territories, to ensure that graduates are  able to embark on productive enterprises that will transform the environment. Inclusive education is strongly associated with  the eradication of poverty and social injustice. It is always the poor who suffer to the greatest extent when faced with  oppression or the severity of nature. On that note, let us express our solidarity with the delegations from El Salvador,  Guatemala, Nicaragua, Thailand and Turkey in light of the recent disasters that have affected their countries. Our words of  encouragement and solidarity go out to the people of Libya. We strongly condemn the barbaric actions of the North Atlantic  Treaty Organization (NATO) and its allies in Libya, which resulted in the assassination of the country’s leader Muammar al- Gaddafi. This precedent could be used by imperial powers against any nation of the South that stands in the path of their  policy of domination. We also renounce the disinformation campaigns which aim to undermine stability in Syria, and salute the  political reforms initiated by the country’s authorities. Let us take this the opportunity to express our condolences to the  delegation of Saudi Arabia for the death of the Crown Prince, Sultan Al Saud.
(52.3) Venezuela firmly supports Palestine’s admission as a full member of this Organization, and condemns the pressure  emanating from the United States and Israel to prevent this General Conference – which is free from the threat of a United  Nations Security Council veto – from ratifying Palestine’s admission as a full Member State. While social protests are taking to  the streets of New York, Tel Aviv, Madrid, London, Athens, Rome and Chicago to reclaim their basic rights, including the right  to education, not a single day goes by in Venezuela without new classrooms being opened. UNESCO is called upon to listen  to the clamour of the social rebellion and contribute to finding solutions to the innumerable challenges facing humanity,  including peace in a multipolar world. The reforms at UNESCO cannot be used as a pretext to cut fundamental activities and  programmes, which are consubstantial with the guiding principles that led to the very foundation of the Organization. We  reiterate our concern for proposals such as the so-called “cross-cutting”. UNESCO uses these to justify actions which strip the  content from critical programmes such as human rights, democracy, philosophy, social transformation, multilingualism, the  Slave Route and the Participation Programme, while favouring unsustainable bureaucratic and administrative spending.
(52.4) Ladies and gentlemen, Venezuela, has been recognized by the United Nations for our achievements in the field of  education over recent years, placing us among the countries that have fulfilled the Millennium Development Goals. That is why  we are standing for election to the United Nations Human Rights Council. For Venezuela, education is a fundamental human  right, a public good, a State obligation and not a business or a commodity. We renounce the creation of a university “ranking”  system which, under the pretext of quality, puts the interests of the market before teaching. Ladies and gentlemen, with strong  political will, the Bolivarian Government considers education to be our country’s number one priority, transforming Venezuela  into the greatest classroom in the world. Thank you.
53. The President:    Muchas gracias Your Excellency Luis Bonilla, Deputy Minister from Venezuela. I now give the floor to His  Excellency Mr Mohamed Rosli, Secretary-General to the Ministry of Education of Malaysia. Minister, you have the floor.
54.1 Mr Rosli (Malaysia):   Madam President of the General Conference, Madam Director-General, Madam Chair of the Executive Board,  Excellencies, ladies and gentlemen. At the outset, may I take this opportunity to congratulate you, Madam President, on  your election to the post. I also would like to thank you Madam Director-General for your strong leadership in these  challenging times. Malaysia fully supports the programme of education for all (EFA); however, much effort is still required  by UNESCO as well as national governments for education to reach the unreached and the marginalized groups.  Pockets of illiteracy may still exist beyond 2015. As illiteracy and poverty are so interrelated, EFA programmes will need  continuous support from the international community in order to obliterate illiteracy. For our part, Malaysia has broadened  the scope of EFA to include children well before the age of schooling. For the rural communities, we are encouraging  illiterate parents to participate in community-in-school activities. This informal engagement has led to improvements in  students’ outcome. The interaction between pupils, parents and school has brought about a positive impact on the  wellbeing of the rural community. We in Malaysia are confident of meeting the Millennium Development Goals. We still  have the aspiration of becoming a developed and high-income nation by the year 2020. We believe that education is  indeed a significant ingredient for development. We are committed to ensuring equal access to quality education. The  Government allocates about 20% of the popular public expenditure for educational development. In the recently  announced 2012 budget, more than $16 billion has been allocated to education. Our Government transformation  programme focuses on engagement of all stakeholders across all sectors.
54.2 Madam President, our education system has been enriched with the incorporation of positive values pertaining  to building a culture of peace and sustainable development. We subscribe to the view hailing from our multicultural,  multiethnic, multi-religious and multilingual nation, that cultural diversity must be seen as a source of strength rather than  a source of conflict. We fully support UNESCO’s effort in developing a policy framework to address challenges to cultural  diversity with a view to promoting intercultural dialogue and peace. We believe that peace and harmony are imperatives  of social economic well-being of a nation and the world at large. It is also clear that only in an environment of peace and  harmony we can together build an equitable and just society. We are indeed impressed by UNESCO’s reform agenda.  We note that UNESCO has undertaken a lot of efforts to implement the reform strategy, especially the follow-up  document on the independent external evaluation and the field network reform plan. We congratulate you once again,  Madam Director-General, for carrying out the distinctive reforms over the past two years, both at Headquarters and in the  field, despite the financial constraints. Nonetheless, the double financial and economic slowdown has affected the  programmes as well as the budget of the Organization. We are confident that the Director-General will be able to refocus  future initiatives based on strategic priorities as well as to reposition UNESCO around its mandate for the benefit of  member countries. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, we live in an ever-changing world. Despite the financial  turbulence, we have full confidence that UNESCO will remain at the forefront to fulfil its role as conscience of mankind.  By virtue of its Constitution, UNESCO is in a unique position to make statements, where necessary, from an ethical and  moral standpoint on matters pertaining to the common destiny of mankind. And on that note, I thank you very much.
55. The President:    Thank you very much for these very remarkable words. And now I would like to give the floor to His Excellency  Mr Imangali Tasmagambetov, Chairman of the National Commission of Kazakhstan to UNESCO.
(56.1) Mr Tasmagambetov (Kazakhstan) (translation from the Russian):   Madam President, allow me first of all to congratulate you on your election to such a responsible position, and  express my confidence that under your leadership this session will be constructive and productive.
(56.2) Ladies and gentlemen, the General Conference is already meeting for the 36th time. Our action at each session  must become increasingly specific and results-oriented. As I already said at a recent UNESCO Executive Board session, the  first meeting of National Commissions for UNESCO of the Central Asian countries was held in early September of this year in  the capital of Kazakhstan. At the meeting, the tasks and priorities for developing regional mutual cooperation in all areas of the  Organization’s competence were discussed. The open discussions that took place shed light on both positive practices and a  range of problems, including in the field of learning and the protection of our common historical and cultural heritage, the  development of educational and scientific programmes and exchanges of information between the countries of the region. As  our experience has shown, such meetings enable the revelation not only of the potential of joint cooperation, but of concrete  steps to be taken to pool national efforts in the promotion of regional initiatives in line with UNESCO. In this sense, Kazakhstan  is contributing to the strengthening of cooperation between Turkic-language countries, including through the organization  TURKSOY, which is a UNESCO partner. We are planning to hold, next year, a meeting of National Commissions for UNESCO  of Turkic-language countries, thereby broadening the format and level of cooperation to achieve the goals and tasks shared by  UNESCO and TURKSOY.
(56.3) Distinguished delegates, of course, every country has its own vision and approaches, but we must be united in  adopting universal values. In order to achieve this goal, it is necessary to rely, firstly, on openness which must be informed by  our shared goals and tasks; secondly, openness which engenders understanding. In the broadest sense of the word this  means “talking the same language”, striving to acknowledge the distinctive culture of other peoples. And, thirdly, it is easiest to  raise the foundations of trust on openness and understanding, trust, which is sorely lacking in today’s world. Often, in many  cultural and educational issues, the meaning of policy is exaggerated and hypertrophied and this does not allow us to  overcome the barriers that exist or even to understand one another. In this context, Kazakhstan supports the right of Palestine  to safeguard its cultural heritage and to join UNESCO. Contemporary realities show that progress and development for  humanity are impossible without dialogue and cooperation based on trust and mutual respect.
56.4 Distinguished ladies and gentlemen, we stand today at a crucial turning-point in the history of the world, as the  relations between different peoples and cultures are becoming an increasingly significant dimension in building a new  humanism. In marking the tenth anniversary of the adoption of the UNESCO Universal Declaration on Cultural Diversity, the  Organization must continue to strengthen its activity in the field of promoting and preserving cultural diversity, which enriches  and shapes the development of humanity. In the framework of the International Year for the Rapprochement of Cultures, a  way out of the clash that is emerging between the challenges of globalization and countries’ striving to bolster their national
176  identity has taken shape. I believe that it is our common duty to make every effort to ensure that the positive experience and  achievements of the International Year are carried over to the next stages of the Organization’s action.
56.5 With this in mind, Kazakhstan has initiated a draft resolution on the proclamation of an international decade for the  rapprochement of cultures from 2013 to 2022. We thank the States that have co-sponsored the draft resolution. The very  concept of the “rapprochement of cultures” is universal and applicable across all UNESCO’s sectors of work. In our view, the  long-term concentration of efforts by the international community on contact between cultures and civilizations will give  impetus to the Organization’s action in all areas, and also underscores the all-embracing nature of culture, which must be seen  not as a separate branch of domestic policy but as the basis of all the vital activity of humanity. Thank you for your attention.
(57.1) The President:   Thank you very much, Mr Tasmagambetov.  (The President continues in English)
57.2  And I now have the honour to give the floor to Her Excellency Ms Shi Shuyun, the Ambassador and  Permanent Delegate of China to UNESCO, and I apologize that I cannot greet her in her native language. Madam Am- bassador, you have the floor.
(58.1) Ms Shi (China) (translation from the Chinese):   Mr President of the General Conference, Madam Chair of the Executive Board, Madam Director-General, ministers,  colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, before I start, please allow me to extend my warmest congratulations to Ms Katalin Bogyay  for her election as President of the General Conference. I would also like to thank Mr Hepburn and Ms Mitrofanova for the  important contributions they have made to the development of the Organization. In the second decade of the twenty-first  century, UNESCO has been faced with both opportunities for development and severe challenges. Under the shadow of the  financial crisis, the world economy is recovering at a slow pace and social development has been considerably impeded.  Around the world, the Organization sees scarcity in the resources available for its undertakings in its fields of competence.  This situation requires us to think together and make wise decisions, so that we can correctly address the present challenges  and difficulties, and seize opportunities for long-term development.
(58.2) Education, science and technology and culture are decisive factors for the long-term and sustained development of a  nation. For any nation, education serves as the foundation, science and technology play a key role and culture functions at the  core, and it is without doubt that these combined exercise a profound and long-term influence on the development of a nation.  Every country in the world has an urgent demand for the Organization, in the new situation, to plan for educational  development and intercultural dialogue in future and to provide development guidance and advice for developing countries,  especially African countries. We hope that the Organization will continue its efforts to advance education for all. In China now,  the implementation of the Outline of China’s National Plan for Medium- and Long-Term Education Reform and Development is  well under way, in order to promote equity in, and improve quality of, education, and ensure the achievement of the objective  of “basically modernizing education, bringing a learning society into shape, and turning China into a country rich in human  resources”. It is our hope, working together with all the countries of the world, to promote the all-round development of people  and make their life a better and more dignified one.
(58.3) In this vein, we hope to see a UNESCO that plays a leading role in global governance. China attaches great  importance to its cooperation with UNESCO. Not long before this session, China and the Organization jointly organized the  UNESCO-China-Africa University Leaders Meeting, gathering over 40 university presidents from China and Africa for an equal  exchange of experience and to explore the possibility of a tripartite plan of action for cooperation in higher education within the  strategic framework of Priority Africa. We would like to express our appreciation of, and support for, the Organization’s  innovative action. In May next year, UNESCO will hold the Third International Congress on Technical and Vocational  Education and Training in Shanghai. The Congress will be highly significant in setting a direction for technical and vocational  education in future and will facilitate its development in all countries. We sincerely invite all of you to visit Shanghai.
(58.4) The following two years will be of decisive importance for the development of UNESCO, which requires Member  States to seek common ground and make contributions to revitalizing the Organization. Now I would like to make the following  recommendations: firstly, enhance the role of laboratory of ideas. With rapid innovation and development in science and  technology and the increasing demands on the part of Member States, the function of laboratory of ideas remains of great  realistic as well as historical significance. UNESCO must keep producing forward-looking ideas and concepts and formulating  programmes for innovation. None of this can be done without exchanges of thoughts and wisdom, and only through this can  the Organization’s advantages be maintained. In this regard, we appreciate UNESCO’s efforts to integrate culture into its  development goals and support its initiatives for activities related to culture and development. Secondly, deepen reforms and  never stop innovating. Reform and innovation prove to be the foundation and prerequisites for the Organization’s revitalization  and reorientation. The Chinese delegation welcomes and supports the efforts that the Director-General has made for the  accomplishment of the above-mentioned goals. As a Chinese sage said, a wise man makes changes as time and  circumstances change. The Organization is now confronted with the disparities between its own capacity building, and the  increasing demands of the Member States. The fundamental solution to this is to lose no time in furthering reforms and  innovation and at the same time to focus attention on work to encourage Member States to find their own points of interest in  the Organization’s programmes. China lays great emphasis on field reforms by the Organization and hopes that such reforms  can unfold in a streamlining, efficient and step-by-step manner and through consultation and cooperation with the National  Commissions of Member States. China supports the first-stage reforms in Africa and sincerely wishes them every success.
(58.5) Thirdly, further strengthen work in the field of youth. The Youth Forum, which has just concluded, has further  advanced the formulation and implementation of the Organization’s sectoral programmes. China welcomes the Organization  integrating young people into its work priorities. The undertaking of UNESCO, essentially, is one of and for young people. We  propose that UNESCO formulate flagship programmes suited to the particularities of young people and advance intercultural  dialogue and humanist exchanges, in order to transform the Organization into a more dynamic institution that young people  love and are keen to join.
(58.6) Ladies and gentlemen, this year marks the fortieth anniversary of China’s restoration to its lawful seat in UNESCO.  In the past 40 years, China has been fully, actively and deeply involved in the work of UNESCO; the cooperation between  China and the Organization has never stopped reaching new levels and the scope of our cooperation has been ever  broadening. China has made its due share of contributions to the development of UNESCO. I believe that, with the joint efforts  by its Member States, UNESCO will fulfil its historic mission and make further contributions to the maintenance of world peace  and stability. Thank you.
59. The President:    Xie xie, Madam Ambassador. And now I have the honour to give the floor to His Excellency Mr Yong-il Yun,  Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea. Mr Ambassador, you have  the floor.
60.1 M. Yun (République populaire démocratique de Corée) :   Madame la Présidente, Madame la Directrice générale, chers délégués, permettez-moi tout d’abord de féliciter  Mme Bogyay pour son élection à la présidence de la 36e session de la Conférence générale de l’UNESCO. Mes  félicitations vont également à Mme la Directrice générale, Irina Bokova, pour la merveilleuse façon dont elle a conduit les  travaux de l’UNESCO ces deux dernières années. Madame la Présidente, la 36e session de la Conférence générale de  l’UNESCO marque un tournant important pour ce qui est de dresser le bilan des activités du deuxième cycle de l’actuelle  Stratégie à moyen terme et de définir les mesures à prendre qui permettront de conclure avec succès le dernier cycle.  L’UNESCO a redoublé d’efforts pour atteindre les objectifs de sa Stratégie à moyen terme et certains succès ont été  enregistrés. Grâce à la poursuite fructueuse de la réforme de l’Organisation, les programmes et activités ont été mis en  œuvre dans leur ensemble, avec une qualité et une efficacité améliorées. Je peux affirmer que le prestige de l’UNESCO,  en tant qu’organisation intellectuelle, s’affirme de plus en plus, de même que son leadership dans ses domaines de  compétence pour la réalisation des Objectifs du Millénaire pour le développement et le règlement d’importants  problèmes internationaux.
59.2 Depuis son adhésion à l’UNESCO, la République populaire démocratique de Corée reste fidèle à l’Acte  constitutif et aux idéaux de l’Organisation, tout en participant de façon active à ses activités. Durant ces deux dernières  années, la coopération de mon pays avec l’Organisation s’est encore resserrée, notamment la coopération avec le Siège  et les unités hors Siège à Beijing et à Bangkok, dans les domaines de l’éducation, de la science et de la culture. La  coopération pour la conservation et la préservation des tombes murales de Koguryo, inscrites sur la Liste du patrimoine
178  mondial en 2004, se déroule avec succès et l’inscription des reliques historiques de Koryo, premier État unifié de la  Corée, est en bonne voie. Madame la Présidente, aujourd’hui, la logique de la force, déniant les principes de l’égalité et  de la souveraineté des États, se trouve plus que jamais exacerbée dans les relations internationales, et de sérieux défis  demeurent, empêchant les vœux de l’humanité pour la paix et la prospérité de se réaliser. Avec les actes de violation  des droits souverains et les conflits armés qui se produisent partout dans le monde, de nombreux civils innocents  perdent la vie et un grand nombre d’établissements éducatifs et scientifiques, ainsi que les richesses culturelles créées  par l’humanité, disparaissent en ruines. Aux termes de son Acte constitutif, l’UNESCO a pour mission de contribuer au  maintient de la paix par la coopération entre nations dans les domaines de l’éducation, de la science et de la culture, en  élevant les défenses de la paix dans l’esprit des hommes et en faisant en sorte que cette paix soit fondée sur la  solidarité intellectuelle. Ma délégation estime que le projet de programme et de budget 2012-2013 a été établi de sorte à  contribuer à l’accomplissement des objectifs de la Stratégie à moyen terme, à savoir la réalisation d’une éducation de  qualité pour tous, la promotion de la diversité culturelle et du dialogue interculturel, ainsi que l’édification de sociétés du  savoir inclusives grâce à l’information et à la communication.
59.3 L’UNESCO est appelée à concentrer ses efforts sur la réalisation des Objectifs du Millénaire pour le  développement et des objectifs de développement internationaux tels que les six objectifs de l’Éducation pour tous  définis à Dakar, le Plan d’action de la Décennie des Nations Unies pour l’alphabétisation, et le Plan international de mise  en œuvre de la Décennie des Nations Unies pour l’éducation au service du développement durable. Il est en particulier  important de poursuivre les projets de coopération pour les pays en développement et, surtout, les projets concernant  l’aide et le renforcement des capacités, ainsi que le transfert des connaissances scientifiques et des techniques de  pointe et la protection et la promotion du patrimoine culturel sous toutes ses formes. Le programme et le budget pour le  nouveau cycle doivent être établis et mis en œuvre de façon à éviter la dispersion et les procédures et processus  compliqués, tout en mettant l’accent sur les objectifs principaux et prioritaires.
59.4 Madame la Présidente, aujourd’hui la République populaire démocratique de Corée, sous la direction  clairvoyante du Grand Général Kim Jong-il, est en pleine marche en vue de l’édification d’un pays puissant et prospère.  Le Gouvernement, qui concentre tous ses efforts sur la construction économique afin de rehausser le niveau de vie du  peuple, a obtenu des succès inédits. Nos efforts pour la paix et le développement contribueront à la réalisation des  idéaux de l’UNESCO et apporteront par ailleurs une contribution aux efforts internationaux pour la réalisation des  Objectifs du Millénaire pour le développement et des objectifs de développement durable. Madame la Présidente,  l’indépendance, la paix et l’amitié sont les idéaux de la politique extérieure poursuivie invariablement par la République  populaire démocratique de Corée. Le Gouvernement entend renforcer davantage les relations de fraternité et de  coopération avec les États membres de l’UNESCO et fera tout son possible pour contribuer aux efforts internationaux en  vue du maintien de la paix et de la sécurité mondiale, ainsi qu’à la réalisation du développement et de la prospérité  commune de l’humanité. Je vous remercie de votre attention.
61. The President:    Merci beaucoup Monsieur l’Ambassadeur. I now have a little inclusion, dear ladies and gentlemen. That was our  last speaker for this morning, and I wish to thank all ministers and delegates for a rich and inspiring discussion and inter- esting speeches. As mentioned this morning we will now hear the report from the Chairperson of the Administrative  Commission. I invite my dear Alissandra Cummins to present us with her oral report on item 4.4 please. Madam Chair- person you have the floor.  Oral report by the Chairperson of the ADM Commission (Finance and administration) on item 4.4 “Adoption of  the provisional budget ceiling”  Rapport oral de la Présidente de la Commission ADM (Finances et administration) sur le point 4.4 « Adoption du  plafond budgétaire provisoire pour 2010-2011 »   Informe oral de la Presidenta de la Comisión ADM (Finanzas y administración) sobre el punto 4.4 “Aprobación  del tope presupuestario provisional”  Устный доклад Председателя Комиссии ADM (финансовые и административные вопросы) по пункту 4.4  «Утверждение предварительного верхнего предельного уровня бюджета   "اعتماد الحد األقصى المؤقت للميزانية" ٤,٤التقرير الشفهي لرئيس اللجنة المالية واإلدارية عن البند    行政委员会 (财务与行政)主席关于项目 4.4“通过临时预算最高额”的口头报告
62. Ms Cummins (Barbados) (Chairperson of the ADM Commission – Finance and administration)   Merci Madame. Madam President, Madam representative of the Director-General, Excellencies, ladies and gen- tlemen, it is with great pleasure that I submit to you the recommendation of the Administrative Commission of the 36th  session of the General Conference on item 4.4 concerning the adoption of the provisional budget ceiling for 2012-2013,  which the General Conference entrusted to our Commission for examination. The adoption of this resolution permits the  Programme Commissions to examine the budget lines within their fields of competence. The Administrative Commission  took note of the debates on the preparation of the Draft Programme and Budget for the 2012-2013 biennium that were  held in the Executive Board during its 185th, 186th and 187th sessions. Twenty-two delegates took the floor. While some  delegates continued to express their support for the revised zero real growth scenario – which is the Draft 36 C/5 in the  Blue Book –, it was acknowledged by the majority that the zero nominal growth scenario presented in document 36 C/5  Addendum – the Red Book – is more realistic in view of the economic crisis that many countries are confronted with at  this present time. Thus, most of the delegates who addressed this item recommended following the recommendation of  the Executive Board (187 EX/Decision 15) in adopting a zero nominal growth budget ceiling of $653 million. However,  some Member States expressed the hope that document 37 C/5 would not follow the same approach. Consequently,  after the examination of the draft resolution on the Draft Programme and Budget for 2012-2013 and the recommenda-
179  tions of the Executive Board contained in document 36 C/6 Addendum, the Administrative Commission recommends that  the plenary approve a budget ceiling of $653 million for the biennium 2012-2013. Madam President, I herewith submit  this proposal to the plenary for approval. Thank you for your attention.
63.1 The President:   Thank you very much Madam Chairperson, and I propose that we take note of the recommendations of the  Administrative Commission. Are there any objections? I see none, so this is adopted.
63.2 We have come to the end of our meeting. I wish to thank again the delegations who took the floor for their re- marks and suggestions and I wish to thank them for being excellent listeners too, taking note of the good examples and  best practices we heard today, and think about how they can be replicated, maybe in their countries. The plenary will  start this afternoon at 3 o’clock sharp, and I wish you a pleasant lunch.   The meeting rose at 1.30 p.m.  La séance est levée à 13 h 30   Se levanta la sesión a las 13.30  Заседание закрывается в 13.30  الظهربعد  ١,٣٠رفعت اسلسة يف الساعة    会议于 13 时 30 分结束