1. The President:   Your Excellencies, ladies and gentlemen, dear friends, I am very happy to welcome you. Good morning to  everybody and I declare open the ninth plenary session of the General Conference. Today, we will continue with the  national statements and, towards the end of the session, we will hear reports from the Credentials Committee and from  the Administrative Commission. Since we have a full schedule, as usual, and a very interesting list of speakers, I propose  we start immediately with our work. Ladies and gentlemen, I am very happy to welcome the Minister of Foreign Affairs of  Armenia, His Excellency Mr Edward Nalbandian. Sir, the floor is yours.
2.1 M. Nalbandian (Arménie) :   Madame la Présidente, Excellences, Mesdames et Messieurs, je voudrais tout d’abord féliciter cordialement  Mme Katalin Bogyay pour son élection en tant que Présidente de la Conférence générale de l’UNESCO et lui souhaiter  plein succès dans l’exercice de ses fonctions. Dès le premier jour de son adhésion à l’UNESCO, l’Arménie, en tant que  membre actif de l’Organisation, a soutenu pleinement toutes les initiatives de l’UNESCO dans les domaines de  l’éducation, de la science et de la culture. En Arménie, nous avons également bénéficié de l’appui consultatif, de  l’expertise et de l’assistance technique de l’Organisation. L’UNESCO accorde une importance particulière à la  participation de la jeunesse à la coopération internationale ainsi qu’aux programmes visant à promouvoir la paix et la  stabilité. Nous partageons entièrement cette approche et sommes convaincus que le réseau rénové des écoles  associées de l’UNESCO en Arménie constituera une base solide pour en assurer la promotion. Le succès des deux  projets actuellement menés dans ces écoles, « L’UNESCO modèle » et « Connaissance des pays et des cultures »,  nous en donne la certitude.
2.2 L’Arménie appuie l’UNESCO dans ses efforts en vue de la réalisation des objectifs de la Décennie des Nations  Unies pour l’éducation au service du développement durable, car elle est profondément convaincue de l’importance  d’une telle éducation dans le monde d’aujourd’hui. Je suis persuadé que la Chaire UNESCO « Éducation pour le  développement durable », qui vient d’être fondée en Arménie, apportera une précieuse contribution dans ce domaine,  notamment en ce qui concerne l’information du public et la sensibilisation de la société aux problèmes de  l’environnement.  (L’orateur poursuit en anglais)
2.3 Madam President, Armenia is a country rich with cultural monuments dating back to the fourth millennium BC.  There are some 33,000 historical and cultural monuments in Armenia under state protection, which are included in the  State Register of National Heritage. For centuries, the Armenian people have created numerous and diverse cultural  monuments most of which, due to known historical events, are now situated outside the Republic of Armenia. Our  neighbours have displayed different approaches towards the preservation of Armenian historical heritage. We have good  cooperation with the Islamic Republic of Iran, which takes proper care of the Armenian monuments situated in its territory.  This is proved by the inscription of the St Thaddeus and St Stepanos monasteries and the Chapel of Dzordzor on the  World Heritage List, presented by the Islamic Republic of Iran. In Yerevan, an eighteenth-century mosque has been  restored, through the joint efforts of Armenian and Iranian specialists. In this context we have also seen the start of  promising cooperation with our neighbour, Georgia.
2.4 Unfortunately, this positive experience is not reciprocated by our other neighbours. As a result of the policy of  destruction of Armenian historical heritage, thousands of cultural monuments that were of universal value have been lost  forever. In an era when the protection and promotion of human rights are considered to be fundamental principles,  damaging or destroying cultural or religious memory intentionally, consistently and repeatedly must be strongly  condemned in order to prevent any future possible repetition of past mistakes. Last year, Armenian cross-stones art  (Khachkars) was inscribed on UNESCO’s Representative List of the Intangible Cultural Heritage of Humanity. This year,  we were glad to exhibit the marvellous art of these Armenian Khachkars at an exhibition that was held at the UNESCO  Headquarters. Unfortunately, thousands of these cross-stones in the medieval cemetery of Nakhijevan were completely  destroyed over the course of a few years under the instructions and the watchful eye of Azerbaijan’s leadership, turning  this area into military ground. Such destruction of delicately carved cross-stones, created by the Armenian masters  during the Middle Ages, is a manifestation of blind hatred towards other peoples’ cultures. The resolution of the 16th  General Assembly of the International Council of Monuments and Sites (ICOMOS) states with regards to this vandalism  that regretfully “this heritage that once enjoyed its worthy place among the treasures of the world heritage can no longer  be transmitted today to future generations”.
2.5 Madam President, next year will mark the 500th anniversary of Armenian book printing. This anniversary  coincides with the proclamation of Yerevan by UNESCO as the World Book Capital 2012. On these occasions a number  of special events will be organized and we look forward to the active participation of UNESCO Member States in these  events. Thank you.
(4.1) Mr Baccouche (Tunisia) (translation from the Arabic):   Madam President of the General Conference, Madam Chair of the Executive Board, Madam Director-General, ladies  and gentlemen, I am pleased to begin my statement by offering warm congratulations to the President of the General  Conference, wishing her every success in her task. I am also pleased to convey my sincere thanks to the Chair of the  Executive Board and her colleagues the Members of the Board for their sterling efforts to ensure that UNESCO remains true to  its lofty mission to make the Organization a reference and a beacon in a world which is being buffeted by the revolutions of  peoples seeking dignity and justice.
(4.2) I am bound to express sincere appreciation to Ms Irina Bokova, the Director-General of UNESCO, for the wisdom  she has demonstrated in leading the Organization in this delicate moment so full of challenges in the life of the international  community, in order to renovate the structures of the Organization and to rationalize its performance. Allow me to take this  opportunity to convey to you the thanks of the Government and people of Tunisia for your interest in and active support for the  Tunisian revolution in order to achieve a democratic transition under optimum conditions. The symposia, training courses and  expert missions that have been undertaken in cooperation with UNESCO since the January 2011 revolution paved the way for  the success last Sunday of the first elections since Tunisian independence to be characterized by pluralism and transparency,  in accordance with international standards.
(4.3) Excellencies, ladies and gentlemen, this General Conference is being held at a time when the world is undergoing  acute crises which have erupted following an accumulation of economic, financial, social, nutritional and environmental  imbalances. Faced with this complex situation, we have no option but to seek to meet the challenges and to continue to strive
226  to achieve the Millennium Development Goals (MDGs), focusing on the aspect of particular concern to UNESCO, in other  words the cultural aspect of development and the concomitant need to ensure the cultural rights of individuals and peoples.
(4.4) Excellencies, ladies and gentlemen, while, ever since independence, Tunisia has bet on education and devoted a  large part of its resources to that end, the revolution brought to light defects which we have had to correct, taking the  necessary variables into account. We hastened to ensure that the new school year got off to the best possible start with the  reforms, and first and foremost that of restoring consideration, fairness, and respect for their rights to teaching staff. We also  sought to devise guidelines to ensure that the defects of the past were avoided and to achieve what Tunisia had undertaken to  do to attain quality education for all in the various streams and levels, and to enable the educational process to go beyond the  mere transfer of knowledge to a veritable practice within the framework of the school and its cultural, economic and social  environment. We are fully aware that what UNESCO educational plans and programmes offer is conducive to strengthening  our optimism by achieving these strategic goals.
(4.5) With regard to the natural sciences, we value and support UNESCO’s programmes aimed at promoting scientific  research and narrowing the knowledge gap between countries, and devising best practices in order to help Member States to  consolidate the link between the acquisition and the sharing of scientific knowledge and linking it to the requirements of  sustainable development.
(4.6) In the field of the social and human sciences, in which UNESCO excels, we call for support for the programme  attempting to deepen understanding of the economic and social impacts of the accelerating economic and social  transformations. We also call upon the Organization, as part of its mission to “construct the defences of peace in the minds of  mind,” to strengthen its contribution to supporting the democratic course and disseminating a culture of human rights, gender  equality, and dialogue among peoples and cultures. In this connection, Tunisia recalls the determined measures it took  following the January 2011 revolution to protect its cultural heritage, and its full commitment to the basic principles enshrined  in the Organization’s Constitution and in the international conventions it has ratified. On these foundations, we support the  focus of the Organization’s programmes on the crucial role played by culture in development, and the dissemination of the  principles which strengthen the various forms of freedom of thought, expression, creativity and acculturation.
(4.7) One cannot speak of information and communication technologies without noting the central role they played in the  Tunisian revolution. Young people harnessed these technologies to express their revolution against the deteriorating  conditions in the country. Furthermore, the freedom to obtain and circulate information is a fundamental demand of this  revolution. That is why the transitional government took the initiative of working to achieve that demand by abolishing the  censorship institutions and establishing an independent national body to reform the system of information and communication.
(4.8) Excellencies, ladies and gentlemen, I am bound at this juncture to express Tunisia’s full support for the aspirations of  the Palestinian people to build its own sovereign State and to support its legitimate request to join UNESCO, in the hope that  this may help to support its educational system and protect its cultural heritage. Finally, I must reiterate Tunisia’s commitment  to the principles and noble mission of UNESCO, and its full readiness to serve international intellectual cooperation within the  framework of the Organization’s initiatives to build a human society which is capable of achieving peace based “upon the  intellectual and moral solidarity of mankind”. Peace be upon you.
(6.1) Mr Al-Melaifi (Kuwait) (translation from the Arabic):   In the name of God, the Merciful, the Clement, Your Excellency Madam President of the General Conference, Your  Excellency Madam Chair of the Executive Board, Your Excellency Madam Director-General of UNESCO, Your Excellencies  heads and members of delegations, please accept my warmest greetings. I am pleased, on behalf of the State of Kuwait, to  offer congratulations to Her Excellency Madam President of the General Conference on her selection for that task, and to wish  her every success. I hope that the selection of the head of the Kuwaiti delegation as Vice-President will be of assistance to her  and help her to perform her task successfully. Thanks go to the previous President of the General Conference for his  outstanding efforts during his term of office. I also offer sincere appreciation for the efforts of the Director-General of UNESCO,  Ms Irina Bokova and all her colleagues in the various sectors of the Organization and its programmes of work to achieve the  objectives of the Organization and consolidate its humanitarian values.
(6.2) Excellencies, ladies and gentlemen, over the past years, those who have preceded us have faced great challenges  to preserve the dignity of human beings and to seek the wellbeing of peoples. UNESCO has always enjoyed the confidence of  the world seeking development in the cultural, social, economic and scientific fields in view of its humanitarian and non-political  nature. Today, we live a new world in which we face even greater challenges in seeking the same requirements in the light of  new and accelerating variables bringing with them greater difficulties and more and constantly renewed obstacles with  continued surprises which make the future even cloudier and give us enormous responsibilities for the current and future  generations.
(6.3) Given that UNESCO is the house of ideas and the rostrum of freedoms, constantly striving to ensure that human  beings, whatever their race or creed, are blessed with freedom and dignity, we need, as a result of our adherence to Islam and  our feeling of humanity, to support UNESCO’s message and its activities, especially those concerned with upholding peace,  human rights and the dignity of individuals. As we look forward to the sessions of this General Conference defining the means  whereby UNESCO can continue to enhance its contributions to achieving the internationally agreed development goals,  including the goals to be achieved by 2015 and the related development programme.
(6.4) Excellencies, ladies and gentlemen, Kuwait, which enjoys a large measure of democracy and freedom, also has a  consensus of principle on the need to preserve human dignity and uphold human rights, in accordance with the basic  principles of UNESCO, which are part of the Kuwaiti conscience, which is convinced of the importance of achieving security  and meeting the requirements therefor. Kuwait still assumes its ethical responsibilities towards individuals, and is keen to  provide support and equipment, particularly in the field of education, which we deem to be the mainstay of efforts to eliminate  poverty and want, both of which threaten human dignity. Kuwait has provided 198 annual study grants to students from a  number of countries of various continents around the world. Through its educational programmes, Kuwait is keen to strengthen  the values of justice, equality, freedom of thought and religion, respect for the Other, and the rejection of fanaticism and  terrorism. Kuwait participates in the Associated Schools Project network (ASPnet) through 45 schools and two clubs. Kuwait  devotes great attention to the training and education of individuals, providing them with the latest expertise and skills, so that  they may become mainstays of sustainable development. It also endeavours to ensure that all individuals in society may  partake of the various branches of science in accordance with their educational abilities. Kuwait is moving ahead with a project  for the mainstreaming of students with learning disabilities together with their peers in general education schools. It has  opened a specialized school for those with learning disabilities in one of its educational zones, to be followed by other such  schools, to be supervised by the Center for Child Evaluation and Teaching (CCET). Kuwait has also established the Sabah al- Ahmad Center for Giftedness and Creativity (SACGC) in furtherance of gifted Kuwaitis in all fields.
(6.5) Kuwait is proud that it is among the foremost Arab countries with respect to gender equality in education and  reducing gaps between male and female students. Women in Kuwait have outstanding achievements to their names,  occupying the highest posts in the land, having become ministers and members of parliament, and having received the highest  international prizes in numerous domains. In the field of culture, the Kuwaiti Government has adopted a development plan  including the establishment of cultural centres and plans for an opera house in coming years, in the belief in the importance of  culture, in all its various aspects, for promoting the culture of peace. With regard to scientific research, the Kuwait Institute for  Scientific Research (KISR), which is a highly regarded scientific institution, promotes numerous programmes and projects  relating to natural industries and foodstuffs, foremost of which is a project on the rehabilitation of damaged environment in  Kuwait, in addition to a renewable energy programme comprising 25 research projects using wind and solar energy.
(6.6) Excellencies, ladies and gentlemen, allow me to state that we support all the efforts exerted by UNESCO to preserve  the historic urban landscape and to protect endangered languages, and we hope that efforts will be pooled to protect the  cultural heritage of the Palestinian people since we believe in the justness of the Palestinian cause and in the Palestinians’  right to enjoy a life of dignity, the same as all other peoples. In this connection, Kuwait supports the recommendation of the  Executive Board that Palestine should be granted full membership in UNESCO.
(6.7) Excellencies, ladies and gentlemen, in view of the pressing emergency needs, and the fact that the Organization’s  programmes for the 2012-2013 biennium will increase in magnitude despite the fact that the budgets allocated to them are
228  limited, we hope that the Member States will give preference to what has been achieved with respect to human dignity over  any other considerations, and that they will meet these urgent needs with additional financial support and pursue cooperation  among all partners. In conclusion, I salute you all and thank you for your attention. Peace and the mercy and blessings of God  be upon you.
(8.1) Mr Sahal (Sudan) (translation from the Arabic):   Madam President of the General Conference of UNESCO, Madam Chair of the Executive Board, Madam Director- General of UNESCO, Chairs of the commissions and committees of the General Conference, heads of delegations, ministers,  ambassadors, representatives of organizations and entities concerned with the work of UNESCO, opinion-shapers, UNESCO  staff, and all those filling this great hall, peace and the mercy and blessings of God be upon you. This place is big enough to  symbolize the whole Earth and to express its unity in diversity. We are all working in a single joint effort to contribute to  preserving peace and security by working for education, science and culture, the emblems of this venerable Organization. This  General Conference of ours is being held amidst a series of preparations and work by the two main organs of UNESCO with a  view to serving the final beneficiaries, people, on the basis of peace and sustainable development. Allow me to salute the  Director-General on the reforms she has undertaken in response to requests formulated at previous sessions, and also on the  intense consultations she has held in all fields of UNESCO’s work. The broad consultations embody the collective spirit and  the pre-eminence of the values of the intellect and objectivity and enrich the potential collective work.
(8.2) This General Conference, dear brothers and sisters, comes at the beginning of the second decade of the millennium,  an exceptional decade in view of the Medium-Term Strategy for 2014-2019. This decade, which we hope will see the birth of  the African educational, cultural and scientific organization, will become complete when we have gone over to the Medium- Term Strategy for the next period. Then the year 2020 will come and test the ability of all of us to work creatively, especially in  the light of the variety and divergence of our interests, which reflect the concerns of the emerging and developing States. This  is the result of the impact of the international financial system, and even food governance, climate warming, all of which greatly
229  affect what we do.
(8.3) Ladies and gentlemen, this General Conference will discuss great issues relating to this matter, including what you  are doing at this Conference, and that is preparing a draft universal declaration of ethical principles in relation to climate  change. Furthermore, this General Conference is being held on the tenth anniversary of the proclamation of World Science  Day for Peace and Development, celebrations of which are held on 10 November of every year, which in itself is a celebration.  UNESCO is involved in initiatives and programmes of work which it has itself drawn up, or which it has entrusted to the United  Nations at the international level, within the United Nations Development Assistance Framework (UNDAF), or at the national  level. The matter requires, despite memoranda of understanding with UNESCO and other United Nations agencies concerned,  greater firmness on the part of the countries concerned, especially when the new reform process gets under way with respect  to African or Arab countries, which should provide a database for extrabudgetary funds.
(8.4) Dear participants in the General Conference, the reality of education in Sudan affords opportunities for enrolment  and the upgrading of competence. Sudan is among the countries that have striven to boost literacy and provide adult  education for empowerment. This experience has taken the form of applying numerous methods to bridge the gap. Despite  UNESCO’s intense efforts in favour of its partners, the provision of education for all (EFA) is still far from being achieved.  Funding partners still do not focus on sustainable development programmes, and that is why we strongly support the  declaration made recently at Addis Ababa, which includes UNESCO’s priorities for action: innovation rather than harnessing  the sciences to use natural resources and renewable sources of energy. All that leads to greater responsibility being laid on  our shoulders. The time has come, ladies and gentlemen, to seek the means of a deep transformation aimed at consolidating  the foundations of societies whose development components are more equitable to the coming generations of young people  so as to enable them to lead efforts aimed at protecting the life of society and the culture of peace and non-violence.
(8.5) Dear participants in the General Conference, if we wish to consolidate and strengthen the values of justice and  develop cultural policies, we must promote such efforts. Sudan has enacted a law for the promotion and development of  languages, and has recently signed two important conventions on the diversity of cultural expressions and the preservation of  the intangible cultural heritage. We look forward to benefiting from this aspect of the Organization’s efforts. Allow me, dear  brothers and sisters, to focus, in this connection, on strengthening the information media of local communities in the field of  communication for access to free information, on closing the digital gap, on harnessing technology to enable communities to  gain access to the production of information, to their cultural heritage, to the digitization of their documentary heritage, and to  open their memory to others. In this regard, we have proposed a number of projects to create a suitable environment for  access to and sharing of knowledge.
(8.6) Dear participants in the General Conference, attaining international peace, achieving the common good and  corresponding rights, using human knowledge in building a just peace, and being determined to adhere fully to the values of  the Organization’s Constitution all compel us to uphold what is right and accept Palestine as a full member of UNESCO. At the  same time, I should like to offer sincere congratulations to our brethren in South Sudan on their admission to UNESCO. Finally,  on behalf of my country’s delegation, I should like to thank all institutions that UNESCO has helped by means of activities  funded from extrabudgetary sources. Thank you very much.
(10.1) Mr Alrashid (Syrian Arab Republic) (translation from the Arabic):   Madam Director-General of UNESCO, Madam President of the General Conference, heads and members of  delegations, ladies and gentlemen, I and my delegation are pleased to share with you in the work of the General Conference  of UNESCO at its 36th session and to express our appreciation of the broad horizons of cooperation in the various fields of  work and our support for the Organization and its Director-General, Ms Irina Bokova and her vision and practical measures of  reform. I appreciate the efforts of the UNESCO Secretariat, which has placed in our hands extremely important documents for  discussion. I also congratulate the President of the General Conference on her election and wish her every success in her task.
(10.2) Ladies and gentlemen, distinguished participants, building a human society which possesses the tools of scientific  thought and the ability to use modern technology in order to harness and conquer natural phenomena, and to adapt  intellectual visions to the service of such thought is a legitimate aspiration which our societies express and towards which they  strive earnestly. Here we stress the role of education as the best possible investment in the building of the future of humankind  and its intellectual, ethical and civilizational wellbeing. We in the Syrian Arab Republic keep abreast of developments and  remain open to Arab and international experience, with which we interact against the backdrop of strengthening the national  character by launching national educational projects to achieve these objectives in accordance with a set timetable and  programmes of action, beginning with national criteria for educational curricula, enhancing the qualifications of primary and  secondary school teachers, incorporating technology into education, sponsoring excellent and outstanding students, opening  the Early Childhood Development Regional Centre in Damascus in cooperation with UNESCO’s Regional Bureau for  Education in the Arab States in Beirut, addressing the problems of dropping out of school and illiteracy by means of  appropriate solutions, and developing education through boarding schools and itinerant schools, any many other types.
(10.3) Excellencies, heads of delegations, ladies and gentlemen, we believe that the results of the sessions of the  Executive Board in which we participated earnestly following the previous session of the General Conference, and in which we  stressed our support for the various stages of administrative reform and the adoption of a new human resources policy to  achieve UNESCO’s objectives, as expected by the Member States. We also supported the programmes on youth, the fight  against poverty, the education of women, and gender equality. We renew our commitment to and support for acceptance of  the request for Palestine to become a Member State of UNESCO even as the great international gatherings and organizations  have disappointed the struggle of the Palestinian people and its sacrifices for more than 63 years. The Israeli authorities are  still bent on destroying the educational and cultural institutions in the occupied Syrian Arab Golan and in Arab Palestine. This  became criminally and blatantly obvious for the international community through the continued expansion of the settlements  and the imposition of the ugliest kind of embargo on land and people of Gaza despite all the humanitarian and international  appeals. We also renew our commitment, within the framework of the Arab States group, to the five decisions relating to the  occupied Arab territories and the official recognition of the State of Palestine. We reiterate our positions in favour of the issues  of the Arab States group and the Group of 77 and China. We thank the World Heritage Committee (WHC) and the  International Council on Monuments and Sites (ICOMOS) for the efforts exerted to adopt a draft resolution to inscribe the 40  villages in the north of the Syrian Arab Republic on the World Heritage List as a natural and cultural site.
(10.4) Excellencies, heads of delegations and ladies and gentlemen participants in the General Conference, we in the  Syrian Arab Republic have begun true steps towards reform in order to advance our country in various integrated fields, on the  basis of a broad national dialogue with full participation by the public in order to face the conspiracies endeavouring to interfere  in our internal affairs and our sovereign decision-making according to a strategy which President Bashar al-Assad of the  Syrian Arab Republic has described as a comprehensive and integrated development strategy including a graded reform  programme. This expresses our national development vision for all areas of the life of society and areas of work therein, in  which the economic, social, scientific, cultural and other sectors all participate and contribute. Finally, we stress the importance  of our resolutions at this 36th session of the General Conference, and hope that they may have a substantial impact on the  course of the national project for educational development in our country, which benefits from pioneering global experience  with a view to advancing humankind and achieving a flourishing and brilliant future for our country and for all humankind.  Thank you all very much.
11. The President:   Thank you very much for your statement, Your Excellency. I would like to ask the Minister of External Relations  of Cameroon, His Excellency Mr Henri Eyebe Ayissi to take the floor.
12.1 M. Ayissi (Cameroun) :   Madame la Présidente de la Conférence générale, Madame la Directrice générale de l’UNESCO, Mesdames et  Messieurs les ministres, ambassadeurs et chefs de délégation, Mesdames et Messieurs les hauts responsables de  l’UNESCO, Mesdames et Messieurs, permettez-moi à titre liminaire de présenter à la suite des éminents orateurs qui  m’ont précédé à cette tribune mes chaleureuses félicitations à Mme Katalin Bogyay pour son élection comme Présidente  de cette 36e session de la Conférence générale de l’UNESCO. Je saisis également cette occasion pour remercier  M. Davidson Hepburn, Président sortant, pour le dévouement et l’abnégation dont il a fait preuve au cours de son  mandat.
12.2 Excellences, Mesdames et Messieurs, la présente session de la Conférence générale se situe dans un contexte  particulier, tant pour la vie de notre Organisation que pour ce qui est de la délégation du Cameroun. D’abord en ce qui  concerne l’UNESCO elle-même, parce que c’est la première de « l’ère Bokova ». En effet, élue en 2009, dans un  contexte mondial fort difficile, Mme Irina Bokova a injecté dès l’entame de son mandat une sorte de supplément d’âme,  un nouvel humanisme dans notre Organisation. Les effets positifs de cette nouvelle donne sont déjà perceptibles, tant au  niveau de la structuration de l’UNESCO qu’à celui de l’affectation des ressources budgétaires. Ensuite, cette session se  tient au lendemain de la réélection du Président Paul Biya à la magistrature suprême au Cameroun. Le climat de paix  dans lequel cette élection s’est déroulée et le programme baptisé « Programme des grandes réalisations », que le  Président s’est engagé à appliquer au cours de son mandat dans les domaines de compétence de l’UNESCO,  constituent une réponse à cet appel pour un nouvel humanisme. Enfin, cette session n’est pas seulement la première au
231  cours de laquelle l’élection aux différents organes sera basée sur le consensus et la rotation au sein des groupes  régionaux, elle est aussi celle qui va valider le nouveau dispositif hors Siège, qui dote l’Afrique de cinq bureaux  régionaux aux compétences et aux moyens plus élargis.
12.3 À ce sujet, le Gouvernement camerounais, par ma voix, saisit cette occasion pour exprimer sa gratitude à  l’UNESCO et remercier à la fois le sous-groupe Afrique centrale, le Groupe africain et, en perspective, le Conseil exécutif,  pour le choix porté sur Yaoundé, capitale du Cameroun, pressentie pour accueillir le futur Bureau régional de l’UNESCO  en Afrique centrale, sur la base de données objectives et d’un très large consensus. C’est aussi l’occasion pour moi de  réaffirmer que le Cameroun est constamment disposé à apporter son soutien à l’UNESCO, sous plusieurs formes, pour  permettre à ce Bureau de fonctionner de manière efficiente dans l’intérêt de l’ensemble des parties de notre sous-région.  La coopération entre l’UNESCO et le Cameroun n’a cessé au demeurant de se renforcer et de se diversifier au cours du  dernier exercice biennal.
12.4 En ce qui concerne l’éducation, le regain d’activité pour l’Éducation pour tous coïncide avec les objectifs du  Gouvernement camerounais. La Constitution de l’État du Cameroun consacre l’éducation comme une mission  fondamentale de l’État et une priorité nationale. Une stratégie sectorielle a d’ailleurs été élaborée et validée dans ce  domaine. En matière d’alphabétisation et d’éducation non formelle, une étude diagnostique a été lancée dans le  domaine des sciences sociales et humaines. Différents projets sont également en chantier dans le domaine de la culture.  L’Organisation appuie notamment le Cameroun dans la mise en œuvre de son plan d’aménagement de la réserve du  Dja. Dans le domaine de la communication, l’UNESCO aide le Cameroun à promouvoir l’accès universel à l’information  et au savoir, ainsi que le développement de la communication en milieu rural.
12.5 Madame la Directrice générale, la coopération entre l’UNESCO et le Cameroun s’est aussi enrichie depuis  quelques années, en particulier dans le domaine de la santé grâce au soutien apporté aux activités du Centre  international de référence Chantal Biya consacré à la lutte contre le VIH et le SIDA. Ce centre, dont la promotion est  assurée par la Première Dame du Cameroun, Ambassadrice de bonne volonté de l’UNESCO pour l’éducation inclusive,  mériterait selon nous, à la lumière des résultats obtenus et des espoirs légitimes qu’il suscite, d’être érigé en centre de  catégorie 2 placé sous l’égide de l’UNESCO. Le rôle que l’UNESCO a toujours joué dans la protection et la promotion  des droits de l’homme distingue cette Organisation des autres. Les positions univoques que prend l’UNESCO pour la  défense des droits de l’homme témoignent de sa foi profonde en l’humanité. Le Cameroun soutient cet engagement  irremplaçable de l’UNESCO et réaffirme sa détermination à consolider l’état de droit, la démocratie et la liberté  d’expression. Dans le domaine de la jeunesse, qui représente 60 % de sa population, le Cameroun, conscient des  enjeux que représente cette importante frange de la société, vient de porter à huit le nombre des universités d’État et de  densifier l’offre d’enseignement supérieur privé, ainsi que l’offre de formation professionnelle, afin de répondre  efficacement aux besoins croissants des jeunes en matière de formation et d’emploi.
12.6 Madame la Directrice générale, la place de choix que vous avez décidé de donner à l’Afrique, notamment dans  le cadre de la Priorité Afrique, comme en témoignent la hausse effective des montants alloués pour l’exercice biennal
2012-2013 ainsi que la mobilisation des ressources humaines observée ces derniers temps, nous honore et nous  stimule. Le Cameroun exprime le vœu que les crédits budgétaires votés pour l’Afrique soient effectivement dépensés en  Afrique, à travers des réalisations et des projets concrets. Nous voulons terminer cette déclaration du Cameroun en  réaffirmant et en renouvelant le soutien de notre Gouvernement à l’UNESCO, ainsi que sa volonté de concourir au  succès des réformes courageuses et porteuses actuellement menées par la Directrice générale. Je vous remercie.
13. The President:   Merci beaucoup Monsieur le Ministre. And now I would like now to give the floor to the Minister of Education and  Culture of Indonesia His Excellency Mr Mohammed Nuh.
14.1 Mr Nuh (Indonesia):    Ms Katalin Bogyay, President of the General Conference, Ms Irina Bokova, Director-General of UNESCO, Ms  Eleonora Mitrofanova, Chair of the UNESCO Executive Board, Excellencies, Ministers, ladies and gentlemen. As-salāmu  ‘alaikum wa-rah matu llāhi wa-barakātuh (Peace and the mercy and blessings of God be upon you). First of all, on behalf  of Government of the Republic of Indonesia, it is my honour to address this highly regarded gathering of the 36th session  of the UNESCO General Conference. Like previous speakers, I would like to congratulate Ms Katalin Bogyay on being  elected as the President of the 36th session of the UNESCO General Conference. Secondly, the Government of the  Republic of Indonesia would also like to extend its appreciation to Ms Irina Bokova for all her hard work in the two years  she has served as the Director-General of UNESCO.
14.2 Humankind has always been blessed with logical, aesthetic and ethical capabilities. Such capabilities compel us  to always seek to create better living standards through the development of our daily necessities. This development  should grow geometrically, even exponentially, considering that there are higher demands for the quantity involved and  the quality expected. We have learned from the past that development based only on our logical capabilities does not  necessarily create a better life. Living standards that measure the happiness of individuals must be multidimensional,  comprised of at least economic, social, and environmental dimensions. Madam President, as reflected in its national  policy, the Government of the Republic of Indonesia believes that education and culture are very important to ensure that  any development is both peaceful and sustainable. Through education and culture and with the help of communication  technology, we can encourage the spread of essential logical, ethical, and aesthetic thoughts and actions. In order to be  peaceful and sustainable, development must be evenly spread across all regions, and throughout the world, since  uneven development will cause an imbalance. The significance of education inclusivity is reflected in our policy to reach  the unreachable by any feasible means, since education is a human right and hence must be accessible to all citizens as  mandated by the Constitution of UNESCO. In that respect, the Government is taking the necessary steps to eliminate all
232  barriers to education, be they geographical, economic or social.
14.3 Madam President, UNESCO promotes diversity, and Indonesia continuously lives and sleeps at the heart of  diversity. Indonesia is the largest archipelago country in the world with more than 17,000 islands, home to more than 240  million inhabitants originating from more than 500 ethnic groups with more than 700 local spoken languages as well as  social and religious plurality. Mother Nature has endowed Indonesia with the world's greatest geo-diversity, biodiversity  and ethno-diversity. Madam President, Indonesia appreciates UNESCO’s efforts to protect cultural heritage, and adopted  the Convention for the Safeguarding of the Intangible Cultural Heritage in 2003 which stressed the equal dignity of  cultures. In Indonesia, UNESCO has recognized three world cultural heritage sites, four world natural heritage sites and  has inscribed three elements on the Representative List of the Intangible Cultural Heritage of Humanity, including the  most recent, the Angklung, a bamboo percussion instrument. In conjunction with this effort, Indonesia has been actively  participating as a member of the Intergovernmental Committee for the Safeguarding of the Intangible Cultural Heritage  and will be hosting the sixth session of the Committee next month on November 2011, in Bali. In 2012, we are planning  to organize the first World Culture Forum with the aim of exploring the role of culture around the world. We would like to  take this opportunity to invite all participants of this General Conference to this event. Thank you very much.
15. The President:   Thank you very much. And now I would like to ask the Minister of Education, Research, Youth and Sports of  Romania, His Excellency Mr Daniel Petru Funeriu to take the floor.
16.1 M. Funeriu (Roumanie) :   Madame la Présidente de la Conférence générale, Madame la Présidente du Conseil exécutif, Madame la  Directrice générale de l’UNESCO, Mesdames et Messieurs les chefs de délégations, Excellences, Mesdames et  Messieurs, il m’est particulièrement agréable aujourd’hui de prendre la parole devant cette haute assemblée, à  l’occasion de la 36e session de la Conférence générale de l’UNESCO, au moment où cette prestigieuse institution du  système des Nations Unies s’apprête à opérer de profondes mutations. Au nom du Gouvernement roumain, je voudrais  féliciter la Présidente de la Conférence générale pour son élection. Le Gouvernement de la Roumanie exprime son appui  aux priorités de l’UNESCO pour ce nouveau millénaire. Cela vaut tout particulièrement pour son mandat en matière de  développement du potentiel intellectuel de la communauté mondiale. Je souhaite également manifester notre appui aux  programmes internationaux et intergouvernementaux de l’UNESCO. La Roumanie tient tout particulièrement à souligner  l’importance de l’éducation et de la recherche en tant qu’instruments du développement et du dialogue à travers le  monde. De ce point de vue, je voudrais insister sur l’importance que le Gouvernement que je représente accorde au  développement du capital humain et à la croissance de la compétitivité par la formation initiale et continue.
16.2 Le Ministère que je représente est devenu le principal pilier dans l’application de la stratégie nationale  « Éducation et recherche pour la société du savoir ». La Roumanie dispose depuis le mois de février 2010 d’une  nouvelle loi concernant l’éducation qui vise l’instauration d’un système éducatif stable, équitable, efficace et pertinent.  Les points clés de cette nouvelle loi sont donc l’éducation du jeune enfant, la décentralisation et l’enseignement pré- universitaire, le renforcement de l’autonomie des écoles, l’introduction de programmes scolaires et universitaires centrés  sur le développement des compétences, l’assurance de la qualité et l’encouragement de l’excellence dans  l’enseignement supérieur, l’accent étant également mis sur l’apprentissage tout au long de la vie. L’application de cette  nouvelle loi soutiendra et renforcera la position de l’enseignement supérieur roumain dans l’espace européen et  stimulera le dialogue professionnel et scientifique international en amplifiant, à n’en pas douter, la contribution de la  Roumanie à la promotion des idéaux de l’UNESCO à l’échelle nationale et internationale.
16.3 Dans le domaine des sciences, l’UNESCO adopte une approche globale que la Roumanie soutient pleinement.  Faisant du développement durable sa priorité en matière scientifique, l’UNESCO a lancé il y a 40 ans le Programme sur  l’Homme et la biosphère. La Roumanie y contribue par un travail approfondi qui vise à promouvoir la biodiversité au  service des populations locales, ainsi que par ses nouvelles propositions qui vont dans le sens de la stratégie de  Séville pour les réserves de biosphère. Dans le même temps, nous soutenons les efforts que l’UNESCO déploie pour  amplifier la recherche sur le réchauffement climatique. Le travail interdisciplinaire, doublé d’un effort collectif de la  recherche dans les domaines des sciences sociales, de l’éthique des sciences et des technologies ainsi que de  l’environnement, permettront à notre Organisation de favoriser d’importantes avancées dans ce domaine. La Roumanie  contribue de manière considérable au programme de l’UNESCO en matière de sciences fondamentales et je souhaite ici  souligner l’étroite collaboration entre le Centre international de physique théorique de l’UNESCO, à Trieste, et l’ensemble  des instituts de physique de Bucarest, qui a débouché sur la proposition présentée par la Roumanie à cette session de  la Conférence générale concernant la création, à Bucarest, d’un centre international de formation et de recherche  avancées en physique, en tant que centre de catégorie 2  placé sous l’égide de l’UNESCO.
16.4 L’UNESCO a toujours été très dynamique en matière de culture. La constitution progressive des listes du  patrimoine mondial matériel et immatériel est l’un des résultats unanimement reconnus de son action et la Roumanie  prend une part active à ce processus. Le patrimoine historique et culturel commun de l’Europe centrale et orientale fait  partie intégrante de l’histoire et de la civilisation européennes. Nous sommes également en train d’amplifier notre action  en faveur des populations roms, en soulignant les valeurs traditionnelles de leur culture.
16.5 Excellences, Mesdames et Messieurs, la Roumanie est pleinement consciente du fait que l’UNESCO doit  aujourd’hui, tout comme les autres organismes du système des Nations Unies, mener à bien les réformes nécessaires  pour recouvrer sa force et son caractère universel. La situation mondiale, fortement marquée par la crise globale, donne  l’occasion de mener une réflexion en ce sens. Face à ce défi, il est fondamental de formuler correctement la Stratégie à  moyen terme et le Programme et budget. La Roumanie, en tant qu’État membre de l’Union européenne, est prête à  contribuer à l’accomplissement de ces tâches difficiles.
16.6 Mesdames et Messieurs, nous vivons de toute évidence des temps de grands changements. Comme cela a été  le cas par le passé, l’UNESCO se doit aujourd’hui d’être à nouveau un repère de stabilité pour la communauté  internationale. Plus encore, l’UNESCO est sans doute à même de jouer le rôle de gardien du temple des valeurs de  l’humanité. Le changement le plus marquant ces dernières années a probablement été le passage d’un monde bipolaire  à un monde multipolaire, sous l’effet inévitable de la globalisation. Dans cette dynamique de changement, nos peuples  cherchent de nouveaux repères. Certains considèrent même que nos peuples peuvent se retrouver, du fait de cette  mutation rapide, dans un véritable vide axiologique qui demande à être comblé par des valeurs saines faisant progresser  la paix. Quelles sont, Mesdames et Messieurs, les valeurs les plus sûres ? Quelles valeurs, Mesdames et Messieurs,  sont mieux à même d’unir nos peuples que les valeurs de la culture, de l’éducation et des sciences ? Ce sont là les  raisons pour lesquelles l’UNESCO peut et doit jouer un rôle de plus en plus important, que le Gouvernement de la  Roumanie soutient pleinement. Permettez-moi de soumettre à votre attention l’un des éléments qui se trouvent au cœur  de notre réflexion sur l’éducation et le développement durable. Pendant des siècles, nous avons transféré les ressources,  y compris les ressources humaines, là où se trouvait le savoir. N’est-il pas temps, Mesdames et Messieurs, de renverser  la vapeur et de commencer à partager davantage notre savoir et à transférer le savoir là où se trouvent les ressources,  au plus proche de ces ressources, qu’elles soient humaines ou naturelles. N’est-ce peut-être pas là la meilleure manière  d’accompagner cette transition, pas toujours facile, d’un monde bipolaire à un monde multipolaire ? Nous pensons que  c’est à travers le partage du savoir que nous pourrons au mieux atteindre les objectifs de notre Organisation. Je vous  remercie de votre attention.
17. The President:   Thank you very much, Your Excellency. And now I would like to give the floor to the Minister of Education of  Brunei Darussalam, His Excellency Mr Pehin Abu Bakar Apong. The floor is yours, Sir.
18.1 Mr Apong (Brunei Darussalam):   Your Excellency Madam President of the General Conference, Your Excellency Director-General of UNESCO,  Excellencies, distinguished delegates, ladies and gentlemen. As-salāmu ‘alaikum wa-rahmatu llāhi wa-barakātuh.  Bismillāh ir-rahmān ir-rahīm. (Peace and the mercy and blessings of God be upon you. In the name of God, the Merciful,  the Compassionate.)
18.2 It is indeed a great pleasure to be here with colleagues and friends from UNESCO Member States on this  auspicious occasion to represent the Government of Brunei Darussalam. As with many countries, education is a key  priority in Brunei Darussalam, and it can never be understated. And as we continually adapt to global changes, the  Government of Brunei Darussalam continues to embark on major educational reform to ensure that our standards and  targeted skills and knowledge remain relevant for the future. Our Twenty-First Century National Education System is  focused on injecting greater flexibility into education to suit a wide range of student learning needs and styles. This  educational development aims to accelerate the achievement of the Brunei Vision 2035 and to situate Brunei as a  developed country. The provision of quality universal primary education is of critical importance for all children in Brunei  Darussalam in shaping our future both economically and socially. The Government of Brunei Darussalam will  continuously strive to deliver quality education so that all children have the opportunity to become valued and  contributing members of society. Brunei Darussalam shares the view that all children should have access to education.  Provisions towards achieving this in Brunei Darussalam include: equal educational opportunities for a child to succeed  through a balanced and relevant curriculum; a conducive, child-centred learning environment; effective professional  development of teachers through continuous, regular in-service training; improved school facilities, increased educational  resources; increased specialist support, and improved administration and management of the education system in  schools.
18.3 Excellencies, ladies and gentlemen, technical and vocational education in Brunei Darussalam has shifted its  paradigm and is more focused to meet the development needs of the nation as it moves towards Brunei Vision 2035.  This places emphasis on a well-educated, highly-skilled society with a world-class education system that promotes  lifelong education. Under the new education system, a three-tier qualification system is implemented to meet the diverse  needs of students and to provide multiple pathways to higher education. Changes in the technical and vocational  curriculum will ensure that students are given a suitable learning timeframe to acquire in-depth knowledge and perform to  a high level of competency. With an increase in student numbers within the next few years the Government of Brunei  Darussalam continuously strives to upgrade the current infrastructure of our vocational and technical institutions such as  the establishment of a new polytechnic in 2012 and the construction of new technical and vocational education  institutions. This shows the very strong and firm commitment of the Government of Brunei Darussalam to realizing and  developing a high quality technical and vocational education system within the country.
18.4 Excellencies, ladies and gentlemen, one of the concerns of the Government of Brunei Darussalam is for our  children to acquire the necessary values and attitudes to cope with current and future challenges. Therefore, values  education, based on our national philosophy, has been a core subject in our school curriculum since independence with  the aim of developing a deeper understanding of citizenship, nationhood and cultural and religious identity. These  important values will facilitate our children’s overall growth and holistic development so that they may integrate well into  the community with purpose, respect and confidence. Brunei Darussalam is also embarking on Digital-Age Literacy  which serves as a crucial tool and essential skill for teaching and learning. By raising the levels of literacy we will be  enhancing the nation’s skills, developing a more responsive and stable economy and providing employment  opportunities for all. Brunei Darussalam strongly believes that early childhood care and education (ECCE) as well as  inclusive education are very important in a child’s development, which become a crucial education strategy and remains  a national priority of Brunei Vision 2035. As we near 2015, the target for us to achieve the education for all goals, we  continue to work earnestly to improve on and maintain our previous successes of 100% enrolment rate at primary level,
95% literacy rate for adults and 100% for youth, a very low dropout rate at the primary level and no gender disparity.
18.5 Excellencies, ladies and gentlemen, Brunei Darussalam fully supports UNESCO’s regular programme priorities  and projects and Participation Programme. I would like to take this opportunity to thank UNESCO for assisting Brunei  Darussalam in educational, scientific and cultural developments, either through financial contributions or the supply of  expertise and publications. Finally, I would like to conclude by wishing the Director-General of UNESCO and the  President all the best in guiding this Conference to a successful conclusion. Thank you Madam President.
19. The President:   Thank you very much Your Excellency. And now I would like to give the floor to the Minister of Education, Youth  and Sport of Cambodia, His Excellency Mr Sethy Im. The floor is yours, Sir.
20.1 M. Im (Cambodge) :   Madame la Présidente de la Conférence générale, Madame la Directrice générale de l’UNESCO, Excellences,  chers collègues, Mesdames et Messieurs, il m’est agréable de féliciter Mme la Directrice générale de l’UNESCO pour  son rapport, ainsi que pour le projet de programme et de budget soumis à notre examen, et d’évoquer les efforts  déployés par le Gouvernement royal du Cambodge pendant l’exercice biennal 2009-2011, sous la haute égide du  Premier Ministre Samdech Akka Moha Sena Padei Techo Hun Sen.
20.2 Dans le domaine de l’éducation, nous devons recruter 5 000 enseignants chaque année pour répondre aux  besoins éducatifs, avec une population scolaire de 3,5 millions, soit un quart de la population cambodgienne. Cet  immense effort pour le Cambodge traduit la volonté de notre Premier Ministre de considérer l’éducation comme un  domaine prioritaire. Malgré un taux de scolarisation en hausse dans l’enseignement primaire, atteignant désormais 95 %,  la transition entre le primaire et le secondaire reste encore à améliorer. Dans un pays en situation de post-conflit comme  le nôtre, la quête de valeurs et d’une éducation de base de qualité constitue un défi quotidien auquel nous souhaiterions  voir l’UNESCO s’associer plus étroitement, tout en gardant à l’esprit que ces efforts resteront vains s’ils ne portent pas  en amont sur la formation d’enseignants qualifiés et compétents. En outre, le Royaume du Cambodge, avec 30 % de sa  population âgée de 15 à 25 ans, doit faire face à l’arrivée de 700 jeunes par jour sur le marché du travail. Ce chiffre  représente un défi pour notre gouvernement et nous comptons sur l’aide de l’UNESCO pour renforcer la formation  professionnelle et technique des jeunes, afin que leurs capacités répondent aux nombreux besoins d’une économie en  pleine expansion. Le Gouvernement royal du Cambodge axe ses efforts sur l’éducation informelle, en coopération avec  l’UNESCO dans le cadre du Programme  CapEPT, et se réjouit à cet égard de l’intensification de programmes  d’alphabétisation nationaux efficaces proposée dans le Projet de programme et de budget (36 C/5).
20.3 Le Royaume du Cambodge peut s’enorgueillir d’avoir lutté efficacement contre l’épidémie de VIH/SIDA et a reçu  à ce titre une distinction de la part des Nations Unies lors de la cérémonie des Objectifs du Millénaire pour le  développement, en 2010, en reconnaissance de son engagement et des progrès réalisés en vue de la réalisation de  l'Objectif 6, et plus particulièrement pour avoir enrayé et inversé la propagation du VIH.
20.4 Dans le domaine de la culture, comme vous le savez, le Royaume du Cambodge connaît depuis une quinzaine  d’années, grâce à sa coopération étroite et fructueuse avec l’UNESCO, une renaissance sans précédent de ses arts  traditionnels, de ses industries créatives, ainsi que de la restauration et de la mise en valeur de son patrimoine,  démontrant ainsi que la culture constitue un atout majeur pour le développement durable du Cambodge. Fort de cette  expérience, le Gouvernement royal du Cambodge, toujours en partenariat avec l’UNESCO, nourrit l’ambitieux dessein  de se doter d’une politique culturelle nationale qui permette de préserver cette diversité et cette richesse culturelles  redécouvertes. Aussi, dans cet esprit, avons-nous déjà adopté un décret-loi sur les « trésors humains vivants » visant à  garantir la transmission des savoir-faire dans une société en pleine mutation. Par ailleurs, le Gouvernement royal du  Cambodge travaille activement, en collaboration avec l’UNESCO et d’autres acteurs concernés, à la restitution d’objets  d’art disparus. Par ailleurs, dans le cadre du programme de soutien aux industries créatives généreusement financé par  le Fonds PNUD/Espagne pour la réalisation des OMD, d’importants efforts ont été faits pour allier esprit entrepreneurial  et compétences artisanales parmi les populations rurales, tandis que des programmes culturels participatifs sont  élaborés et mis en œuvre au sein de centres culturels novateurs dédiés aux cultures minoritaires du Cambodge. Le  Comité international de coordination pour la sauvegarde et le développement du site historique d’Angkor, quant à lui,  demeure un forum de coopération internationale, actif et original, dont les fructueux travaux permettent depuis 18 ans de  maintenir ce que l’on peut désormais appeler « l’esprit d’Angkor », c’est-à-dire un équilibre entre sauvegarde du  patrimoine et développement durable, dans un site vivant du patrimoine mondial.
20.5 Enfin, dans le domaine de la communication, le temps me manque pour décrire l’ensemble des activités  menées en faveur de la liberté de la presse et de la formation des journalistes. Le Gouvernement royal du Cambodge  est heureux de vous annoncer la création du Comité national du Programme Mémoire du monde. Nous entrevoyons déjà  l’immense potentiel d’associer des éléments du Registre « Mémoire du monde », tels que le Musée du génocide de Tuol  Sleng, avec des sites du patrimoine mondial tels que Auschwitz-Birkenau et le Mémorial de la Paix d’Hiroshima, afin de  contribuer également à une réflexion internationale qui pourrait s’intituler « Mémoires pour la Paix ». Je vous remercie de  votre attention.
21. The President:   Merci beaucoup. I would like to ask the Minister of Community and Cultural Affairs of Palau, Her Excellency  Ms Faustina Rehuher-Marugg, to take the floor. Your Excellency, the floor is yours.
22.1 Ms Rehuher-Marugg (Palau):    Madam President of the 36th session of the General Conference, Madam Director-General of UNESCO, Madam  Chair of the Executive Board, distinguished guests, colleagues, ladies and gentlemen. At the outset I would like to  congratulate UNESCO for its great success advocating for gender equality and I trust that the barriers have been  reduced to allow women to take their place in the Organization. I wish to congratulate these three women for their
235  esteemed accomplishments and especially in gaining the trust of the Member States to lead UNESCO, the Executive  Board and the General Conference as you move forward in these challenging and trying times. This affirms Palau’s  vision to strengthen the role of women in developing States as we believe that they play a key role in the economic and  social development of smaller island States. For the past 17 years, Palau has held an annual gathering of women called  the Palau Women’s Conference to discuss new and emerging challenges facing women, men and children as well as  social changes in the community. In this era of globalization, information sharing is critical to ensure that our cultural  identity is strengthened as we tackle the issues of economic and sustainable development. With the guidance of  UNESCO, Palau has made many milestone achievements. Palau was one of the first countries to complete its education  for all action plan under the Dakar Framework for Action. Further to that plan, Palau was instrumental in chartering a  course for improving the quality of education through different platforms. These included continued development of  school administrators, advancing teacher education and mainstreaming school programmes to ensure success in higher  education. Similarly, new and innovative programmes have been developed to expand and enhance life skills education  as well as vocational and technical education. It is hoped that such programmes will embrace those who wish to pursue  goals outside of the normal school curricula. Palau shared its accomplishments with all of our partners in the Pacific in  the recently completed Pacific heads of education systems subregional consultation hosted by Palau just a few months  ago with more than 16 Member States participating. For that consultation, a regional review of what has been  accomplished in the Pacific subregion under the UNESCO education programme was completed and the way forward  was crafted for the next biennium. We hope it will be included in the formulation of the new Medium-Term Strategy  focusing on small island developing States (SIDS) particularly those in the Pacific.
22.2 Madam President, as a small island developing State, currently dependent on outside resources, sustainable  development is at the heart of every Palauan, including our leadership. For this reason, and for the pursuit of peace and  sustainable livelihood for our people, our President travelled half way around the globe to address the Leaders’ Forum  with its theme “How does UNESCO contribute to building a culture of peace and to sustainable development?”. It reflects  our commitment to strengthen our efforts to join UNESCO in contributing to peace in the region. At this year’s United  Nations General Assembly Palau signed seven conventions on human rights including the United Nations Convention on  the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination against Women (CEDAW) and the Convention on the Rights of Persons  with Disabilities, and our country has taken steps to combat human trafficking and to stop the trafficking of cultural  artefacts.
22.3 Madam President, at the heart of the development platform is education and Palau has invited civil societies,  non-governmental organizations (NGOs), regional agencies and local governments to join in its Partnerships for  Education. Small island developing States are geographically and culturally remote from major continents and developed  countries. As a result we have been struck by a series of social challenges, especially issues of immigration and  emigration. Many of our youth and expert professionals have moved to live in different countries in pursuit of grander  lifestyles. With a small population, Palau is home to over 30 diverse cultures and ethnic groups from all over the world.  Being a small island State, cultures are influencing our youth and children so we applaud UNESCO’s effort in the social  and human sciences, in the area of youth meetings and e-dialogue through Voices of Youth.
22.4 Madam President, UNESCO’s partnership with other organizations such as the Secretariat of the Pacific  Community (SPC) to bring young people together to address challenges important to them and to allow them to have a  voice in the social and economic development of the small island communities have been very helpful, and Palau is  doing an ongoing project on the progress and cultural mapping, planning and policy. Speaking not only for Palau but for  all Member States in our region, climate change is causing problems such as sea-level rise. Madam President, I have  one minute left and I would like to inform you that Palau has just ratified the Convention for the Safeguarding of the  Intangible Cultural Heritage and I would like to share with you a chant that says that “we do not own the earth, it is the  rocks, the water and the core of the earth”. So, here it goes:   Obil ngesul iang  Ke du el mirrael e mei.  Me ng ka el beluad a ikang  Me a ka el chetemed a ikang.  Ng di bad me a ralm me a bad ngeasek a  Merreder er a chutem iang.
22.5 Thank you very much ladies and gentlemen.
23. The President:   Bravo. Thank you so much. And I would like now to give the floor to the Minister of Education of Afghanistan, His  Excellency Mr Farooq Wardak.
24.1 Mr Wardak (Afghanistan):    Bismillāh ir-rahmān ir-rahīm (In the name of God, the Merciful, the Compassionate). Your Excellency Madam  President, Your Excellency Madam Director-General, Excellencies, distinguished delegates, my fellow global citizens.  As-salāmu ‘alaikum wa-rahmatu llāhi wa-barakātuh (Peace and the mercy and blessings of God be upon you).
24.2 It is indeed a great honour for me to address this august assembly of the UNESCO General Conference,  especially at a time when the entire world is looking at us with  hope and expectation. It is equally my honour to represent  the aspirations of millions of children and youth from a country which is partly in war and partly in post-war, a country that  over the past ten years, despite daunting challenges, has witnessed unprecedented progress and continues to rely  heavily on education as the most powerful means of achieving peace and prosperity. Every day over eight million  children, 39% girls, leave their homes to attend school in the hope of a better future, when ten years ago our disabled
236  and dysfunctional education system was providing poor quality education services to only one million children. What  makes me especially proud is Afghanistan’s membership in the Global Partnership for Education (previously called Fast- Track Initiative) in March of this year. Through this partnership, we will increase our focus on the most deprived children,  especially girls, in the most remote and least secure parts of our country. Instead of waiting for security to come, we  decided to invest more in education as a means of achieving stability. I would also like to mention our progress in  transitioning responsibilities from our international partners to Afghan institutions, which will help us in further aligning  available resources on our national priorities of making education accessible to all. In this regard, I am especially thankful  to UNESCO-Afghanistan for facilitating the transition of its literacy programme to my Ministry. On the cultural front,  compared to the one State radio and a couple of newspapers available in 2001, today Afghanistan has over 4,000 media  outlets, most of which are owned by private citizens. Most significant of all is the access of 17 million Afghans, 52% of  our population, to mobile phones. We have come a long way in safeguarding our cultural heritage through reclamation,  restoration and preservation. We have also taken concrete steps in promoting a culture of peace through education by  incorporating non-violence, reconciliation, conflict resolution and psycho-social well-being into our curricula and  textbooks. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to take this opportunity to acknowledge with gratitude the fact that we  would not have been able to come this far without the generous support of our friends in the international community.
24.3 Excellencies, the achievements of the past ten years, however, have not made us lose sight of the enormous  challenges still ahead of us: 38% of our school-age children and youth, the majority of them girls, do not have access to  education. This constitutes 6.6% of the entire world’s out-of-school children. Over nine million adults, 30% of our  population, are illiterate and lack employable skills; around 50% of the existing schools do not have buildings; only 2% of  our grade-nine graduates find their ways to technical schools. Finally, we have learned a few lessons that would  determine our way forward: social mobilization and community empowerment is at the heart of our strategic focus of  strengthening and reinforcing multiple pathways to take us to our ultimate goal of education for all. It has been through  the communities that we persuaded some of the insurgents to make peace with education and allow us to reopen 500 of  our closed schools in the insecure areas. It has been through the communities that we have succeeded in establishing  single classroom community-based schools for one million children, 60% of them girls in hard-to-reach corners of our  country. It is through the communities that we will experiment with innovative initiatives that will connect mosque-based  and home-based schooling with formal education system. It is through the communities that we will relocate female  teachers from urban centres to educate girls in disenfranchised areas that lack female teachers of their own.
24.5 Excellencies, I am glad to join Statesmen, ministers, advocates and others, to stand firm on demanding  substantial reductions in military expenditure and a significant increase in investment in education. This is an area where  UNESCO can play a key role; and we will remain your dedicated partner. As a nation which has experienced first-hand  how vulnerable a less-educated population is to exploitation, I call on all of you to invest more in education today to  prevent costly and debilitating human calamities tomorrow. It is not the shortage of war machines that the world is  suffering from, but it is the lack of equitable access to a useful and meaningful education, which is making us vulnerable  to violence and destruction. Let me conclude by assuring you, Excellencies, that we are fully committed to the principle  that guided the creation of UNESCO, we will strongly support its objectives, we will remain your loyal partners in  promoting the culture of peace and sustainable development, and we will continue to take an active part in achieving the  Organization’s noble mission. Thank you very much.
25. The President:   Thank you very much, Your Excellency. And now I would like to give the floor to the Minister of Education,  Culture, Young and Sports of Sint Maarten, Her Excellency Ms Rhoda Arrindell.
26.1 Ms Arrindell (Sint Maarten):    Madam President, Madam Chair of the Executive Board, Honourable Director-General, Excellencies, delegates,  ladies and gentlemen. It is, indeed, a privilege for me to address this august body and an honour to have been invited  into your fold. This honour comes at a most propitious time for Sint Maarten, having just marked the first anniversary of  our new constitutional status within the Kingdom of the Netherlands. It is by virtue of this new status that we are here  today, and my Government intends to take full advantage of this opportunity to the benefit our nation and our people. Sint  Maarten, as you may know, is an island of 37 square miles divided between the Republic of France and the Kingdom of  the Netherlands. That political divide is, however, artificial in a sense because there are no physical borders in the minds  of our people, for whom freedom of movement of goods, services and, persons has existed since the very beginning of  our history. Madam President, size is really a relative concept. Our attitude to size is summed up in these lines by one of  our poets: “If 37 square miles of land/ seems like a grain of sand/In your hand/Drop it in your eye and/Come again”. Our  size has not prevented us from facing the same challenges as countries a thousand times larger than we are, yet, our  dreams are as big as those of the biggest nations in the world.
26.2 Education is the key to the success of the new nation we are trying to build on the foundation of a virile, resilient,  and dynamic culture. In his acceptance speech at International Literacy Day in 2009, the representative of the Pashai  people of Afghanistan said that his people were “determined that their heritage, language, and culture will not die.” We,  on Sint Maarten, are also determined that our heritage, language, and culture will not die. We have similarly recognized  how language impacts learning and have consequently made English the language of instruction in our schools. In fact,  the language issue on Sint Maarten has been at the heart of our education reform process. We are a multi-lingual society,  but despite our being a half-Dutch, half-French condominium, English is the mother tongue of our people, while Spanish  is the second most spoken language. Cognizant of the role language plays in our education system, as well as in the  development of our nation, my Government is pursuing a policy of linguistic versatility, which seeks to make each student  who completes secondary education proficient in at least three to four languages: English, Dutch, French, and Spanish.  This, we believe, is the way forward for the new Caribbean man and woman.
26.3 In line with UNESCO’s Education for All programme, I am pleased to report, Madam President, that compulsory  education is in its third phase of implementation in Sint Maarten. First implemented in 2008, it requires that our children  be schooled between the ages of 4 and 18. The implementation of compulsory education has been complicated by the  issue of undocumented immigrants. However, my Government has separated the two issues thus facilitating the  integration of children of undocumented immigrants into our educational system. Compulsory education in Sint Maarten,  however, is still a work in progress, and we will be calling on UNESCO to assist us where necessary so that, hopefully,  we will soon be able to report that the process has been completed. Another issue we are faced with in our education  system is that of gender parity, not only in the classroom, but also in front of the classroom. As with students, there is a  huge disparity between teachers, as female teachers greatly outnumber their male colleagues. We are actively seeking  ways to balance this equation.
26.4 Madam President, accurate, reliable, and timely education statistics are essential for our education system to  achieve its goals of using our limited material resources optimally. We have, therefore, developed an “Education Digest”  as a first step in our effort to efficiently and effectively deal with the challenges we face in the twenty-first century. Culture,  Madam President, is inseparable from identity, and identity is not only about who we are, but also about who we want to  be. Sint Maarteners are a resilient people who know that true peace is not only the absence of war, but rather an  indispensable condition for all of us, big and small, rich and poor, to pursue happiness and live in harmony with each  other and also with our environment. That peace starts and must grow and flourish in the minds of every man and  woman, indeed of every child and teenager. If there is a message a small Caribbean island like Sint Maarten can offer  the world, it is that we must focus on what unites us as a human family rather than on what divides us. There is no other  way to create a culture of peace. “Culture,” as Sint Maarten’s foremost poet sings, “is work” and work is what we are here  to do. We hope to benefit from the experience and expertise of UNESCO especially in the areas of the tangible and  intangible heritage.
26.5 Madam President, I did not come here to present a shopping list. In fact, Sint Maarten believes its associate  membership of this Organization will enable it to make a meaningful contribution in areas such as language and  publishing to the rest of the Caribbean region, and perhaps even beyond, as our destiny calls us to do. We are, therefore,  eagerly looking forward to a mutually beneficial relationship. May I end, Madam President, by congratulating you on your  election and wishing you continued wisdom and strength to guide this Organization successfully. I also wish to thank all  Members for the unanimous support given to Sint Maarten’s admission to this global body. We pledge to uphold its ideals  and to work diligently with its institutions to ensure that, together, we can achieve the goal of universal solidarity based  on “the wide diffusion of culture, and the education of humanity for justice and liberty and peace which are indispensable  to the dignity of man and constitute a sacred duty which all the nations must fulfil in a spirit of mutual assistance,” as the  UNESCO Constitution states. I thank you.  Ms Sánchez Bello (Bolivarian Republic of Venezuela) takes the Chair.
(27) The President (translation from the Spanish):   We now have the pleasure of calling His Excellency Mr Dennis Alonzo, the Minister of Education of Guatemala, to  take the floor.
(28.1) Mr Alonzo (Guatemala) (translation from the Spanish):    Madam President of the General Conference, Madam Chair of the Executive Board, Madam Director-General, dear  colleagues, 66 years after the creation of the United Nations system and UNESCO, the fundamental principles of the  Organization have become particularly meaningful in the context of the current, complex global crisis. We see the  disintegration of myths and systems, so far removed from inherent human values and principles, that they have lost all  legitimacy and ubiquity. The principle stating that UNESCO was founded to build peace in the minds of men through education,  science and culture, today regains its full pertinence in the face of the various forms of conflict and changes in contemporary  societies. For this reason, UNESCO’s ethical and moral framework, assigned to it from the beginning, must not weaken in the  face of new challenges brought about by globalization, which presents human progress as wholly dependent on the market.  We applaud the Director-General’s vision of a ‘new humanism’.
(28.2) UNESCO’s Constitution states that “a peace based exclusively upon the political and economic arrangements of  governments would not be a peace which could secure the unanimous, lasting and sincere support of the peoples of the world,  and that the peace must therefore be founded, if it is not to fail, upon the intellectual and moral solidarity of mankind”. Sixty-six  years later, this mandate has been ratified in the 2005 World Summit on the Millennium Development Goals, by reaffirming the  Programme of Action on a Culture of Peace, the Global Agenda for Dialogue among Civilizations and the Alliance of  Civilizations. From Guatemala’s experience, we can say that we have gone through a process of achieving, sustaining and  building peace. As a country in a post-conflict situation, our challenge is to continuously develop social peace based on  diversity and equal opportunity for all. Here today, we thank UNESCO and call upon it once again to support us in this new  and decisive step, which implies a national education programme for a culture of peace and conflict prevention aimed  especially at youth, facing the danger of rising juvenile violence and the proliferation of gangs such as the marras, whose  international dimension threatens the South American region’s governability.
(28.3) Education for all and lifelong learning teaches us to how to know, to be, to do and to coexist peacefully. It is through  education that we learn how to decide for ourselves and attain our personal independence, which leads us to freedom and  empowerment. Because education is the driving force of peace, development and democracy, the Guatemalan Government is  committed to improving the reach, quality and efficiency of the school system and ensuring the strengthening of the country’s  multicultural identity. As concerns quality, we have supported the policy for curricula change, which has introduced new basic  national curricula for primary and secondary school. Concerning the status of teachers, the academic programme for  professional development has been promoted with the mutual agreement of the teachers’ union to raise teachers’ professional  standards. With regard to literacy, the illiteracy rate has been brought down to 18.4%, and the Guatemalan Government with  the support of UNESCO has now declared 12 municipalities free from illiteracy, and 11 others are next in line.
(28.4) The Participation Programme has enabled the implementation of priority projects for the education sector and the  culture sector. The joint programme “Thematic Window for Peacebuilding”, financed by the Spanish Fund, created the  education for peace  and  the unit for gender equality and ethnicity issues, leading to the creation of public policies on  education for peace and the promotion of comprehensive sexuality education. We reaffirm our country’s interest in having  UNESCO continue to support us in these issues and in other priority State programmes: post-conflict and post-disaster  programmes and regional strategic projects for teachers. Guatemala is currently listed as one of the ten most vulnerable  countries in the world owing to the effects of climate change, which means emergency help has been vitally important. In this
239  respect, we are asking the Organization to intervene within the framework of the Participation Programme and Emergency  Assistance to deal with the devastation of the tropical depression 12-E and its impact on schools and schoolchildren.
(28.5) The development of social sciences  as a public policymaking tool is fundamental for our countries, which  is why we  strongly support the Management of Social Transformations (MOST) Programme, democracy and human rights, expressing  our concern about the recent restructuring of the Social and Human Sciences Sector, which will remove the unity between all  the aforementioned issues. Guatemala acknowledges the role that UNESCO has played in promoting science for peace and  comprehensive development. In this respect, we are interested in promoting scientific development and access to knowledge,  so that countries make better use of their own natural resources, through the implementation of a national plan on  biotechnology. Lastly, I would like to say that Guatemala has linked the United Nations Millennium Development Goals (MDGs)  with peace agreements and national priorities for development. We thank UNESCO for giving Guatemala the opportunity to  host events for the 2012 World Philosophy Day, as this will allow the age-old Mayan philosophy to exchange with other  schools of philosophical thought at a time when it is critical to promote universal knowledge-based societies. Thank all you  very much.
(29) The President (translation from the Spanish):   Thank you, Minister Alonzo. I would now like to call on His Excellency Mr John Phiri, Minister of Education, Sciences  and Vocational Training of Zambia to take the floor.
30.1 Mr Phiri (Zambia):    Madam President, Madam Director-General, Honourable Ministers, Excellencies, ladies and gentlemen. On  behalf of the Government of the Republic of Zambia, I wish to congratulate you on your election and to thank you Madam  President for according me the opportunity to address this session of the UNESCO General Conference. Madam  President, in our quest to build a strong democratic culture and on the basis of our national constitution, allow me to  report to this conference that Zambia held presidential, parliamentary and local government elections on 20 September
2011. Local as well as international election observers passed the elections as transparent, peaceful, free and fair. The  elections culminated in the election of a new president, His Excellency Mr Michael Chilufya Sata, who was sworn in as  Zambia’s fifth Republican President on 23 September 2011. We salute the former president for graciously accepting  defeat and peacefully handing over power to the new Government. The peaceful transition will no doubt allow the country  to continue to enjoy the peace it has enjoyed since its independence in 1964. It will also allow the country to concentrate  on making the lives of our people a little more bearable than before. Madam President, His Excellency the President, Mr  Michael Chilufya Sata, sends through me a message of goodwill to UNESCO and wishes this General Conference  success in all its deliberations.
30.2 Madam President, Zambia has continued to make progress in  socio-economic development over the past five  years. There has been progress in terms of the gross domestic product (GDP) increasing to an average of six percent.  The country has seen a significant drop in inflation to a single digit in the last two years. However, economically, we  admit the majority of Zambians continue to be worse off even as the macro-economic environment is reported to be good,  the reason being that the benefits are not reaching the majority of our people. This can only happen when there is a  policy environment and good governance system which responds to people’s needs. The new Government expects more  growth as more investments are channelled into the mining, agriculture and tourism sectors.
30.3 Madam President, let me turn my attention to the education sector. My Government commends UNESCO for its  continued support of education. As you know, education not only plays a crucial role in the socio-economic development  of a country but it also opens up opportunities for poverty reduction, employment growth and human development. Let  me also mention that Zambia has benefited from the UNESCO-Republic of Korea-sponsored technical and vocational  education and training (TVET) pilot project called ‘Better Education for Africa’s Rise’. I would like to express our gratitude  to you for this.
30.4 Madam President, Zambia has made strides in expanding access to the primary school sector. However, the low  performance of learners at this level is worrying and calls for further intervention. At the secondary school sub-sector,  there has not been corresponding infrastructure development to absorb learners from the primary sector where  enrolment has expanded. The Government needs to invest heavily in post-primary education as current evidence has  demonstrated that the potential of post-primary education to break the cycle of the intergenerational transfer of poverty is  high. Needless to say that it is at this level that learners develop the knowledge, skills and competencies essential for  success in the job market which leads to national development. Madam President, like the secondary school sub-sector,  investment in tertiary education has lagged behind. I am, however, happy to report that my Government is determined to  address the imbalances and inequalities noted in the current delivery of education and vocational training. Allow me to  highlight the consequences of the imbalances I have just mentioned: high youth unemployment. There are a lot of girls  and boys on the streets having gone through the educational system. On behalf of my Government I appeal to UNESCO  for support to deal with this challenge.
30.5 Madam President, Zambia has a rich cultural heritage, both tangible and intangible. In this regard, we call upon  the support of UNESCO as we submit our dossier on the Barotse cultural landscape. We look forward to its speedy  approval at the 2012 meeting of the World Heritage Committee. Madam President, in the area of communication and  information, it is gratifying to note that UNESCO has been very supportive of the promotion and establishment of  community radio stations and the computerization of media institutions in Zambia. These projects, Madam President,  have played a pivotal role in enhancing the access to, and free flow of, information in an emerging democracy such as  ours. Let me take this opportunity to thank UNESCO for the support rendered and to add that we are looking forward to  UNESCO’s continued support.
30.6 Madam President, my Government welcomes the reforms being proposed in UNESCO. It is our view that the  proposed reforms are progressive and necessary. Above all, we feel that Africa will benefit because it will be the first  region in which the reforms will improve practice. In the same vein, we would like to see a strengthened cooperation  between the UNESCO Secretariat and the National Commissions. For this reason, Zambia looks forward to the speedy  establishment of a UNESCO national office in our country. In conclusion, Madam President, let me take this opportunity  to thank all Member States who supported Zambia during our tenure on the Executive Board from 2007 to 2011. In the  same vein, we thank Member States for elevating Zambia to the vice-presidency. We pledge to do our best. Ladies and  gentlemen, I thank you for your attention.
(31) The President (translation from the Spanish):   Thank you, Minister Phiri. Now His Excellency Mr João Câncio Freitas, Minister of Education of Timor-Leste will take  the floor. Welcome.
32.1 Mr Câncio Freitas  (Timor-Leste)   (Statement delivered in Portuguese; interpretation into English):   Your Excellencies, ladies and gentlemen. Timor-Leste is a young and fledging nation in terms of institution  building and legal frameworks. Next year, we will be celebrating the 10th anniversary of our independence. It is, indeed,  a great honour and pleasure for me to be here before such a distinguished assembly and to be able to report that,  despite the fact that we are building our country from scratch both in terms of infrastructure and human resources, we  have taken all the necessary measures to ensure that Timor-Leste has in place the foundations for a robust and vibrant  democracy and State institutions in which people have faith. In 2002, with independence, we faced major challenges in  terms of our natural and human resources. With these obstacles facing us we received the support of many governments  and UNESCO to work on sustainable development and education in our country. We launched the education for all  programme and we are attempting to achieve the Millennium Development Goals (MDGs) despite the fact that our  education law was only  approved in October 2008. We have managed to achieve virtually all of the objectives set for the  education sector. We have restructured the education sector, we have introduced universal and compulsory primary  education up to the age of nine and we have developed national curricula. We have developed the Education Strategic  Plan with specific goals for the next five years. In the context of a longer-term 20-year plan, highlighting the  Government’s commitment to achieving the MDGs and other international obligations to which Timor-Leste has adhered,  with the Education Strategic Plan we have established mechanisms for supporting education access and equity for all.  The results of the 2010 census show that the enrolment rate of children of school age has reached 92%. However, we  have major challenges still to overcome; for example, we must reduce the school abandonment rate as well as  developing mechanisms to reduce disparity in educational opportunities between boys and girls, open and remote rural  areas, and we must improve the overall quality of education.
32.2 Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. All our efforts are centred on the objective of developing and improving  access and quality education for all in order to provide our people with the appropriate knowledge, skills and attitudes to  enable them to participate fully in the national development process and also in the global market. We are implementing  institutional reforms to ensure that our policies are delivered with efficiency and professionalism throughout the entire  nation. In order to develop the pool of much needed quality teachers, we have approved the teacher-competency  framework and a new teacher career regime providing better incentives and motivation for teachers to perform their tasks  ethically and professionally. Nationwide training and retraining programmes have been put in place including an  accelerated Bachelor’s degree programme devised specifically for teachers who have not got to that level in order to  increase their ability to deliver quality education as mandated by the law. As mentioned earlier, new national curriculum  contents with the view of promoting and building the knowledge base for improving literacy and numeracy programmes  at basic and secondary schooling level are being implemented. Guided by UNESCO’s extensive research over decades  on the importance of local languages in education, we are currently developing a national early childhood education and  development policy adopting a mother tongue-based multilingual education approach. To ensure social and economic  inclusion, we are promoting technical and vocational and training and education, also skills for work as part of a lifelong  learning project, concentrating on secondary and post-secondary training in formal and non-formal settings. In the area  of higher education we are completing the international external accreditation of our national tertiary institutions and have  awarded successful accreditation to certain institutions with operating licences since 2009. In the informal education area,  we have been working on an intensive national literacy campaign since mid-2007 with the well-known Cuban method  and we have reduced illiteracy rates significantly.  (The speaker continues in English)
32.3 Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Finally, we are doing our best in terms of preserving our rich cultural  heritage and national patrimony. Some foreign researchers have identified 65 sites of ancient rock paintings, some  dating back thousands of years, which we would like to protect and preserve, not only for future Timorese generations  but as a possible world heritage site. May I take this opportunity to convey our sincere and profound gratitude to the  Director-General of UNESCO for the support given to the Timor-Leste National Commission for UNESCO, the newest  National Commission to get on its feet and to undertake a range of innovative programmes to advance UNESCO’s goals  and priorities in our country. I thank you, muito obrigado.
(33) The President (translation from the Spanish):   Muito obrigada, Minister. I now call on Her Excellency Ms Mamphono Khaketla, Minister of Education and Training of  Lesotho. You have the floor.
34.1 Ms Khaketla (Lesotho):    Madam President, Madam Chairp of the Executive Board, Madam Director-General of UNESCO, distinguished  delegates, ladies and gentlemen. Let me start by conveying warm and peaceful greetings from His Majesty King Letsie III,  the Government and the people of Lesotho. Lesotho is grateful for the cooperation that has existed over the years  between the Kingdom of Lesotho and UNESCO, and we would like to express our wish that there be more years of this  warm relationship. I wish to further thank the field office in Windhoek for the supportive role it has consistently given our  National Commission, providing it with advice to ensure that it adheres to the guidelines and priorities of the Organization.  The people of Lesotho have benefited from projects and activities carried out by UNESCO over many biennia.
34.2 Madam President, distinguished ladies and gentlemen, the Kingdom of Lesotho launched free primary education  in 2000 and ten years later the Government has made remarkable progress in legislating free and compulsory education  through the enactment of the Education Act 2010 in line with Millennium Development Goal 2, which calls for the  universalization of good quality primary education by 2015. I am pleased to report that Lesotho is well on track to achieve  investment in primary education by 2015. I have noted with a sense of appreciation the Director-General’s report to the  Executive Board on progress and challenges in achieving education for all by 2015. And one method of scaling up efforts  towards the realization of this goal is by achieving the political will to invest in education and making primary school  education compulsory. Another strategy recently introduced in Lesotho is the rationalization of fees in secondary and  high schools to maximize access into that level of education, especially because data has shown that the transition rate  into secondary school has been compromised due to the high fees charged, among other factors. It is the belief of the  Government of Lesotho that with the introduction of the system of rationalized fees in January 2012 most students will  access a secondary school education. Additionally, to achieve the education for all goals Lesotho is also benefiting from  another UNESCO programme called the Teacher Training Initiative for Sub-Saharan Africa. This project, which started in  December 2010, is on schedule to help in the study and analysis of all issues related to teachers such as their pre- service and in-service training, recruitment, deployment, conditions of service, absenteeism and attrition to name but a  few. This is a project which realizes the critical role of the teacher to successfully achieve education for all by 2015.
34.3 Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the Kingdom of Lesotho will be holding general elections in early 2012,  the fifth general elections to take place since the country returned to democratic rule in 1993. The Government of  Lesotho is doing all in its power to ensure that the elections will be run freely and fairly. Despite the positive outlook that I  have put before this august gathering, HIV and AIDS continue to have an adverse effect on the country and, in particular,  the education system. Through UNESCO’s Global Initiative on Education and HIV & AIDS (EDUCAIDS) a number of  projects have been carried out including one with the Lesotho Network of People Living with HIV and AIDS (LENEPWA)  which culminated in the production of a photovoice exhibition, where children aged between seven and fourteen years  who have the virus shared their experiences. The exhibition was documented through a video and will be used as a  teaching aid to advocate prevention. Again around this virus the Southern and Eastern African Consortium for Monitoring  Education Quality (SACMEQ) has introduced a new HIV-AIDS knowledge indicator suitable for administration to grade  six pupils and their teachers. Responses to this indicator in Lesotho have shown that much needs to be done to raise the  knowledge levels of primary school children about HIV and AIDS, because their teachers have knowledge about this  pandemic. To address this learning gap, UNESCO is working with other United Nations agencies to support the Ministry  of Education and Training, to review and revise the current life skills education curriculum, to make it more HIV- responsive and ensure that the knowledge of learners around HIV and AIDS is improved. For other competencies,  Lesotho will soon be opening a community radio and multimedia centre whilst in the science sector a project is being run  to improve the teaching of mathematics and science in secondary and high schools. In the social and human sciences, a  campaign is under way to create awareness around human trafficking; and lastly within the culture centre, the  development of an inventory of intangible heritage is near completion.
34.4 Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, allow me to wish Ms Irina Bokova the best in the momentous task of  being at the helm of the Organization, especially within the current economic crisis. Our government assures her of our  support and looks forward to working with her as a partner. In conclusion, I wish to congratulate you Madam President on  your election and believe that you will undertake the responsibility with honour and diligence. Thank you very much.
(35) The President (translation from the Spanish):   Thank you very much, Minister. Our next speaker is His Excellency Mr Pablo Cevallos Estarellas, Vice-Minister of  Education of Ecuador. Welcome.
(36.1) Mr Cevallos Estarellas (Ecuador) (translation from the Spanish):   Madam President of the General Conference, distinguished delegates, the Government of Ecuador is in the process  of implementing the National Plan of Good Living which revisits ancestral knowledge and proposes a harmonious interaction  between people, nature and society. Ecuador’s Constitution gives a special place to education, considering it a basic human  right, and states that: “Education is a right of persons throughout their lives and an unavoidable and mandatory duty of the  State”. So as to bring this right into effect, the Ecuadorian Government implements national policies to transform education  both quantitatively, with regard to the reach of education, and qualitatively, so as to improve the quality of the service. Among  other solid results, in 2011, Ecuador achieved an enrolment rate in primary education (six to eleven year-olds) of 95.6%. In  addition, we have managed to attain equal enrolment in general basic education between boys and girls, while for the higher  secondary education level, there are currently more girls than boys attending classes. These and other achievements have  been possible because the budget allocated to primary and secondary education has grown by approximately 247% since
2006, which means it has practically tripled in five years, currently standing at over 4% of the GDP.
(36.2) With the aim of building the research capacities of the country’s institutions dedicated to science, projects such as  “cities of knowledge” have been promoted with the aim of transforming our economy into one based on knowledge. The areas  of strategy being focused on include biotechnology, renewable energy, nanotechnology, life sciences, petrochemistry and  information and communications technology (ICT). An outstanding and historical achievement in Ecuador is the increased  investment in science and technology, which grew from just under $2 million in 2006 to  $36 million in 2009, with results  already apparent. The investment in research, development and innovation has grown by 120% since 2006, and investment in  scholarships rose by 694% from 2007 to 2008, with a 44% increase in 2009. In the same way, we are strengthening our  intercultural bilingual education system, whose goal is the inclusion of indigenous peoples to ensure they have access to  quality education in their mother languages. This project is very important as it helps the indigenous communities to develop a  sense of cultural belonging while also preserving ancestral languages.
(36.3) Madam President, Ecuador considers that, 40 years after the signature of the Convention on the Means of  Prohibiting and Preventing the Illicit Import, Export and Transfer of Ownership of Cultural Property, it is imperative that we find  new ways and methods of international cooperation within the framework of UNESCO so as to tackle the phenomenon of
243  spoliation of cultural property, especially archaeological objects. The meeting of State Parties to the 1970 Convention should  provide the opportunity to revise the operation of the instrument and reach agreements on normative changes that would  combat the growing traffic in cultural property, which involves multi-million dollar transactions. The action being considered by  the Organization in this field is complementary and reinforces the action carried out by other United Nations agencies in order  to penalize trafficking at the international level.
(36.4) In the field of social sciences, Ecuador is calling for more resources to be allocated to the Management of Social  Transformations (MOST) Programme budget. It is also requesting that activities such as the Forum of Ministers of Social  Development for Latin America, studies related to ‘Rethinking Latin America’, and the effective application of the agreement  signed by UNESCO and the Latin American Faculty of Social Sciences (FLASCO) continue to be carried out. Ecuador would  like to highlight the invaluable contribution of the meeting of the Forum of Ministers of Social Development for Latin America,  combining academic thinking with the policy-making of State entities in the field.
(36.5) Finally, with regard to the UNESCO field network reform, Ecuador deems it necessary to very carefully consider  each region’s specificity. In the Latin American and the Caribbean region, the Cluster Office in Quito, has been managing well,  but it is nonetheless necessary to remedy persistent shortcomings, through the provision of a qualified team of officials for  each sphere of the Organization’s action and implementation of the decentralization policy that was drawn up a decade ago.  At the end of the 2012-2013 biennium there should be a detailed evaluation of the possible implementation of Option 3 in other  regions, and, after due consultations with all neighbouring countries, an assessment as to whether it should be implemented in  the Latin America and the Caribbean region and the modalities of that implementation. Thank you very much.
(37) The President (translation from the Spanish):   Thank you, Vice-Minister. I now call on His Excellency Mr Gheorghe Postica, Vice-Minister of Culture for the  Republic of Moldova.
38.1 M. Postica (République de Moldova) :   Madame la Présidente, Excellences Mesdames et Messieurs les Ministres, Excellences, Mesdames et  Messieurs les Ambassadeurs, Mesdames et Messieurs, c’est avec un grand plaisir que j’adresse mes salutations  cordiales aux invités présents aujourd’hui à la 36e session de la Conférence générale de l’UNESCO. L’enjeu est majeur  pour tous les États participants. L’importance de cette session de la Conférence générale s’explique, en grande partie,  par le fait que notre monde globalisé est actuellement marqué par une crise sans précédent. Une crise économique,  sociale et environnementale qui aura des répercussions substantielles sur nos futurs objectifs prioritaires. Dans ces  conditions, aucun pays ni organisation ne pourrait, seul, faire face aux problèmes tellement complexes de la réalité  contemporaine. C’est dans ce contexte de changements dynamiques à l’échelle mondiale que devient décisive la  mission fondamentale de l’UNESCO, en tant qu’institution chargée de promouvoir la solidarité intellectuelle et morale de  l’humanité. À cet égard, la République de Moldavie soutient l’UNESCO dans ses efforts d’intensification des réformes  menées dans le cadre du système des Nations Unies. Ainsi, nous sommes prêts à participer aux diverses activités  destinées à mettre en œuvre les programmes de l’UNESCO. Nous constatons avec satisfaction les résultats de la  coopération de la République de Moldavie avec l’UNESCO dans des domaines tels que l’éducation, la science, la culture,  l’information et la communication, qui a permis d’affirmer les principes démocratiques fondamentaux de l’UNESCO.
38.2 Mesdames et Messieurs, les objectifs stratégiques de l’UNESCO, exposés dans la Stratégie à moyen terme  pour 2008-2013, représentent une base solide pour notre activité. L’accent qu’ils mettent sur l’instauration d’une culture  de la paix, de la compréhension et du dialogue, ainsi que la préférence qu’ils accordent à la résolution des problèmes  sociaux dans toutes les régions du monde, correspondent à nos aspirations communes à une vie meilleure, à la paix, à  l’égalité, au respect des droits de l’homme et à l’éducation pour tous. Certes, l’une des priorités de notre pays reste la  réalisation de l’objectif primordial de l’UNESCO concernant l’éducation de qualité pour tous, surtout dans les domaines  des sciences exactes et appliquées, des technologies, ainsi que de la sensibilisation des jeunes concernant la recherche.
38.3 Mesdames et Messieurs, pour ce qui est de la coopération avec l’UNESCO, la République de Moldova a  déployé un ample mouvement d’adhésion aux instruments normatifs élaborés sous l’égide de cette importante instance  internationale. Je voudrais notamment citer la ratification de la Convention pour la sauvegarde du patrimoine culturel  immatériel et la Convention sur la protection et la promotion de la diversité des expressions culturelles. Je saisis cette  occasion pour souligner l’importance que notre pays accorde aux thèmes liés au dialogue interculturel et au respect de  la diversité. L’une des priorités majeures, conformément aux objectifs de l’UNESCO en matière de développement  durable et de protection du patrimoine culturel et naturel, pourrait être la coopération régionale dans le domaine du  tourisme culturel. Il convient de mentionner qu’à l’heure actuelle, en Moldavie, des projets d’itinéraires touristiques sont  mis au point en ce qui concerne les sites vitivinicoles, les paysages culturels et le patrimoine ecclésiastique, en  particulier les monastères rupestres. Dans ce contexte, nous proposons d’étudier la possibilité de créer un Centre  régional d’architecture rupestre et de paysages vitivinicoles en République de Moldova, ce qui contribuerait à  l’identification, la préservation et l’utilisation durable du patrimoine culturel et naturel de la région, et offrirait des  possibilités d’échanges culturels dynamiques afin de promouvoir le développement économique durable et la  communication dans le respect des valeurs de la diversité culturelle. Je vous remercie de votre attention.
(39) The President:   Merci. Thank you very much Minister. I would now like to call on Mr Karomatullo Olimov, Chairperson of the  Tajikistan National Commission for UNESCO. Welcome, President.
(40.1) Mr Olimov (Tajikistan) (translation from the Russian):    Distinguished President, distinguished Director-General, distinguished delegates, allow me first of all to congratulate  Ms Katalin Bogyay on her election to the lofty post of President of the General Conference, and wish her success in this  crucial work.
(40.2) I should also like to express gratitude to the Director-General, H.E. Ms Irina Bokova, for her endeavours to reform  UNESCO and strengthen the multilateral ties between UNESCO Member States. The presentation of the Organization’s new  Programme and Budget for 2012-2013 is of particular significance, since this entails the next stage in the implementation of
245  the Medium-Term Strategy for 2008-2013. UNESCO’s watchword “culture of peace” has never reflected better the nature of  this organization’s work. There is no doubt that this noble purpose may only be realized by improving the quality of education  for people, safeguarding and transmitting cultural values to future generations, developing science and protecting the  environment.
(40.3) The Government of Tajikistan under Emomali Rahmon is striving to strengthen and enhance the role of UNESCO in  the country, the region and the world as a whole. We share the aim of the Organization’s leadership to reinforce its role in  Member States by means of reinforcing the potential of the National Commissions, and this concerns in particular those  countries where UNESCO is not represented.
(40.4) As you know, the lion’s share of UNESCO’s Draft Programme and Budget for 2012-2013 is dedicated to  development in the field of education. The Government of Tajikistan follows this model, annually increasing the resources from  the State budget. In 2011, the indicator rose to 4.7% of GDP, which in relation to 2005 is a more than five-fold increase. Our  country is working to ensure the fulfilment of its obligations in international programmes, in particular the Millennium  Development Goals and the UNESCO education for all goals, which must be reached by 2015.
(40.5) UNESCO’s efforts to safeguard the tangible and intangible cultural heritage of humanity are inherently linked to the  ideal of a culture of peace. We are grateful to the UNESCO World Heritage Committee and its members for their assistance in  the inclusion of Tajikistan’s cultural heritage site, the settlement of Sarazm with a history stretching back 5,500 years, in the  UNESCO World Heritage List. We also thank the Committee for its assistance to the National Commission in preparing  documents, and in the expert evaluation of the Tajik National Park. In the framework of regional cooperation, Tajikistan is in  favour of completing without delay the preparation of documents for the serial nomination of the Great Silk Road monuments.
(40.6) Esteemed delegates, the development of science and technology is an integral part of the overall advancement of  the international community. This year in Tajikistan, two national committees were established for the Programme on Man and  the Biosphere and the International Hydrological Programme, respectively. At present, work is being carried out by experts  and the management of Tajikistan’s Academy of Sciences to prepare the first request for inclusion in the UNESCO World  Network of Biosphere Reserves. The management of water resources is one of the most important global problems today. At  the 66th session of the United Nations General Assembly, the Minister for Foreign Affairs of Tajikistan made a point of  referring to the threat posed by the intensive melting of glaciers in Tajikistan, where 60% of all Central Asia’s water resources  are formed. Over the past 30 years, the area covered by glaciers has shrunk by more than 35%. We consider that this  question warrants greater attention and involvement by the international community, as it directly concerns ensuring water and  food security. In this connection, we endorse the proposal of Kazakhstan for the establishment of a regional glaciology centre  and we are also in favour of establishing an international fund to safeguard glaciers under the auspices of UNESCO.
(40.7) Distinguished delegates, in the years since it has become independent, my country’s cooperation with UNESCO has  enabled essential results to be achieved. One of the most recent examples of outstanding cultural events was the celebration  of the 100th anniversary of the Tajik poet and freedom fighter, Mirzo Turzun-Zoda. In his address on that occasion, President  Emomali Rahmon expressed thanks to the leadership of UNESCO for respecting our culture and its great representative.
(40.8)  Many of those who have spoken from this podium have referred to the threat of terrorism, xenophobia, and so on.  We suggest in this regard that it is extremely important for UNESCO to pay attention to the issue of the moral upbringing of  young people, the development of education and the search for a way to prevent all forms of violence and its propaganda by  various means from damaging universal human values. This is a task for the whole world, with strategic significance for the  spread of a culture of peace and the life of the coming generations.
(40.9) Mr President, Tajikistan supports the efforts of UNESCO’s leaders and is convinced that UNESCO will remain a  prestigious and active organization, responding appropriately to events in the world, that the Organization will act to effectively  rise to global challenges, successfully promoting its humanistic values. We wish the UNESCO leadership and Ms Bokova  great success and constructive work in this respect.
(41) The President (translation from the Spanish):   Thank you, Mr President. I would now like to call on Ms Elnura Korchueva, Secretary-General of the National  Commission of the Kyrgyz Republic for UNESCO.
42.1 Ms Korchueva (Kyrgyzstan):    Your Excellency Madam President, Madam Director-General, Madam Chairperson of the Executive Board of  UNESCO, Excellencies, dear colleagues, ladies and gentlemen. It is a great honour and pleasure for me to address this  distinguished audience today. First of all allow me on behalf of my Government, the Government of the Kyrgyz Republic  to heartily greet all countries participating at the 36th session of the General Conference of UNESCO. I am also pleased  to congratulate you Madam President on your election. I would also like to congratulate Curaçao, Sint Maarten and  South Sudan on joining UNESCO’s family and wish them fruitful cooperation with the Organization and its Member  States. Distinguished participants, let me continue in Russian.   (The speaker continues in Russian)
(42.2) (translation from the Russian) Distinguished participants, after the particularly painful and tragic events of 2010,  Kyrgyzstan is once more on the road to construction and development. At that very difficult time for Kyrgyzstan, when the  country was on the verge of a political crisis, only the strong political determination of the new leadership of our country and  assistance from the international community, including UNESCO, enabled Kyrgyzstan to stabilize the situation. One of the  measures taken by the government to prevent a similar situation arising in the future was the adoption of the concept of the  development of an ethnic policy. Furthermore, there are plans to hold, in 2012, an international conference on education in  post-conflict situations, which will take place with backing from UNESCO and a range of other international agencies.  Tomorrow, 30 October, there will be elections in our country for the post of President of the Republic of Kyrgyzstan. The multi- ethnic people of Kyrgyzstan hope and trust that the chosen leader with the support of the people will be able to set the right  path to multilateral cooperation and integration in the regional and international arena.
(42.3) Ladies and gentlemen, the world is in the midst of an economic crisis that is felt in each of our countries and,  possibly, has an impact on UNESCO’s work. In this connection, we welcome UNESCO’s intention to build its action with the  aim of achieving tangible results. Creating the conditions to exchange new ideas and new visions of seeking answers to the  challenges facing humanity right now, always has been and will remain UNESCO’s strength. We call for UNESCO’s potential  to be used as a global forum for ideas. In 2012, Kyrgyzstan plans to hold, together with UNESCO and other international  organizations, the Third International Issyk-Kul Forum, one of whose founders was the world-renowned Kyrgyz writer and  humanist, Chingiz Aitmatov. The Issyk-Kul Forum turned out to herald many processes and events that took place at the end  of the twentieth century. The fall of the “iron curtain”, which had erected an artificial mental barrier to the development of  intercultural dialogue, the triumph of universal humanist values over the diktat of political regimes – all of that was already  guessed at and predicted by the participants of the First Issyk-Kul Forum. The relevance of these ideas is still alive now and is  one of the best proofs of the need to renew the Issyk-Kul Forum as a global movement of intellectuals.
(42.4) Distinguished participants, a few days ago the UNESCO Youth Forum completed its work. UNESCO’s decision to  hold the first Youth Forum in 1999 was very wise and far-sighted. The events that are taking place in the Middle East and took  place earlier in Kyrgyzstan have shown the role of young people in the social and political changes taking place across the  world. As the President of Kyrgyzstan, Roza Otunbaeva, said when she addressed the United Nations General Assembly at its
66th session, young people are not only the future, but already the present of our countries. We call on countries to do all in  their power to implement the recommendations of the seventh UNESCO Youth Forum. Kyrgyzstan has elaborated a new  education strategy for 2012-2020, under which significant attention will be paid to improving the quality of education for young  people and adults. An important role in the document is also given to the development of intercultural and multilingual  education.
(42.5) In 2012, ladies and gentlemen, 20 years will have passed since Kyrgyzstan joined UNESCO, and cooperation with  the Organization has always been given high priority. Kyrgyzstan welcomes the reforms started by Ms Bokova and will  furthermore make efforts to develop a constructive partnership. Thank you for your attention.
(43) The President (translation from the Spanish):   Thank you Ms Korchueva from Kyrgyzstan. Our next speaker is His Excellency Mr Wafic Rida Saïd, Ambassador of
247  Saint Vincent and the Grenadines to UNESCO. Minister, the floor is yours.
44.1 Mr Said (Saint Vincent and the Grenadines):    Madam President, Madam Director-General, Madam Chair of the Executive Board, Ministers, Excellencies,  ladies and gentlemen. Madam President may I congratulate you on your well-deserved election as President of the  General Conference and say that my country is absolutely delighted that UNESCO is leading the way on gender equality.  We wish you every success. I would also like to join those who have paid tribute to my friend Davidson Hepburn, the  outgoing President, the first from our Caribbean community to hold this important position; he was an outstanding  President and also as we now know, a great singer. Since the last General Conference, only two years ago, the world  has suffered many crises with tragic consequences: natural disasters, armed conflict, famine and huge financial and  economic crises. These terrible events have affected all countries from large to small, from the richest to the poorest. But,  as ever, it is the poorest communities and small, vulnerable countries such as small island developing States that are  least able to react and adapt. An urgent response is needed at the international level and it is thus most pertinent and  timely that the Leaders’ Forum discussed how UNESCO contributes to building a culture of peace and  sustainable  development. We believe that UNESCO through its wide-ranging policy advice, savoir faire, expertise, and its role in  capacity building is uniquely placed to help find solutions. These are the key over-riding issues for our future strategy.  But UNESCO’s priority must remain education because education is the key to development and it is through education  that we can address conflict, intolerance and extremism and foster peace in the minds of men and women.
44.2 Madam President, education is also the priority of the Government of Saint Vincent and the Grenadines and that  is one of the reasons why UNESCO is so important to us. Our education programmes have achieved universal access to  secondary education and have significantly reduced illiteracy. But we know there is much more to be done. The  education system in the Caribbean is not working for boys, many of whom leave school early and turn to drug abuse and  crime. With their needs in mind, we have implemented the UNESCO programme on technical and vocational education  and training (TVET) which is very important for my Government. This programme is vital given growing levels of  unemployment and the need for young people to have the skills to meet new demands from employers. As a small island  developing State in the front line of climate change, education for sustainable development is essential to enable us to  address the changes and to mitigate their disastrous effects. UNESCO has a major role to play in this field. We thank the  Director-General for her continued work to ensure the implementation of the Mauritius Strategy. We also urge the  Intergovernmental Oceanographic Commission (IOC) to accelerate the full establishment of the tsunami early warning  system in the Caribbean.
44.3 Regarding culture, it is important that the 2001 Convention on the Protection of the Underwater Cultural Heritage,  the 2003 Convention for the Safeguarding of the Intangible Cultural Heritage and the 2005 Convention on the Protection  and Promotion of the Diversity of Cultural Expressions be given adequate financial and human resources to enable their  better implementation. Director-General, since you took over the Organization, you have undertaken significant reforms  in management and restructuring which we welcome and fully support. We believe that such reforms are important to  reduce unnecessary bureaucracy, to rationalize our operations and to focus our efforts where they are most needed. As  you rightly said, Director-General, we must “reform to perform”. We also support the recommendations of the ad hoc  working group following the independent external evaluation of UNESCO. We are also in favour of an eight-year rolling  strategy which should be concise and focused so as to privilege quality rather than quantity. And we strongly support a  four-year programme cycle to improve stability and coherence.
44.4 Madam President, to conclude I would like to stress that Saint Vincent and the Grenadines remains firmly  committed to supporting the ideals, objectives and work of UNESCO. We believe that in these difficult times, UNESCO’s  values are more relevant and its role more important than ever before. Thank you.
(45) The President (translation from the Spanish):   Thank you, Ambassador of Saint Vincent and the Grenadines. I would now like to call on His Excellency Mr Gürcan  Türkoğlu, Ambassador of Turkey.
46.1 Mr Türkoğlu (Turkey):    Madam President, Excellencies, ladies and gentlemen. I would like to begin by expressing our gratitude to the  UNESCO family for sincerely sharing Turkey’s sorrow after the earthquake which occurred last week. The Director- General’s opening statement at the Leaders’ Forum of the General Conference, where she made a reference to the  international compassion for a 16-day old premature baby girl rescued from the rubble after the earthquake as ‘’a symbol  of a strong feeling of empathy which is at the heart of humanism’’ has widely resonated throughout the Turkish media,  deeply touching the people. The call made by Ms Bokova on this occasion ‘’to strengthen our ties and stay united to  efficiently respond to global challenges’’ was also heard. This reference, even though it came out of a tragedy, has once  again confirmed UNESCO’s relevance with regard to a variety of core issues, from girls’ education to disaster relief and  from communication to humanism and empathy. Indeed UNESCO has already proved capable of responding to these  challenges. UNESCO’s relief activities in Haiti and Pakistan, the Initiative for a Global Partnership for Girls’ and Women’s  Education, UNESCO’s leading role at the thematic Economic and Social Council (ECOSOC) meeting on education, the  report presented by UNESCO to the United Nations General Assembly on culture and development and the progress  achieved in tsunami early-warning activities are only some of the indications of the energized role of UNESCO in all  these fields. The enthusiastic responses and contributions received from intellectuals all over the world to the Director- General’s call for a new humanism has shown that UNESCO can revive its role as a laboratory of ideas.
46.2  Madam President, Turkey, as one of the 20 founding States of UNESCO and a candidate to the Executive  Board, sees the 36th session of the General Conference as an opportunity under your dynamic Presidency and with an  able new team at the helm of the Secretariat. It is a fresh opportunity to give UNESCO’s global vocation the full  relevance, focus and visibility it deserves. We consider the initiatives launched by the Director-General both in  management and programmes as steps taken in the right direction.
46.3 Madam President, you will recall that during the deliberations at the previous General Conference, there were  times when youth and cities were considered to be hotspots of problems and conflicts. However, it is now very clear that  young people of the world from Wall Street to Tahrir Square should not be considered as sources of problems but voices  of solutions. While voicing demands and expectations on justice, transparency, accountability, democracy and human  rights, they are in fact presenting solutions and outlining principles related to global, political, economic and cultural  issues for a better future not only for themselves but for humanity as a whole. These are not unrelated to UNESCO’s  principles. Therefore UNESCO’s efforts to be connected to these young voices are to be praised. In the same way,  UNESCO’s admittance of Palestine as a Member State would constitute a contribution to peace, enhancing its credibility  and inclusiveness. Palestine’s membership of UNESCO would also help to ease the problems of the Palestinian people  regarding their educational institutions and the conservation of their heritage. When peace matters are concerned,  Turkey, as a co-sponsor of the United Nations Initiative on the Alliance of Civilizations together with Spain, considers  UNESCO’s new Intersectoral Platform for a Culture of Peace and Non-Violence as a very important means to promote  dialogue and reconciliation and also to act against all forms of religious and ethnic extremism from anti-Semitism to  Islamophobia, from racism to xenophobia.
46.4 Madam President, UNESCO’s medium-term priorities are Turkey’s priorities as well. As a follow-up to the 2008  Turkey-Africa Cooperation Summit, a conference at ministerial level will be held in Istanbul next December. Turkey will  also be vigorously following up the conclusions of the 4th United Nations Conference on the Least Developed Countries  summit which we hosted in Istanbul with the participation of the Director-General of UNESCO. On the issue of gender,  Turkey has included the principle of “positive discrimination for women” in its legislation and has been among the first few  countries to sign a landmark convention against domestic violence. Madam President, my Government, in cooperation  with our UNESCO National Commission, will promote the 40th anniversary of the World Heritage Convention and the
10th anniversary of the Convention for the Safeguarding of the Intangible Cultural Heritage as valuable occasions to  improve awareness and diligence on these issues. I am also pleased to inform you that the 2005 Convention on the  Protection and Promotion of the Diversity of Cultural Expressions has been approved by the relevant parliamentary  commission for imminent ratification. Thank you.   Ms Bogyay resumes the Chair.
47. The President:   Thank you very much Your Excellency for your statement. And now I would like to give the floor to the  Secretary-General of the Togalese National Commission for UNESCO His Excellency Mr Akoété Kougblenou. The floor  is yours, Sir.
48.1 M. Kougblenou (Togo) :   Madame la Présidente de la Conférence générale, Mesdames et Messieurs, permettez-moi d’adresser à  Madame la Présidente mes chaleureuses félicitations pour sa brillante élection à la présidence de notre présente  session. Que Madame la Présidente du Conseil exécutif trouve également ici toute notre gratitude pour la qualité du  travail accompli tout au long de l’exercice biennal qui s’achève. Je voudrais enfin féliciter Mme la Directrice générale de  l’UNESCO pour les actions qu’elle mène en faveur de la paix et du développement depuis son élection à la tête de notre  Organisation, il y a deux ans.
48.2 Mesdames et Messieurs, la paix et la sécurité internationale, au cœur des préoccupations de l’UNESCO, se  trouvent une nouvelle fois fortement menacées en raison de la persistance des conflits, notamment en Afrique, au  Moyen-Orient et ailleurs dans le monde. Nous remarquons avec amertume que plus de 65 ans après la création de  l’UNESCO, la mission qui lui a été confiée de « cultiver la paix dans l’esprit des hommes » est mise à rude épreuve,  alors même que les conflits internes au sein des États, dus à la xénophobie, à la haine et au déficit démocratique,  prennent le pas sur les conflits entre les États. Il me paraît impérieux de rappeler que l’éducation est l’un des  déterminants incontournables d’une culture de la paix. Les fondements essentiels de la culture de la paix demeurent la  tolérance, la compréhension mutuelle et la justice. Ces valeurs sont à l’origine de la mise en place, au Togo, d’une  « Commission vérité, justice et réconciliation », outil destiné à relever le défi de l’avènement d’un monde de paix et de  réconciliation.
48.3 Le Projet de programme et de budget 2012-2013 soumis à notre examen réaffirme un certain nombre d’axes  prioritaires de l’UNESCO qui interpellent le gouvernement de mon pays. Depuis 1989, l’Afrique fait partie des premières  priorités de notre Organisation. Il importe que cette priorité soit maintenue au cours de l’exercice biennal à venir et se  traduise par des actions concrètes au niveau des programmes de notre Organisation. En vue d’accroître la contribution  de l’éducation au développement économique et social, une déclaration de politique sectorielle et un plan sectoriel pour  l’éducation ont été adoptés pour la période 2010-2020. Selon cette politique, le système éducatif est conçu dans une  perspective holistique, chaque niveau et chaque type d’apprentissage étant envisagé comme faisant partie d’un tout  interconnecté. Dans cette perspective, même si l’éducation de base constitue le socle du système, les enseignements  secondaire et technique, l’alphabétisation et l’enseignement supérieur sont également au cœur de nos préoccupations,  ainsi que la mise en place d’une bonne politique de la question enseignante. Nous nous félicitons du choix porté sur  notre pays, dans le cadre de l’Initiative pour l’alphabétisation : savoir pour pouvoir (LIFE), pour bénéficier du projet  d’appui au renforcement des capacités en vue de l’amélioration de la qualité de l’alphabétisation et de l’éducation non
249  formelle (CapEPT), dont le lancement officiel a eu lieu à Lomé en septembre 2010. Nous nous félicitons également du  lancement à l’Université de Lomé, en août 2011, de la production de cours en ligne, avec la formation d’enseignants,  dans le cadre de la mise en œuvre du Campus virtuel africain au Togo.
48.4 Mesdames et Messieurs, le renforcement des systèmes et des politiques scientifiques, techniques,  technologiques et d’innovation en vue du développement durable et de l’élimination de la pauvreté est au cœur des  préoccupations de l’UNESCO à l’orée de ce nouvel exercice biennal. Nous nous réjouissons de la décision prise à  l’issue de la 23e session du Conseil international de coordination du Programme sur l’Homme et la biosphère, tenue  récemment en Allemagne, en vue de l’inclusion dans le Réseau mondial des réserves de biosphère du complexe Oti- Kéran/Oti-Mandouri du Togo.
48.5 Madame la Présidente, la nécessité de promouvoir la participation accrue des femmes à la science et à la  recherche doit demeurer l’une de nos priorités. La Chaire UNESCO sur les femmes, la science et la gestion raisonnée  de l’eau en Afrique de l’Ouest, à l’Université de Lomé, est un atout à cet égard. La priorité sectorielle biennale dans le  domaine de la culture, notamment celle relative à la protection et à la promotion du patrimoine et des expressions  culturelles, est une préoccupation constante de l’UNESCO que le Togo a fait sienne. Elle a donné lieu, au cours de  l’année 2010, à des activités de promotion du tourisme culturel avec la matérialisation des sites des vestiges de  l’esclavage sur toute l’étendue du territoire national. Une fois encore, nos compliments et notre appui vont à Mme la  Présidente du Conseil exécutif et à Mme la Directrice générale de l’UNESCO, Mme Irina Bokova, ainsi qu’à toute son  équipe. Je vous remercie.
49. The President:   Thank you very much Your Excellency. And now I would like to give the floor to the Ambassador and Permanent  Delegate of Ukraine to UNESCO, His Excellency Mr Oleksandr Kupchyshyn. The floor is yours, Sir. Good Morning.
50.1 Mr Kupchyshyn (Ukraine):    Madam President, distinguished delegates. First of all, I would like to congratulate you, Madam President, on  your election to the high office of the President of the General Conference. As we are well aware, today’s globalized  world is increasingly marked by rapid changes that affect all areas of human activities. We share the Director-General’s  view that progressively increasing crises of an economic, environmental and ethical nature require response in the form  of a new humanism. We believe that UNESCO’s recently declared vision of its role in improving the world model  constitutes its legacy and prestige. It is our task to elaborate new universal ethical principles of living together in harmony,  sharing knowledge, resources and good practices.
50.2 Madam President, new challenges are often accompanied by new opportunities which UNESCO can generate.  The Organization’s goal is to continue mobilizing science, technology and innovation practices to ensure enhancing good  quality programme delivery and achieving expected outcomes. Ukraine commends the continuing efforts by the  Director-General to reform UNESCO’s programmes and organizational structures. We support the alignment of the  planning cycles with the quadrennial comprehensive policy review of operational activities of the United Nations system.  Also, at a time of overall financial restraints, we consider that the Draft Programme and Budget for 2012-2013 with zero  nominal growth corresponds to existing possibilities. We believe that UNESCO’s focus on scientific programmes such as  the International Basic Sciences Programme (IBSP) and the Programme on Man and the Biosphere (MAB) is quite  reasonable. It is a pleasure to inform you that yesterday the Governments of Ukraine, Belarus and Poland signed a  trilateral agreement on establishing the Transboundary Biosphere Reserve “West Polessie”. The ceremony of  inauguration of this new ecosystem will take place on 3 November here in UNESCO Headquarters, when the  International Biosphere Reserve Day will be celebrated. Let me express our sincere gratitude to the Japanese Fund-in- Trust and MAB Secretariat for the generous support of this trilateral project which is aimed at contributing to the  preservation of biodiversity and ensuring sustainable development. Ukraine will also follow its commitments on  sustainable development, working intensively within UNESCO’s MAB programme and the Intergovernmental  Oceanographic Commission to which our country has been devoted since its inception. We also believe in the important  role of UNESCO in the protection of populations and the environment from the negative consequences of technological  catastrophes. Education is and should continue to be at the heart of UNESCO’s mandate. In this respect, Ukraine  supports the idea of holding a high level annual summit to reflect on the importance of this topic.
50.3 Distinguished delegates, initiated in 2010, the “rapprochement of cultures” should remain one of UNESCO’s key  tools for the culture of peace. As co-sponsor, Ukraine supports the proposal of Kazakhstan to proclaim the years 2013-
2024 as an international decade for the rapprochement of cultures. We can also speak about our own initiative in this  direction. Last year the capital of Ukraine pioneered the international seminar on “The role of religious communities in the  management of world heritage properties”. Its outcomes are reflected in the decision of June’s 35th session of the World  Heritage Committee that envisages further elaboration of this new emerging initiative. To this end, a fund of Member  States’ voluntary contributions was created. Contributions of Member States, both financial and intellectual, are most  welcome.
50.4 UNESCO’s integration into the world of modern communication technologies proves its strong effectiveness. It is  therefore crucial that this vector of the Organization’s activities is further developed and implemented in its major  programmes, in particular through the Information for All Programme. Next month Ukraine is to host an international  conference on information and communication technologies to elaborate respective strategies.
50.5 Madam President, I am confident that the General Conference will take value-added decisions, reinforcing  UNESCO’s efficiency, competitiveness and great potential in confronting new threats and challenges of the modern  world. It is our shared responsibility. Thank you Madam President.
51. The President:   Thank you very much, Your Excellency. And now we come to Observers who will take the floor. I will give them  three minutes. First I would like to ask the Permanent Observer of the Holy See to UNESCO, His Excellency Monsignor  Francesco Follo, to take the floor.
52.1 Mgr Follo (Observateur permanent du Saint-Siège) :   Madame la Présidente de la Conférence générale, au nom de Sa Sainteté le Pape Benoît XVI, j’ai le grand  honneur de vous féliciter pour votre élection à la présidence de cette assemblée prestigieuse. Excellences, le Saint- Siège appuie le document 36 C/5 et vous propose des pistes de réflexion sur la culture de la paix. Afin de rendre effectif  le projet de la paix universelle, il conviendrait d’y ajouter des projets de paix locale, à trois niveaux. Le premier de ces  niveaux est la famille. Si l’homme doit apprendre à être humain, c’est au sein de la famille qu’il commencera à le faire.  C’est dans la famille que l’on apprend à être et à devenir homme. Apprendre à vivre en cette cellule sociale originelle est  donc une priorité. Le second niveau est l’école, deuxième société locale, où l’enfant apprend, mais aussi acquiert un  comportement d’être social. L’enfant a besoin d’une culture et de connaissances diversifiées. Il a aussi besoin d’être  éduqué, par l’école et une vie commune sereine, et à rencontrer l’autre, différent de lui. Dans un monde profondément  divisé, l’école peut former des agents de paix et promouvoir une culture de la paix. Le troisième niveau est la cité. Il faut  donc œuvrer pour que la ville soit humaine, c’est-à-dire fondée sur la vérité de personne humaine, qui se développe  dans la paix. Une paix qui a une culture, avant d’être un réseau concret de relations paisibles au sein de la famille, à  l’école, dans la ville et entre les nations. Ceci nous renvoie au problème de la culture, entendue dans son sens le plus  large. La culture est l’ensemble des gestes, rites, actes de parole et pratiques qui structurent la vie d’une communauté.  De ce fait, la plate-forme intersectorielle pour une culture de la paix et de la non-violence revêt une importance toute  particulière à l’UNESCO, et grande pour l’humanité, car ce sont toutes les activités humaines qui doivent relever d’une  culture de la paix.
52.2 Aujourd’hui, j’ai beaucoup entendu parler de paix et de développement. C’est très juste, mais je me permets  simplement d’ajouter une phrase de Benoît XVI selon qui, « s’il n’est pas de tout l’homme et de tout homme, le  développement n’est pas un vrai développement ». Je vous remercie de votre attention.
53. The President:   Thank you very much, Your Excellency. And now I will give the floor to the President of the World Federation of  UNESCO Clubs, Centres and Associations Mr George Christophides.
54.1 Mr Christophides (President of the World Federation of UNESCO Clubs, Centres and Associations – WFUCA):    Madam Director-General of UNESCO, Madam President of the General Conference, Madam Chair of the  Executive Board, Honourable Ministers, distinguished delegates, ladies and gentlemen. It is my honour and privilege to  address the General Conference and on this occasion I pay tribute and respect to all contributors to the development of  WFUCA, the World Federation of UNESCO Clubs, Centres and Associations. Last August, during the 8th World  Congress of WFUCA held in Hanoi, Viet Nam we celebrated the 30th anniversary of the establishment of our movement  and we had the pleasure to receive the reconfirmation of the continuous support of UNESCO through the video message  of the Director-General of UNESCO Ms Irina Bokova, who was represented on that occasion. We would like to express  our since thanks to Ms Bokova for her strong support of the civil society partnership and particularly the UNESCO Clubs  movement. We really appreciated her statement regarding the involvement of youth in our movement of UNESCO Clubs.  I would also like to mention the video message of the former Director-General of UNESCO Mr Federico Mayor and the  message of the former Director-General of UNESCO Mr Koïchiro Matsuura, who attended the events in Hanoi. It was in  Hanoi that we approved the action plan of WFUCA for the next four years including the omnibus project “Global Ethics –  Save the Planet Earth”. The challenge of globalization as well as the current economic and political crisis has underlined  the increasing importance of the role of civil society. For this reason our Organization, UNESCO, together with  international non-governmental organizations (NGOs) like WFUCA, provides the ideal platform on which we can jointly  cooperate in promoting the ideals of UNESCO for a new brave world. WFUCA will be at the disposal of UNESCO to work  together, as we have done for the past three decades, promoting global communication and understanding for the  development of a framework of global ethics and sustainable development.
54.2 I express our full respect to UNESCO for the support shown to our organization since 1981. Although current  challenges with which our world is confronted have created new obstacles towards reaching certain goals, we are ready  to cooperate. We propose that UNESCO declare an international day of global ethics and to organize a United Nations  ethics summit. The International Year of Youth has set a new goal in encouraging young people to be more active in  societies, for worldwide sustainable development. Youth can and must play an important role in confronting the new  challenges of our time. Recent national disasters and political tensions summon the world for urgent mobilization. We  have in mind a project regarding the symbiosis of compatible forms which should live together like “ego” and “geo”. It is  generally recognized that for UNESCO to achieve its goals, its message must reach not only leaders but also the civil  society. WFUCA confirms its commitment to cooperate with UNESCO. Thank you.
(56.1) Mr Alkarni (Arab Bureau of Education for the Gulf States ‒ ABEGS) (translation from the Arabic):   In the name of God, the Merciful, the Clement, Your Excellency the President of the General Conference, Your  Excellencies ministers, ladies and gentlemen, peace and the mercy and blessings of God be upon you. Allow me to begin by  saluting you, thanking you for your efforts, and blessing this gathering, which reflects your great interest in science and  civilization. Allow me also to convey to you the greetings of educationalists and intellectuals in the Member States of the Arab  Bureau of Education for the Gulf States (ABEGS), which are the United Arab Emirates (UAE), the Kingdom of Bahrain, the  Republic of Yemen, the State of Kuwait, the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia, the Sultanate of Oman, and the State of Qatar. All  these countries greatly appreciate your concern for the future of human culture as a whole. How pleased I am to stand before  you today to share in your aspirations for a world in which peace rules supreme, which is adorned by justice, and whose  people believe that a life of dignity is the primary basis of life as a whole ‒ the noblest goal that may be sought by any person,  wherever they may be. In this connection, allow me, Excellencies, to offer you warm greetings and sincere thanks for the  recommendation of your esteemed Organization to accept the State of Palestine as a full member of UNESCO. This  recommendation is clear proof of your civilizational far-sightedness, and represents a stage of great significance in your overall  humanitarian course. We in ABEGS believe that education and true culture can but make this sprawling world with its  numerous conflicts a single world which exists on a basis of tolerance and mutual respect among its inhabitants.
(56.2) Ladies and gentlemen, ABEGS looks forward to greater cooperation with your esteemed Organization, and works  with all possible energy and sincere efforts together with the ministries of education in the Member States to develop  education in its various forms. It is achieving particularly good progress in the field of literacy in its various concepts and  aspects, including cultural, scientific and civilizational literacy. We are devoting ever greater attention to the role of women and  focus thereon in our societies, thus arming ourselves with all the accelerating technology that is available, and remaining open  to advanced modern international expertise. The reality of education in the ABEGS countries is a qualitative leap aimed at the  individual as both an objective and a purpose. Our countries are accelerating their course towards construction and  development. The fields of education are witnessing exceptional development in the numbers of schools and educational  establishments and the numbers of pupils and teachers. These countries have exerted determined and continued efforts for  education by means of development plans executed and accompanied by careful monitoring and assessment. Those plans  have led to great success in the shape of large numbers of graduates from the ABEGS Member States, who have gone on to  take jobs in various fields of work and shouldered their responsibilities in the course of construction, modernization and  development. Those following this educational renaissance achieved by the ABEGS Member States in the field of education  over a short space of time consider it to be an admirable quantum leap. In conclusion, I salute you and wish your General  Conference every success in achieving its objectives. Peace and the mercy and blessings of God be upon you.
57. The President:   Thank you very much. And I would like to give the floor now to the President of the NGO-UNESCO Liaison  Committee Mr Bernard Loing. The floor is yours.
58.1 M. Loing (Président du Comité de liaison ONG-UNESCO) :   Madame la Présidente, Excellences, Mesdames et Messieurs, au cours de la séance qui vient de s’achever, la  Commission PRX a adopté sans débat les nouvelles directives précédemment examinées par le Comité sur les ONG du  Conseil exécutif à sa séance du 23 septembre. En ma qualité de Président de la Conférence internationale des ONG,  j’avais, au cours de cette séance, émis de fortes réserves concernant ces nouvelles directives et, surtout, le manque de  concertation qui avait précédé. Je continue de regretter la hâte qui a présidé à leur adoption et je ne peux que m’élever  contre le fait qu’elles nous soient ainsi imposées. Nous avons pris acte de cette décision et la communauté des ONG en  tirera toutes les conséquences.
58.2 Je tiens à rappeler que nos critiques ne portaient en aucune manière sur le principe d’une évolution des  directives, ni sur leur nécessaire adaptation au monde d’aujourd’hui. Au contraire, nous accueillons favorablement cette  évolution. Le débat qui n’a pas eu lieu aurait dû nous permettre d’exprimer notre attachement à la diversité qui préside à  l’action de l’UNESCO, notamment au moyen de la représentation régionale. Mais cette représentation régionale, telle  que prévue dans les nouvelles directives, ne va pas de soi. Elle doit être organisée avec un Comité de liaison qui serait  composé pour moitié d’ONG ayant leur siège dans les diverses régions du monde. Il y a un véritable travail d’adaptation  à faire et il faut trouver de nouveaux moyens, notamment des moyens financiers pour réunir les membres et mener les  actions requises. En effet, le budget très limité – je rappelle qu’il s’agit de 10 000 euros par an reçus de l’UNESCO en  complément des contributions volontaires versées par certaines ONG – ne permet pas de couvrir tous nos besoins. Il
252  faut également trouver de nouveaux moyens techniques et technologies pour la communication, entre autres, ainsi que  de nouvelles procédures de contact et de nouveaux mécanismes de travail. Il ne s’agit donc pas seulement d’une  adaptation de surface ou de circonstance, et c’est là aussi la raison pour laquelle nous regrettons qu’une réflexion en  profondeur sur la coopération entre les ONG et l’UNESCO n’ait pas pu être menée. Nous avions pourtant entamé cette  réflexion. Puisqu’une régionalisation renforcée est nécessaire, on pourrait par exemple envisager un transfert au niveau  de chacune des régions du travail actuellement accompli par le Comité de liaison à Paris, avec des comités de liaison  régionaux. Beaucoup d’idées sont à creuser et il me semble qu’il n’appartient pas seulement aux ONG de s’en saisir,  mais qu’elles concernent aussi les représentants des États membres qui ont adopté ces nouvelles directives, notamment  le Comité sur les ONG du Conseil exécutif.
58.3 Au point où nous en sommes, il nous appartient de nous tourner vers ceux qui nous ont élus pour envisager les  suites à donner à l’adoption de ces directives. Pour nous, les ONG, l’attachement à un partenariat fort avec l’UNESCO  est indispensable et indiscutable, et en leur nom à toutes, je souhaite qu’il s’exerce dans le respect mutuel et dans la  plus parfaite des réciprocités. Je vous remercie.
59. The President:   Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen we have one request from the floor to the right to reply, so I give  the floor to the Permanent Delegate of Azerbaijan for two minutes. Ambassador, the floor is yours.
60. Mme Huseynova (Azerbaïdjan) :   Merci, Madame la Présidente. Notre maison, l’UNESCO, créée pour élever les défenses de la paix dans l’esprit  des hommes, œuvre inlassablement pour promouvoir, sous l’impulsion de notre respectée Directrice générale, un nouvel  humanisme, une culture de la paix et un dialogue interculturel, auxquels mon pays, comme vous le savez, s’efforce  d’apporter sa modeste contribution. Et il est d’autant regrettable d’entendre dans l’enceinte de cette vénérable maison  les propos d’un Ministre des affaires étrangères empreints de haine. Il est regrettable d’entendre un chef d’État parler,  ailleurs, de l’incompatibilité ethnique de deux peuples voisins, rejetant la responsabilité de la tragédie qui se poursuit  dans le Sud-Caucase sur le pays victime. Mais les faits sont là, incontestables. Depuis plus de 20 ans, à la suite de  l’agression miliaire de l’Arménie, un cinquième du territoire de l’Azerbaïdjan est occupée, des dizaines de milliers de  personnes sont tuées ou blessées, un million de personnes sont déplacées et réfugiées, et les ressources naturelles des  régions occupées sont pillées à un rythme effréné. Le territoire occupé, échappant à tout contrôle national ou  international, est devenu une zone de non-droit, une plaque tournante du trafic de drogue et d’organes humains. Et le  plus consternant, des sites historiques et culturels sont détruits, pour effacer toute trace de la présence millénaire des  Azerbaïdjanais, tant dans les territoires occupés en Azerbaïdjan qu’en Arménie elle-même. Mais nous sommes  optimistes. Je suis convaincue que bientôt le jour viendra où le vent de printemps chassera les démons du passé et où  les peuples voisins retrouveront la joie de vivre ensemble, et c’est avec plaisir que nous organiserons ici, à l’UNESCO,  avec mon collègue arménien, une grande fête de la paix et de l’amitié.
61. The President:   I thank you for your intervention. And now ladies and gentlemen we have exhausted the list of speakers at least  for this morning. It was again a very inspiring morning with interesting statements and new knowledge for everybody, and  I think we honoured each other and listened to each other.  First report by the Chairperson of the Credentials Committee  Premier rapport du Président du Comité de vérification des pouvoirs  Primer informe del Presidente del Comité de Verificación de Poderes  Первый доклад Председателя Комитета по проверке полномочий  لتقرير األول لرئيس لجنة فحص وثائق االعتماد»   全权证书委员会主席的第一次报告
62. The President:   So now I would like to hear the reports from the Credentials Committee and from the Administrative Commission.  I would like to give the floor first to His Excellency Ambassador Uffe Andreasen who will present the first report by the  Chairperson of the Credentials Committee. Ambassador, the floor is yours.
63.1 M. Andreasen (Danemark) (Président du Comité de vérification des pouvoirs) :   Madame la Présidente de la Conférence générale, Madame la Présidente du Conseil exécutif, Madame la  Directrice générale, Excellences, Mesdames et Messieurs, depuis la lecture du premier rapport du Comité de vérification  des pouvoirs en séance plénière, le 25 octobre 2011, le Comité a reçu les pouvoirs en bonne et due forme des  délégations des États membres dont les noms s’affichent à l’écran.
63.2 Le Comité a également reçu les pouvoirs provisoires des délégations des pays dont les noms s’affichent à  l’écran. Le Comité a également reçu les pouvoirs en bonne et due forme des délégations des pays dont la liste s’affiche  à l’écran, et qui avaient auparavant présenté des pouvoirs provisoires. Des pouvoirs en bonne et due forme ont été  présentés par les délégations des nouveaux Membres associés, dont les noms s’affichent à l’écran. Le Comité a  également reçu des pouvoirs provisoires de la délégation d’observateurs dont le nom s’affiche à l’écran. Conformément  à l'autorisation qui m'a été donnée par le Comité de vérification des pouvoirs, je propose que la Conférence générale  accepte ces pouvoirs. Les délégations d’États membres dont la liste s’affiche à l’écran n’ont pas encore présenté de  pouvoirs. Les délégations de Membres associés dont la liste s’affiche à l’écran n’ont pas encore présenté de pouvoirs.  La délégation d’observateurs dont le nom s’affiche à l’écran n’a pas encore présenté de pouvoirs. Je vous remercie.
64. The President:   Thank you very much. Are there any comments on this report? I see none. So may I consider that the General  Conference takes note of the first report by the Chairperson of the Credentials Committee? I see no objections. It is so  decided.   Report of the Administrative Commission on item 1.3 “Report by the Director-General on communications  received from Member States invoking the provisions of Article IV.C, paragraph 8(c), of the Constitution”  Rapport de la Commission administrative sur le point 1.3 « Rapport du Directeur général sur les  communications reçues des États membres invoquant les dispositions de l’article IV.C, paragraphe 8 (c), de  l’Acte constitutif »   Informe de la Comisión Administrativa sobre el punto 1.3 “Informe de la Directora General sobre las  comunicaciones recibidas de los Estados Miembros en las que se invoca lo dispuesto en el apartado c) del  párrafo 8 del Artículo IV.C de la Constitución”   Доклад Комиссии по административным вопросам по пункту 1.3 «Доклад Генерального директора о  сообщениях, полученных от государств-членов в связи с положениями пункта 8 (с) статьи IV.С Устава»     (جـ)٨: "تقرير المدير العام عن الرسائل الواردة من الدول األعضاء والتي تستند فيها إلى أحكام الفقرة ١,٣تقرير اللجنة اإلدارية بشأن البند  من المادرة الرابعة (جيم) من الميثاق التأسيسي"     行政委员会关于项目 1.3 的报告：“总干事关于会员国援引《组织法》第 IV.C 条第 8(c)款的来函的报告”
65. The President:   We now turn to the examination of the report of the Administrative Commission on item 1.3 “Report by the  Director-General on communications received from Member States invoking the provisions of Article IV.C,  paragraph 8 (c), of the Constitution”. Madam Chairperson of the Administrative Committee, you have the floor.
66.1 Ms Cummins (Barbados) (Chairperson of the ADM Commission – Finance and administration):   Merci bien, Madame. Madam President of the General Conference, Madam Chair of the Executive Board,  Madam Director-General, Excellencies, ladies and gentlemen. Allow me to submit to you the report of the work of the  Administrative Commission on item 1.3 “Report of the Director-General on communications received from Member  States invoking the provisions of Article IV.C, paragraph 8 (C), of the Constitution” (Documents 36 C/12 and Add.). In  accordance with Article 83 of the Rules of Procedure of the General Conference, the Administrative Commission  examined, from the beginning of its work, communications received from Member States invoking the provisions of  Article IV.C paragraph 8 (c) of the Constitution. In this context, I should like to remind you that the deadline for  submission of these communications was 28 October at 10 a.m. All Member States that had submitted their  communications by this date were permitted to continue to vote until such time that the General Conference, in the  plenary meeting, decided otherwise, on the basis of the report of the Administrative Commission. The Commission had  set up a working group in charge of the preparation of a detailed, case by case study as well as the submission of  recommendations. This Group, chaired by Lebanon, was composed of Chad, Chile and the Republic of Korea. The  Group met three times on 26, 27 and 28 October 2011.
66.2. Madam President, at the beginning of its work, on 26 October 2011 at 2 p.m., the working group noted that 12  Member States were at risk of losing their voting rights; these were Antigua and Barbuda, Central African Republic,  Comoros, Guinea-Bissau, Kyrgyzstan, Marshall Islands, Micronesia, Sao Tome and Principe, Sierra Leone, Somalia,  Sudan and Vanuatu. Of these 12 Member States, only four had presented, within the specified time limit, their  communications requesting authorization to vote, in conformity with Article IV, paragraph 8 (c) of the Constitution. These  were: Central African Republic, Kyrgyzstan, Somalia and Sudan. Madam President, the Administrative Commission after  an in-depth study of each case gave a favourable consideration to the requests of Kyrgyzstan and Somalia and  recommended that they retain the right to vote, while Sudan and Vanuatu paid the required minimum contribution to  preserve their voting rights. On the other hand, Madam President, the Administrative Commission was not in a position to  recommend that the Central African Republic be permitted to retain the right to vote. Indeed, the Commission considered  that the communication submitted by this Member State was not in accordance with the provisions of Article 83 of the  Rules of Procedure of the General Conference, and 30 C/Resolution 82. Consequently, the Central African Republic is  not recommended to take part in the voting process of the 36th session of the General Conference. Madam President, in  my capacity as Chairperson of the ADM Commission I would like to suggest that the following resolution which should  show now on your screen, concerning this agenda item be adopted in the plenary meeting without debate. I shall read  out the draft resolution.
66.3 The General Conference, Having considered the communications received from Central African Republic,  Kyrgyzstan, Somalia and Sudan invoking the terms of Article IV.C, paragraph 8(c), of the Constitution in order to obtain  permission to take part in the voting at its 36th session; Recalling the constitutional obligation of Member States to pay  their contributions fully and on time; Taking into account the history of payment of contributions in preceding years and  previous requests for voting rights in the case of each of these Member States, as well as the measures proposed by  them to eliminate their arrears; Noting that Sudan and Vanuatu had subsequent to their requests paid the amounts  required for voting rights in conformity with Article IV.C, paragraph 8(b), of the Constitution; Considers that the failure of  Kyrgyzstan and Somalia to pay contributions for an amount exceeding the total due for the current year and the  immediately preceding calendar year and/or instalments on payment plans is due to conditions beyond their control and  decides that these Member States may take part in the voting at the 36th session of the General Conference; Further  considers that the failure of Central African Republic to pay contributions for an amount exceeding the total due for the  current year and the immediately preceding calendar year and/or instalments on payment plans does not comply with the
254  conditions laid down in Rule 83 of the Rules of Procedure of this General Conference and consequently this Member  State may not take part in the voting at the 36th session of the General Conference; Invites the Director-General to report  to the 190th and 192nd sessions of the Executive Board as well as to the 37th session of the General Conference on the  actual position concerning all payment plans agreed upon between UNESCO and Member States in arrears with their  contributions. Thank you for your attention Madam President.
69. The President:   Thank you very much Madam. Dear colleagues, may I consider that the General Conference approves by  consensus the recommendations made by the Administrative Commission? I see no objection. It is so decided. Thank  you very much. Now I would like to give the floor to the Secretary of the General Conference to make a statement. The  floor is yours.
70. The Secretary:   Thank you, Madam President. Madam President, following the report by the Chairperson of the Administrative  Commission on the communications received from Member States invoking provisions of Article IV.C, paragraph 8(c) of  the Constitution, that the General Conference has just received, I shall now read the list of the eight Member States that  according to the Constitutional provisions will not have the right to vote at this 36th session of the General Conference:  Antigua and Barbuda, Central African Republic, Comoros, Guinea-Bissau, Marshall Islands, Federal States of Micronesia,  São Tome and Principe, Sierra Leone. In addition, Dominica does not have the right to vote at present; awaiting  presentation of valid credentials. Thank you Madam.
71. The President:   Thank you very much. And now we have finished our work for the morning and I am looking forward to  welcoming you again at 3 o’clock.  The meeting rose at 1.15 p.m.  La séance est levée à 13 h 15  Se levanta la sesión a las 13.15  Заседание закрывается в 13.15  بعد الظهر ١,١٥رفعت اسلسة يف الساعة    会议于 13 时 15 分结束