14  Item 1: ORGANIZATION OF THE SESSION (continued)  Point 1 : ORGANISATION DE LA SESSION (suite)  Punto 1: ORGANIZACIÓN DE LA REUNIÓN (continuación)  Пункт 1: ОРГАНИЗАЦИЯ СЕССИИ (продолжение)  ) اتابع: تنظيم الدورة (١البند     项目 1：届会的组织（续）  Item 1.5: Election of the President and Vice-Presidents of the General Conference and of the Chairpersons, Vice- Chairpersons and Rapporteurs of the commissions and committees   Point 1.5 : Élection du président et des vice-présidents de la Conférence générale, ainsi que des présidents,  vice-présidents et rapporteurs des commissions et comités  Punto 1.5: Elección del Presidente y los Vicepresidentes de la Conferencia General, y de los Presidentes,  Vicepresidentes y Relatores de las comisiones y comités  Пункт 1.5: Выборы Председателя и заместителей Председателя Генеральной конференции, а также  председателей, заместителей председателей и докладчиков комиссий и комитетов  انتخاب رئيس المؤتمر العام ونواب الرئيس ورؤساء اللجان ونواب رؤسائها ومقرريها:١,٥البند    项目 1.5：选举大会主席和副主席以及各委员会主席、副主席和报告人   Election of the President of the 36th session of the General Conference  Élection du président de la 36e session de la Conférence générale  Elección del Presidente de la 36ª reunión de la Conferencia General  Выборы Председателя 36-й сессии Генеральной конференции   انتخاب رئيس الدورة السادسة والثالثين للمؤتمر العام 选举大会第三十六届会议主席
1.1 The Temporary President:   Ladies and gentlemen, delegates, I declare the second plenary meeting open. Distinguished delegates, before  we begin, I would like to give a special and warm welcome to His Excellency Mr Pál Schmitt, President of the Republic of  Hungary, who is with us today in the room.   (Applause)
1.2 We shall now examine, under item 1.5, the election of the President of the 36th session of the General  Conference. The related documents are 36 C/NOM/1 and 36 C/NOM/1 Add. I will now call upon His Excellency Mr David  Hamadziripi, Chairperson of the Nominations Committee, to present the recommendations of the Committee concerning  the President of the 36th session of the General Conference. Mr Chairperson, you have the floor, Sir.
2. Mr Hamadziripi (Zimbabwe) (Chairperson of the Nominations Committee):   Thank you, Mr President. The Nominations Committee held its first meeting this morning during which it  examined the recommendation of the Executive Board on the subject of the President of the 36th session of the General  Conference. The recommendations of the Nominations Committee are contained in document 36 C/NOM/1 and
36 C/NOM/1 Add. The Nominations Committee decided to recommend that the General Conference approve the  candidature of Ms Katalin Bogyay of Hungary as the President of the 36th session of the General Conference.  (Applause)
3.1 The Temporary President:   Ladies and gentlemen, I see that this proposal is largely supported and I am therefore happy to proclaim the  election of Her Excellency Ms Katalin Bogyay from Hungary as President of the 36th session of the General Conference.  It is so decided.
3.2 The Temporary President:   Distinguished colleagues, I will always remember the first time I met this vivacious and gregarious young lady  shortly after her arrival at UNESCO. Her contagious laugh and broad smile created immediate chemistry between us.  She served as one of the Vice-Presidents during the 35th General Conference and when called upon to take the chair in  my absence, she performed with panache. Katalin’s energy knows no bounds and my only fear is that she might  endeavour to out-Katalin Katalin. I can attest to the fact that she welcomes challenges and will leave no stone unturned  in order to accomplish her objectives. And now, ladies and gentlemen, I am certain that there is great rejoicing among  the fairer sex, at least, that these three competent women are now at the helm of UNESCO. Let me make it clear that I  am not a misogynist, but I had a sense of foreboding, so I called upon that inimitable connoisseur of women, Mr William  Shakespeare, who described his women characters as “strong and outspoken, still ultimately yielding to male power, but  firm and cunning enough to outwit the opposite sex in the most critical situations”. Men, a word to the wise is sufficient.  Dear Katalin, I could think of no one who is more capable than you to assume this role at such a time as this. You have  destroyed the myth regarding beautiful women and brains. You remind me of the incomparable biblical Persian Queen  Esther who defied the King’s edict in order to save her people from annihilation. I will be standing in the wings to cheer  you on as you make history. I wish to thank you sincerely for your kind hospitality and support during my tenure.
15  Congratulations for a well-deserved honour, and above all make sure that you enjoy the ride. I now give the floor to the  Chair of the Executive Board.
4.1 Ms Mitrofanova (Russian Federation, Chair of the Executive Board):   Thank you very much, Your Excellency. Your Excellency, President of the Republic of Hungary, Mr Pál Schmitt,  distinguished delegates, it is my great pleasure to express on behalf of the Members of the Executive Board and on my  own behalf our heartfelt congratulations to Her Excellency Ms Katalin Bogyay, Permanent Delegate of Hungary, on her  election as the President of the 36th session of the General Conference. Dear Katalin, I know you as an admirable  ambassador of your country and as a friend. Since you came to UNESCO, you have proved yourself as a person who  knows all its problems and challenges. This was fully recognized first by the Member States of your regional group when  you were elected to its chair. And now your professional path, competence and well-earned credibility grant you  international recognition in the office of President of the 36th session of the General Conference. Your election is  naturally to be considered an act of acknowledgement by UNESCO Member States of the indisputable contribution that  your country – Hungary – has made to the various activities of UNESCO since it joined the Organization in 1948. Madam  President, I am sure that your organizational skills and international experience will reinforce the cooperation of the three  UNESCO organs. The work of the Executive Board will benefit considerably from the specific initiatives you will propose  to move forward within UNESCO’s fields of competence. I am certain, as is the case of all of us, that under your  leadership, the 36th session of the General Conference will be successfully carried out, and that all of the necessary and  important decisions will be duly taken. It also concerns further preparations for the 37th session, the significance of which  we already can see, since it will define UNESCO's programming transition to a new C/4 and C/5 cycle. Dear Katalin, I  wish you every success and great cooperation for the coming years. I trust that your wisdom and adherence to the ideals  of UNESCO will support and reinforce your action in taking up the challenges ahead.
4.2 Now, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of all Board Members, let me address sincere gratitude to Mr Davidson  Hepburn, Permanent Delegate of the Bahamas, for his outstanding leadership in performing the work of the General  Conference as the President of its 35th session. Dear Ambassador, I must say that you are among the most worthy  representatives of your country, because you were with those who served your country, your people and the people of  colonies to win their own identity, their political sovereignty and their place among the nations. Always committed to the  peaceful development and harmonious coexistence of world societies, you were close to UNESCO’s ideals even before  your country became a Member in 1981, exactly thirty years ago. Much later, you were deservedly elected as the first  President of the General Conference of UNESCO from a Caribbean State. Owing to your vigorous action in securing the  commitment of the international community to the destiny of the small island developing States, this topic has gained  particularly great visibility in Board sessions throughout the past biennium. I am sincerely grateful for the wise comments,  appropriate quotations and inspiring advice with which you “spiced up” the work of the Board. We know that you are not  leaving UNESCO, as there is much that maintains the link. Thus, the Organization and its governing bodies can always  rely on your knowledge and constantly invaluable contribution to their activity. Your Excellency, yes, “you did it your way”.  And you did it very well. I wish you continued success and new exciting achievements as you further resolutely promote  UNESCO ideals. Thank you very much.
5. The Temporary President:    Thank you very much, Madam Chair, for those wonderful words, but I am always reminded of that marvellous  statement, “Beware of Greeks bearing gifts.” So, I will keep that in mind. I am now pleased to give the floor to the  Director-General for her remarks.
6.1 The Director-General:    Thank you very much, Mr President.  (The Director-General continues in French)
6.2 Excellence, Monsieur le Président de la République de Hongrie, Excellences, Mesdames et Messieurs, c’est un  plaisir et un honneur de me joindre au concert de félicitations adressées à Son Excellence Mme Katalin Bogyay,  Ambassadrice et Représentante permanente de la Hongrie auprès de l’UNESCO, pour son élection aux fonctions de  Présidente de la 36e session de la Conférence générale de l’UNESCO. Cette Organisation a la chance d’avoir bénéficié  des qualités de meneur et de la haute stature morale de l’Ambassadeur, M. Davidson L. Hepburn. Nous sommes  doublement gratifiés par votre élection à la tête de la Conférence générale, Madame l’Ambassadrice Bogyay, ma chère  amie.  (La Directrice générale poursuit en anglais)
6.3 Madam President, your career, I would say, is stellar – a critic, a film-maker, a television presenter, a writer, an  ambassador and a State Minister and now President of the General Conference of UNESCO. All of this shows your deep  engagement with international cooperation in culture and education. It highlights your unique ability to mobilize people  and to create common spaces. It points especially to your clear vision of the power of culture to unify peoples and com- munities. You bring all of this to the Presidency of the General Conference. You bring also – and this is just as important  -- your deep passion for people, for discussion and debate, for art and culture, for advancing UNESCO’s values and  mandate. Speaking in the name of the Organization, I wish to say how much we look forward to working with you  throughout the next two years. You may rest assured of our continual support and assistance to you over this important  period.  (The Director-General continues in French)
6.4 Je me tourne maintenant vers le Président de la 35e session de la Conférence générale, Monsieur  l’Ambassadeur Davidson L. Hepburn. Cher ami, parmi tout ce que vous avez accompli pour cette Organisation, il y a une
16  chose qui me tient beaucoup à cœur parce qu’elle témoigne de l’essence même de notre Organisation et de l’esprit qui  nous anime : comme Madame la Présidente du Conseil exécutif l’a mentionné il y a quelques minutes, vous avez donné  une voix aux petits États insulaires en développement et, à travers eux, à tous ceux qui n’osent pas toujours parler. Et  quelle voix ! Vous nous l’avez encore montré tout à l’heure avec votre interprétation de My Way. Une voix, je dirais non  seulement de talent, mais aussi d’intelligence. Une voix puissante, une voix qui invite chacun à faire entendre la sienne.  (La Directrice générale poursuit en anglais)
6.5 And then your voice, Mr President, has helped to change this Organization. Your leadership has been vital at a  time of global change and major movement inside UNESCO. You have guided us with vision and balance. You have  demonstrated that no single country can answer global challenges alone and that we all must contribute, rich and poor,  big and small. This has always been your message. With this, dear President of the General Conference, you have  helped to revitalize our mandate and to raise our flag higher than it was. More than anything, you have inspired us all  with the values that lie at the heart of UNESCO and the United Nations. Every individual, every country, has a right to  equality and dignity. Each must be judged on their own merits, not by their economic or political power but by the power  of their ideas, by the strength of their rights, by the light of their culture. For this, I am especially grateful to you. Thank  you very much, Mr President. And now, it is my great honour to award you with the golden medal of the Organization, a  symbol also of your leadership.  (Applause)
7.1 The Temporary President:   I would like to thank the Director-General for those very kind words that you said about me. I think that  everybody in this Organization knows that I never become speechless but when I hear these things, it is difficult for me to  talk. I am going to make some brief remarks here and in connection with some things that have been said or what I have  experienced during my stay here. My dear colleagues, “When you come to the end of a perfect day, and you sit alone  with your thoughts; When the chimes ring out with a carol gay; For the joy that this day has brought […]” are lines from a  popular song by C. Jacobs which prompt me to reflect on the past two years of my term as President of the General  Conference. Frankly, this bittersweet moment reminds me of the phrase from Shakespeare’s Romeo and Juliette,  “Parting is such sweet sorrow”. Of course, I do not plan to be maudlin here. However, this paradoxical statement  supports the fact that although “parting” connotes separation, the “sorrow” becomes pleasing and it heightens the joy of  past shared memories. It remains for me, then, to simply express my gratitude and appreciation to all of you for helping  to make my odyssey a very special and memorable one indeed. I will not make the mistake of calling names since each  one of you, in turn, played a significant role in the process. For example, I will cherish the memory of the chats I have  had with the cleaning and maintenance staff in the corridors and in the lifts. I will miss the cheerful greetings from the  security personnel who made sure that I was protected at all times. Protocol was always vigilant in making sure that I  was given proper recognition. Let me also commend the management and staff of the restaurant for their professional,  efficient and courteous services over the years. Given the multilateral nature of our Organization, none of our  deliberations could have succeeded without the dedication and commitment of the interpreters, translators, précis-writers,  copiers, room clerks and the staff of the television studio who labour tirelessly in a windowless environment. The  chauffeurs were extremely respectful and pleasant. My personal driver, for example, is one of the finest persons I have  ever met. I am proud to call him a friend. My secretary can be described as my guardian angel who watched over me  and kept me from uninvited visitors. Whatever I say about my personal assistant would fall far short of my expressions of  gratitude for his selfless attention. Suffice it to say that any success that I may have had was due to his savoir-faire.
7.2 I am grateful to the Secretary and staff of the Executive Board who were not afraid to make changes to the  agenda. They kept the organs of the house fine-tuned. I enjoyed my relationship with the Assistant Directors-General  and Directors who were always available to answer my queries. The Members of the Executive Board are to be  commended for their invaluable work. The Chair of the Board demonstrated sound leadership skills, which should be  emulated by her successors. Thank you very much, Madam, for your leadership. My dear Director-General, Irina, it has  been a pleasure to work with you over the past two years. We came on the scene at the same time and have both made  history against great odds. I am proud that I played a major role in facilitating your inaugural process. In many ways, we  have formed a bond which will continue to grow stronger. I will always remember you in my thoughts and prayers that  you would continue to strive to reform UNESCO and make it worthy of the title of lead agency in its areas of competence.  I would be remiss if I did not give special thanks to the governments of the several countries who extended generous  invitations to participate in their programmes. On those occasions I had the pleasure of interacting with young children  and students who were anxious to learn about UNESCO and the Bahamas. Et la pièce de résistance, to you, my  colleagues, your smiles and kind comments gave me the encouragement I needed to perform my duties. Your support  has been invaluable and I trust that I have met your expectations.
7.3 Last but not least, I must express my gratitude to the Bahamas Government, and the Caribbean Community  (CARICOM) as a whole, for their unanimous support of my candidature. Based on the foregoing, I am demitting my post  knowing that the future of UNESCO is secure. Spasiba bol’shoye. Gracias. Shukran. Xièxie. Merci beaucoup. Grazie.  Danke schön. Muito obrigado. Thank you very much.  (Applause)
7.4 It is now my honour to invite the President of the 36th session of the General Conference to take her seat.
8.1 The President of the 36th session of the General Conference (Ms Bogyay, Hungary):   Throughout my whole life, I have really always hoped to find a key to the person standing in front of me, and for  them to trust me, to believe in me, and I knew that for this to happen, I first had to tell His or Her Excellency, or whoever  he or she was, “I am interested in you. I would like to understand you. I would like to share your experiences.” And after  he or she finished speaking, I would hope to introduce myself and to share my experiences with her or him. Now, here I  am standing in front of 193 Member States and observers so dear to my heart and I feel the trust. I have to tell you, I will  always cherish this moment in my life. It is probably what I have been working towards throughout my whole life. What I  would like to promise you is that I will always be open. I will always be there to listen and to understand. I always think  about Confucius, who said, “Life is really simple, but we insist on making it complicated”. If we look at each other, if we  really listen, if we start to talk and to listen, we will really start communicating with each other and life would be much  simpler.
8.2 Before anything else, please allow me to dedicate this special moment of my life to my husband Tamás, who  believed in me before I believed in myself. He has given me freedom and supported me during my incredible journey  over the past 30 years with his shining intellect, vision and humour. And of course, I would like to dedicate this moment  to my son, Tamás László, who gives me constant sunshine. He taught me what it means to be responsible throughout  your whole life and also what unconditional love is. And, of course, I really feel that, somewhere, my dear parents are  also smiling down at me, “Okay, lovely girl. You did it”. So, thank you very much for being with me. Now, the official bit is  coming.
8.3 Your Excellency, dear Mr President of Hungary, Mr Pál Schmitt, what a great honour it is for me to welcome the  President of my country. Thank you so much for coming.
8.4 Mr President of the 35th session of the General Conference, my dear friend, Mr Davidson Hepburn, wherever  you sit, you will be my star. Madam Chair of the Executive Board, dear Eleonora Mitrofanova, Madam Director-General,  dearest Irina Bokova, Excellencies, fellow ambassadors, distinguished delegates, honourable representatives of  intergovernmental organizations, distinguished representatives of non-governmental organizations, civil society,  members of the international press, dear friends, dear colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, my election as President of the
36th session of UNESCO’s General Conference has granted me a position of great privilege. May I at the very outset  express my sincere gratitude for your confidence in my capacity to lead this body and my ability to facilitate its important  work. I should like to thank Electoral Group II for its unanimous decision to propose me for this position, as well as all the  other electoral groups and the European Union for its full support. I should like to thank the Executive Board and all of  you today for electing me unanimously. The fact that I have your full support only enhances my deep sense of  responsibility. I am also very grateful to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Hungary, which, under the guidance of Foreign  Minister Mr János Martonyi and Under-Secretary Mr János Hóvári and their very hard-working team, spearheaded a  strong external campaign to convince Member States to support my candidature. Finally, I am deeply grateful for my  lovely colleagues on the team of the Permanent Delegation of Hungary to UNESCO.
8.5 I know that your trust is placed not only in me but also in my country, Hungary, which has been an active and  creative Member of UNESCO since 1948, channelling all its expertise and knowledge into the work of many UNESCO  commissions and committees. We also have already had the honour of previously serving as President of the General  Conference in 1974, as well as Chair of the Executive Board, in 1997. For Hungarians, UNESCO’s mandates are very  close to our hearts. I come from a land where our internationally acclaimed thinkers, educators, artists and explorers, not  to mention our freedom fighters and Nobel Prize winners, have paved the way for the betterment of the people, not only  in my country, not only in Europe, but in the whole world. Our great composer Béla Bartók said: “My guiding philosophy  has always been the idea of different nations uniting in brotherhood, in spite of all the wars and hostility. I have tried to  serve the aims of this idea, as best as I can, in my music! So for that reason, I do not shrink away from any influences”.  We Hungarians have always tried to preserve our own culture, yet were forced to absorb many other cultural influences,  too. Because of our history and geographical position in Europe, in the end, I feel this cross-fertilization with others has  proved to be our strength. It has enabled us to be bold and creative like another of our great musicians, Liszt Ferenc  (Franz Liszt) who, whilst considering himself a Magyar from cradle to grave, recognized that he had developed his  creativity through his contact with the world at large and that his music was at the service of all humankind. Throughout  his career, he travelled more widely than any musician of his time and in his final years wrote: “My only remaining  ambition as a musician is to hurl my lance into the boundless realm of the future”. This is what we at UNESCO are  aiming to do: placing our collective skills at the service of humanity and working together towards a more meaningful and  sustainable future.
8.6 I am very happy to welcome to our family two new Associate Members, Curaçao and Sint Maarten.
8.7 Excellencies, ladies and gentlemen, I wish to address my heartfelt thanks to His Excellency Mr Davidson  Hepburn, President of the 35th session of the General Conference and Ambassador from the Bahamas, who has shown  me the path of fairness, equilibrium, friendship and wisdom. He has also reminded me to be ‘terribly well’ at all times! I  highly value his sense of commitment, his excellent accomplishments, the beauty of his personality and his constant
18  support since my arrival at UNESCO, which coincided with his taking on the presidency two years ago. And my dear  friend, I promise you, I will do it “my way”! To Madam Chair of the Executive Board, dear Ambassador Eleonora  Mitrofanova, I want to express my profound gratitude and appreciation, both as a friend and as a colleague in Electoral  Group II, for the sensitivity, skills and professionalism you have demonstrated as leader of the Executive Board and for  being instrumental in proposing me for this very job. I have always been inspired by your combined skills of diplomacy,  frankness and strength, which are so often required in our line of work. To Madam Director-General, dear friend Irina  Bokova, let me tell you how much I like and enjoy the swing you have created in this House! I love how you can be full of  imagination, determination, energy and strong leadership and, at the same time, how you can also be humble, ready to  embrace, and unashamed of the female touch. I was so proud to welcome the first woman Director-General to this  House, who also happens to come from the same part of the world as me. I would like to remind everybody about the  message of the Director-General at our last Executive Board meeting, namely, that the aim of the ongoing reform is to  allow the Organization “to keep up the pace of history and to shape its course, to ensure that UNESCO plays its rightful  role, that we are visible and that we respond to the needs of Member States”. I can assure you, Madam, that I fully  support your vision. I feel inspired and motivated by the infectious excitement that is shared by all the Members of the  Board. I will do my utmost to be a real bridge between the governing bodies, the Member States, yourselves and the  Secretariat. With the help of clear communication, we must work to maintain the trust between the Secretariat and the  Member States. I would like to further develop the General Conference’s role in strategy and policy formulation as well as  to streamline its activities. I will also push towards greater participation of all Member States in our work because I truly  believe that only by working together can we achieve our goals. We are one team. Through lively and innovative  communication, we will ensure that UNESCO becomes more visible throughout the world.
8.8 Honourable guests, fellow ambassadors, each of my predecessors must have felt thrilled to assume this  honourable position, and rightly so. Each session of the General Conference, since UNESCO’s birth nearly 70 years ago,  has been marked by tremendous changes occurring in the world. The Organization has coped successively with the  profound effects of war, the dawn of the nuclear age, the advent of the Iron Curtain, post-war reconstruction and  integration, national self-determination movements and decolonization. So change is nothing new for UNESCO.  Nevertheless, in terms of the enormity of the global challenges that confront us, as well as the current opportunity to  address those challenges, we live in truly historic times. There are reasons for both hope and despair. I personally feel  that since the end of the Cold War, the times we are living in now are the most challenging. We are seeing a major shift  in the world economy, the causes and results of the Arab Spring, a global aspiration towards a free, open, correct life, the  sensitivity and boldness of the young people of our times, new chances for democracy in the world. But we also can  sense rising tension, radicalism, ruthless power to enforce special interests. A young man set himself on fire, but the fire  has not gone out yet. Clear communication, helping everyone to develop sustainable human development, “human  capabilities”, as Nobel Prize Laureate Amartya Sen from India would say, are key tasks for all of us. The availability of  education is a basic ground for human functioning, through which we have a choice for understanding and international  cooperation. As American statesman J. William Fulbright said, “In the long course of history, having people understand  your thought is much greater security than another submarine”. We have other pressing challenges to meet, namely to  achieve internationally agreed-upon development goals, especially those that fall squarely within the mandate of this  Organization. This will be difficult given the economies of many Member States. The clock is ticking. Only four years  remain until the deadline of 2015 for achieving the Millennium Development Goals (MDGs), as well as UNESCO’s own  Dakar goals of universal education and reduced levels of extreme poverty, hunger and disease.
8.9 Davidson Hepburn, in his 2009 acceptance speech, reminded us of UNESCO’s role as lead organization for the  United Nations Decade of Education for Sustainable Development. He expressed interest in the outcome of the  forthcoming United Nations Climate Conference in Copenhagen and in the importance of strong international cooperation  and solidarity in this field. Two years later, with the forthcoming United Nations Conferences at Durban and Rio (Rio+20),  it seems to me that we are now starting to have to come to terms with the effects of the unbridled pursuit of maximum  economic growth bringing ever-increasing and irreversible strains on the planet in all areas, and the need to add new  goals such as sustainability, well-being, solidarity and respect for cultural diversity to traditional goals such as liberty,  equality and fraternity as part of a global mission statement. The 2011 EFA Global Monitoring Report alerts us to another  global challenge which is rarely mentioned that demands an international response, namely the state of education in  conflict-affected States. The statistics are startling. Countries where there is armed conflict are among the farthest from  reaching the education for all (EFA) goals set in Dakar. Armed conflict is robbing 28 million children of an education by  exposing them to widespread sexual violence, targeted attacks on schools and other abuses. We at UNESCO need to  give serious consideration to this problem.
8.10 Excellencies, ladies and gentlemen, especially close to my heart is the unrelenting fight for gender equality on all  fronts. Women continue to be systematically disadvantaged according to the human development indicators. Despite  their tremendous potential to foster peace, nurture reconciliation and contribute to sustainable development, women  everywhere in the world continue to be denied equal access to basic goods and services, to education, employment and  healthcare. Women are particularly vulnerable in their role as primary nurturers in the face of natural disasters and as  victims of rape in the event of armed conflict. The empowerment of women and girls is both a great moral imperative of  our times as well as an absolute precondition for meeting internationally agreed-upon development goals. Fortunately,  women around the world have increasingly been seen in high-level political and decision-making positions. Certainly with  my election, we now have three women at the helm of the key sectors of this Organization. You have sent a very  powerful message to the world that UNESCO is serious about its commitment to promoting gender equality and  recognizing the abilities of women. More importantly, you have sent a message to hundreds of millions of girls and  women whose voices and hopes are currently unheard, that they too can aim high and realize their dreams. Our  message from the top, however strong it may be, will not suffice. As Member States of UNESCO, we must work together  towards transforming gender equality from an aspiration into a reality at all levels everywhere.
8.11 Distinguished delegates, I have enumerated some of the challenges that set the background to our current work.  Together these challenges call for multilateral solutions and remind us that the tasks for which UNESCO was created are  yet to be accomplished. We must ensure that UNESCO is versatile enough to cope with the rapidly transforming  environment while maintaining its steadfast commitment to its mandate of peace. More specifically, we need to focus on  our comparative strengths while coordinating with external partners on finding common strategies. The critical role of  science and technology within an ethical framework for developing countries, in particular in Africa, must be emphasized.  We need to realize our Organization’s constitutional mandates. These include using dialogue to promote peace and the  rapprochement of cultures, as well as supporting reconciliation and other measures that impart tolerance and mutual  understanding. Given the enormity of the task, inertia and inaction are simply not an option.
8.12 Excellencies, ladies and gentlemen, I was brought up behind the Iron Curtain in a little Hungarian village called  Mór. It lies in a valley between the Bakony and Vértes, two lovely mountains, and is famous for its huge vineyards and  wine-making tradition. My father was the local doctor and he taught me: “If someone needs you, you have to go whatever  hour of the night or day. There are no working hours”. In this village, people from different nationalities and ethnic  backgrounds used to live together. My father never looked at their colour, language, clothing or traditions and went  whenever and wherever he was needed. His example has shaped my sense of responsibility. What I have also learned  through the years is that effective communication is not enough unless it is combined with genuine leadership, we simply  will not be able to push through the obstacles standing in our way and real change will not take place. As a European,  my education was influenced by the egocentric thinking of Descartes: “I think therefore I am”. Lately, however, I have felt  that much can be achieved by following the African concept of ubuntu which states: “I am human because I belong. I  participate.” A person with ubuntu is open and available to others and does not feel threatened by the apparent strengths  and abilities in others. People with ubuntu have the self-assurance that comes from knowing that they belong to a greater  whole. They feel diminished when others are tortured, humiliated or oppressed. As a Hungarian, I know only too well that  survival depends not on the individual but on the abilities of the collective. Here at UNESCO, we have a global  responsibility to lead by example. In these times of social and financial insecurity, in particular, we need to listen to all the  voices. It requires great creativity, persistence and strength in order to survive without losing one’s humanity, and the  smaller and poorer States have much to teach us. In order to work well together at UNESCO, let us develop ubuntu. All  nations have valuable contributions to make and together we can achieve more than individually.
8.13 So our question is: how can we make these ideas relevant in our everyday work? How can we honour one  other’s homeland, language and culture, participating together to make the world a better place for future generations?  We can start by emphasizing our cultural diversity rather than our cultural differences. Cultural diversity includes the  particular qualities that each nation brings to the expression of its identity. It enriches the greater whole and is something  to be celebrated. Cultural differences imply division and are often used as an excuse to explain why nothing can change.  I believe that cultural differences should never become an excuse for our inability to reach global understanding. We  must remind ourselves that there are no cultural differences in the fundamental values of human life. We all want to  belong and feel safe, to contribute and be appreciated, and to be able to provide for our children. We must teach our  children that the people of the world all have much more in common than not and that is what we should build on. I see  our world as a global cultural space, a multi-layered treasure, a magic box full of undiscovered jewels. The process of  inspiration followed by the creativity of people working together is, to me, the most beautiful aspect of this varied cultural  space. For a culture to open its doors wide, it must believe in its own strength, knowing that it is rich enough to nourish  other cultures, yet sensitive enough to benefit from foreign influences.
8.14 Excellencies, dear friends, I personally have always had a somewhat problematic perception of politics. I used to  say that I was more interested in the human motives underlying political decisions. I now realize that what I have always  been uncomfortable with is the inevitable existence of promoting only political interests. That is why I have become a firm  believer in what I call the art of cultural diplomacy. I would just like us to remind ourselves that UNESCO was established  “to contribute to peace and security by promoting collaboration among the nations through education, science and  culture in order to further universal respect for justice, for the rule of law and for the human rights and fundamental  freedoms which are affirmed for the peoples of the world, without distinction of race, sex, language or religion, by the  Charter of the United Nations”. If traditional diplomacy is seen as “hard”, cultural diplomacy is seen as “soft.” But the so- called soft power is not so soft after all because it channels wider, connective and human values. If traditional ”hard”  diplomacy is seen as prose, then ”soft” cultural diplomacy is poetry. The American poet William Carlos Williams wrote: “It  is difficult to get the news from poems, yet men die miserably every day from lack of what is found there”. He reminds us  that poetry may not be practical and straightforward but its less tangible attributes can lead to unexpected revelations  that enhance our lives. The poetry of diplomacy allows us to embrace the subconscious and our deepest most hidden  thoughts and feelings. It makes full use of intuition, lateral thinking and creativity which, in our troubled times, can lead to  surprising breakthroughs where traditional methods have failed. Maybe I feel so because I come from a land where  poetry has always played an important role in our lives. But maybe I feel this way because I am a woman. And we  women like to deliver ideas, visions, tasks … and babies! And we would rather die than see our sons killed or our  daughters widowed. So, for this reason, we see the goal and we do not mind the change in direction. I hope that the kind  of poetry of diplomacy that we can reach in our everyday life can be a guiding star and a light for our life here at  UNESCO.
8.15 Ladies and gentlemen, Your Excellencies, the General Conference is a celebration because we are celebrating  each other. So, do not forget the joie de vivre. Always have a smile for each other. But please, mean it. Merci beaucoup  pour votre attention. Thank you very much for listening.  (Applause)
9. The President:   Your Excellencies, ladies and gentlemen, I shall not sing but I do have a surprise for you before we start the  serious work, because I thought: how could I summarize? And because I have always had this strong relationship with  music, I have asked my very, very dear friend, a real legend of our times, who flew from Beijing yesterday and is flying  back to Shanghai tonight, Tamás Vásáry, to come. The maestro can summarize everything that we feel is important in  our life. First, he will play Liszt’s “Concert Paraphrase on Rigoletto” which talks about the importance of intercultural  dialogue, diversity and inspiration. Then, of course, he will play the famous “Hungarian Rhapsody No. 15” by Liszt, which  he has played far and wide. And to end, just to remind ourselves how important it is for all of us to maintain our cultural  identity and roots, he will play a Béla Bartók piece, “An Evening in the Village”. Thank you very much, Tamás, for coming.  (Musical interlude)  Election of the Vice-Presidents of the 36th session of the General Conference   Élection des vice-présidents de la 36e session de la Conférence générale   Elección de los Vicepresidentes de la 36ª reunión de la Conferencia General  Выборы заместителей Председателя 36-й сессии Генеральной конференции  والثالثان للمؤتمر العام السادسةاةتخاب ةواب رةاس الدورة     选举大会第三十六届会议副主席
10. The President:   And now, ladies and gentlemen, we will proceed with item 1.5 of the agenda, and elect the Vice-Presidents of  the 36th session of the General Conference. The relevant documents are 36 C/NOM/1 and 36 C/NOM/1 Add. I call upon  His Excellency Mr David Hamadziripi, Chairperson of the Nominations Committee, to present the list of the 36 Member  States who are candidates for the posts of Vice-Presidents for this session.
11. Mr Hamadziripi (Zimbabwe) (Chairperson of the Nominations Committee):   Thank you very much, Madam President. Before we continue with item 1.5, I would like to congratulate you on  your election as President of the 36th session of the General Conference. You can certainly count on us, on my support  and that of the Nominations Committee, as you carry out your duties and responsibilities throughout the term of your  presidency. Madam President, the Nominations Committee recommended at its meeting this morning the election to the  posts of Vice-Presidents of the 36th session of the General Conference, of the following Member States: Albania,  Australia, Azerbaijan, Belgium, Brazil, Canada, China, Croatia, Democratic People’s Republic of Korea, Democratic  Republic of the Congo, Denmark, Egypt, El Salvador, France, Germany, Grenada, Kenya, Kuwait, Lao People’s  Democratic Republic, Latvia, Lebanon, Madagascar, Montenegro, Morocco, Nigeria, Pakistan, Peru, Saint Lucia, Saudi  Arabia, Senegal, Serbia, Thailand, United States of America, Bolivarian Republic of Venezuela, Yemen and Zambia. I  therefore submit, Madam President, this recommendation of the Nominations Committee concerning the thirty-six Vice- Presidents of this General Conference for the plenary’s consideration. Thank you.
12. The President:   Thank you, Mr Chairperson. I now submit the list proposed by the Nominations Committee for approval by the  General Conference. I see no objections. I hereby declare that the Heads of the Delegations of the Member States on  the list that was just read out are elected Vice-Presidents of the 36th session of the General Conference.  Congratulations.  (Applause)  Establishment of the commissions and committees  Constitution des commissions et comités  Constitución de las comisiones y los comités  Учреждение комиссий и комитетов   تشتال اللجان    成立各专门委员会和委员会
13. The President:   Ladies and gentlemen, we shall now elect the chairpersons of the commissions and committees for this session  of the General Conference. If you allow me, we shall examine as a whole the proposal of the Nominations Committee for  the chairpersons of the commissions and committees. I now give the floor to the Chairperson of the Nominations  Committee, Mr Hamadziripi, to present the recommendations of the Committee for the posts of chairpersons of the seven  commissions. The floor is yours, Sir.
14. Mr Hamadziripi (Zimbabwe) (Chairperson of the Nominations Committee):   Thank you, Madam President. I have the honour to inform the General Conference that the Nominations  Committee’s recommendations regarding the chairpersons of the commissions and committees of the 36th session of  the General Conference are as follows: the General Questions, Programme Support and External Relations Commission  (PRX), Mr Amadou Maïlélé from Niger; the Education Commission (ED), Mr Rudolphe Imhoof of Switzerland; the Natural  Sciences Commission (SC) , Mr Montri Chulavatnatol of Thailand; the Social and Human Sciences Commission (SHS),  Mr Iván José Avila Belloso of the Bolivarian Republic of Venezuela; the Culture Commission (CLT), Mr Nureldin Satti of  Sudan; the Communication and Information Commission (CI), Mr Ľudovít Molnár of Slovakia; the Administrative  Commission (ADM), Ms Alexandra Cummins of Barbados; the Legal Committee (LEG), Ms Victoria Hallum of New
21  Zealand. You will recall this morning that the General Conference already endorsed the recommendations on the  Chairperson of the Credentials Committee (CRE), that is Mr Uffe Andreasen of Denmark, and, of course, my own  nomination as Chairperson of the Nominations Committee (NOM). Thank you, Madam President.
15. The President:   Thank you very much, Mr Chairperson. If there are no objections to the proposal by the Nominations Committee,  I declare elected Mr Maïlélé, Chairperson of the PRX Commission; Mr Imhoof, Chairperson of the Education  Commission; Mr Chulavatnatol, Chairperson of the Natural Sciences Commission; Mr Avila Belloso, Chairperson of the  SHS Commission; Mr Satti, Chairperson of the Culture Commission; Mr Molnár, Chairperson of the Communication and  Information Commission; Ms Cummins, Chairperson of the Administrative Commission. Ladies and gentlemen, let me  congratulate you all and let me also remind you that, in accordance with Rule 41, you are all now members of the  General Committee of the General Conference which will convene, for its first meeting, tomorrow morning between 8.30  and 9.15 a.m. in Room X. You will receive, later today, the formal invitation together with the draft agenda for the meeting.  Establishment of the Legal Committee  Constitution du Comité juridique  Constitución del Comité Jurídico   Учреждение Юридического комитета   تشتال اللج ة القاةوةاة 成立 法律委员会
16. The President:   Your Excellencies, distinguished delegates, on the subject of the Legal Committee, let me recall that following  Rule 36.2 of the Rules of Procedure, the Legal Committee shall elect its own Chairperson. Let me also recall that the  Executive Board, at its 186th session, recommended Ms Hallum of New Zealand as Chairperson of the Committee. The  Committee will hold its first meeting tomorrow at 10 a.m. in Room IV. I wish to recall that the Chairperson of the Legal  Committee is also a member of the General Committee. I would like thank the Chairperson of the Nominations  Committee for the wonderful job and for all the hard decisions which have been taken and presented. Thank you very  much.  Item 1.2: First report of the Credentials Committee  Point 1.2 : Premier rapport du Comité de vérification des pouvoirs  Punto 1.2: Primer informe del Comité de Verificación de Poderes  Пункт 1.2: Первый доклад Комитета по проверке полномочий  : التقرير األول للجنة فحص وثائق االعتماد١,٢البند    项目 1.2：全权证书委员会的第一次报告
17. The President:   Ladies and gentlemen, we now need to examine the first report of the Credentials Committee. But first, allow me  to congratulate His Excellency Mr Andreasen of Denmark on his election as Chairperson of the Committee. It will be a  pleasure working with you again, Sir. You have the floor.
18.1 M. Andreasen (Danemark) (Président du Comité de vérification des pouvoirs) :   Merci. Madame la Présidente de la Conférence générale, félicitations. Madame la Présidente du Conseil exécu- tif, Madame la Directrice générale, Excellences, Mesdames et Messieurs, à sa première séance plénière, tenue le
25 octobre 2011, la Conférence générale de l’Organisation des Nations Unies pour l’éducation, la science et la culture a,  conformément aux articles 26 et 32 de son Règlement intérieur, constitué pour sa 36e session un Comité de vérification  des pouvoirs composé des États membres suivants : Azerbaïdjan, Canada, Danemark, Égypte, Namibie, Népal, Répu- blique démocratique du Congo, République bolivarienne du Venezuela et Yémen.
18.2 Le Comité de vérification des pouvoirs a tenu sa première séance à 12 heures ce même jour. Le Comité a élu à  sa présidence Son Excellence M. Uffe Andreasen, Ambassadeur, Représentant du Danemark au Conseil exécutif de  l’UNESCO. À la demande du Président, la Conseillère juridique a informé le Comité des critères à appliquer pour décider  de la validité des pouvoirs présentés aux termes de l'article 23 du Règlement intérieur de la Conférence générale. Cet  article dispose que les pouvoirs des délégués et des suppléants émanent soit du chef de l’État ou du gouvernement, soit  du ministre des affaires étrangères ou d'un autre ministre autorisé par le ministre des affaires étrangères à délivrer des  pleins pouvoirs. Le Conseiller juridique a également expliqué la signification de l'expression « pouvoirs provisoires »  selon une pratique établie par la Conférence générale de l’UNESCO, et ce qu'elle impliquait. Le Secrétariat a ensuite  informé le Comité de l'état des pouvoirs qu'il avait reçus jusqu'alors. Le Comité a conclu que les pouvoirs des États  membres suivants avaient été émis en conformité avec l'article 23 du Règlement intérieur de la Conférence générale,  c'est-à-dire qu'ils émanaient soit du chef de l'État ou du gouvernement, soit du ministre des affaires étrangères ou d'un  autre ministre autorisé par le ministre des affaires étrangères à délivrer des pleins pouvoirs. Il a en conséquence  considéré que les délégations des États membres dont la liste s’affiche sur l’écran étaient dûment accréditées (tous les  noms des États membres, Membres associés et délégations d’observateurs affichés à l’écran sont indiqués dans le  document publié sous la cote 36 C/66). Le Comité recommande que les délégations des États membres susmentionnés  soient autorisées à participer aux travaux de la 36e session de la Conférence générale.
18.3 Les délégations des États membres dont les noms s’affichent sur l’écran ont présenté des pouvoirs sous forme  de notes, lettres ou autres documents émanant d'un ministre autre que le ministre des affaires étrangères et non  autorisé par ce dernier à délivrer des pleins pouvoirs, ou du chef d'une mission diplomatique, d'un délégué permanent  auprès de l'UNESCO ou d'un haut fonctionnaire du gouvernement. Le Comité propose que ces notes, lettres et autres  documents soient acceptés à titre de pouvoirs provisoires des délégations des États membres, sous réserve qu'elles  présentent ultérieurement des pouvoirs en bonne et due forme, et que, dans l'intervalle, ces délégations soient  autorisées à participer aux travaux de la 36e session de la Conférence générale.
18.4 Des pouvoirs en bonne et due forme ont été présentés par les délégations des Membres associés dont les  noms s’affichent sur l’écran. Des pouvoirs provisoires ont également été reçus de la délégation du Membre associé dont  le nom s’affiche sur l’écran. Le Comité a en outre reçu les pouvoirs en bonne et due forme établis au nom de la  délégation d’observateur dont le nom s’affiche sur l’écran. Les délégations des États membres dont les noms s’affichent  sur l’écran n’ont pas encore présenté de pouvoirs. Les délégations des Membres associés dont les noms s’affichent sur  l’écran n’ont pas encore présenté de pouvoirs. Les délégations d’observateurs dont les noms s’affichent sur l’écran n’ont  pas encore présenté de pouvoirs. Merci Madame le Présidente de la Conférence générale.
19. The President:   Thank you, Mr Chairperson. Let me congratulate you for your efficient work and the efficient work of your whole  Committee. Now, I would like to ask if there are any comments on this report from Member States. No? Thank you very  much. As I see no objections, I shall consider that the General Conference takes note of the first report of the  Credentials Committee.  Item 2: REPORTS ON THE ACTIVITIES OF THE ORGANIZATION, AND EVALUATION OF THE PROGRAMME  Point 2 : RAPPORTS SUR L’ACTIVITÉ DE L’ORGANISATION ET ÉVALUATION DU PROGRAMME   Punto 2: INFORMES SOBRE LAS ACTIVIDADES DE LA ORGANIZACIÓN Y EVALUACIÓN DEL PROGRAMA   Пункт 2: ДОКЛАДЫ О ДЕЯТЕЛЬНОСТИ ОРГАНИЗАЦИИ И ОЦЕНКА ПРОГРАММЫ   البرنامج وتقييم المنظمة أنشطة عن تقارير :٢ البند   项目 2: 关于本组织活动的报告和计划评估   Item 2.1: Report by the Director-General on the activities of the Organization in 2008-2009, presented by the  Chair of the Executive Board   Point 2.1 : Rapport de la Directrice générale sur l’activité de l’Organisation en 2008-2009, présenté par la  Présidente du Conseil exécutif   Punto 2.1: Informe de la Directora General sobre las actividades de la Organización en 2008-2009, presentado  por la Presidenta del Consejo Ejecutivo   Пункт 2.1: Доклад Генерального директора о деятельности Организации в 2008-209 гг., представляемый  Председателем Исполнительного совета     ، قدمته رئيسة المجلس التنفيذي٢٠٠٩-٢٠٠٨في عامي  المنظمة أنشطةعن  ةالعام ةتقرير المدير : ٢,١البند  项目 2.1： 由执行局主席提交的总干事关于本组织 2008--2009 年活动的报告  Item 2.2: Reports by the Executive Board on its own activities and on programme implementation    Point 2.2 : Rapports du Conseil exécutif sur ses activités et sur l’exécution du programme   Punto 2.2: Informes del Consejo Ejecutivo sobre sus actividades y sobre la ejecución del programa    Пункт 2.2: Доклады Исполнительного совета о своей деятельности и о выполнении программы   : تقارير المجلس التنفيذي عن أنشطته وعن تنفيذ البرنامج٢,٢البند      项目 2.2：执行局关于其活动和计划执行情况的报告
20. The President:   Ladies and gentlemen, we now come to the introduction to the general policy debate, and will start with item 2.1,  “Report of the Director-General on the activities of the Organization in 2008-2009, presented by the Chair of the  Executive Board”. The document pertaining to this item is 36 C/3. The Chair of the Executive Board, Ambassador  Mitrofanova, will also present item 2.2, “Reports by the Executive Board on its own activities and on programme  implementation”. The relevant document proposed for our attention is 36 C/9 Parts I and II. And now, I am pleased to call  on the Chair of the Executive Board to give her presentation. Ms Mitrofanova, the floor is yours.
(21.1)  Mme Мitrofanova (Fédération de Russie), Présidente du Conseil exécutif (traduit du russe) :   Madame la Présidente de la Conférence générale, Madame la Directrice générale, Mesdames et Messieurs les  représentants des États membres de l’UNESCO, Excellences, Mesdames et Messieurs, aujourd’hui, en ma qualité de  Présidente du Conseil exécutif de l’UNESCO, j’ai le grand honneur de présenter l’introduction au débat de politique générale  de la Conférence générale. Comme vous le savez, le Conseil exécutif a l’obligation statutaire directe d’élaborer le Projet de  programme et de budget biennal de l’Organisation (36 C/5), de préparer les travaux de la session ordinaire de la Conférence  générale et de rendre compte de ses propres activités durant l’exercice biennal. C’est pourquoi j’ai inclus dans mon discours  un compte rendu de l’activité du Conseil pour la période 2010-2011. Après la lecture de mon rapport oral, vous pourrez en  prendre connaissance dans le document d’information publié sous la cote 36 C/INF.9. Ce document est un addendum détaillé
24  au document 36 С/9 Partie I, qui offre un bref résumé des principales activités menées par le Conseil exécutif entre sa 183e et  sa 187e session. Le document 36 C/INF.9 rend compte de manière plus détaillée des questions dont ont débattu les  commissions et les comités du Conseil exécutif, et que je n’énumérerai pas ici afin de m’en tenir à l’essentiel. Je voudrais  également rappeler que vous avez à votre disposition les documents du Conseil reprenant toutes les décisions adoptées au  cours des deux années écoulées, les rapports écrits des commissions et des comités, ainsi que les comptes rendus  analytiques de chaque session du Conseil et de ses réunions d’information.
(21.2) Mesdames, Messieurs, il n’est pas exagéré de dire qu’au cours des deux dernières années le Conseil a dû travailler  dans des conditions particulièrement difficiles. Il faut mentionner tout d’abord la crise financière et économique mondiale, puis  les bouleversements sociaux, politiques et culturels qui ont ébranlé le monde arabe sous l’impulsion de la jeunesse, une  jeunesse qui constitue la majeure partie de la population mondiale vivant sous le seuil de pauvreté. Les catastrophes  naturelles ont été nombreuses et répétées. Les catastrophes technologiques, fréquentes et de grande ampleur, ont eu  d’importantes répercussions sur les écosystèmes de la planète, sans parler des pertes humaines et financières colossales  qu’elles ont engendrées. Une cinquantaine de pays, dans toutes les régions du monde, ont connu des catastrophes  naturelles, des attentats terroristes, des conflits locaux, des épidémies et des catastrophes écologiques. Les dommages se  chiffrent en centaines de milliards de dollars au bas mot. Voilà à quoi ressemble le monde d’aujourd’hui. L’avenir dépendra du  pragmatisme dont saura faire preuve la communauté internationale – autrement dit nous tous – pour témoigner sa solidarité et  mobiliser ses forces en vue de surmonter ces crises.
(21.3) La période que nous venons de traverser a également été marquée par la réforme du fonctionnement du Secrétariat,  avec l’arrivée de nouveaux responsables à la direction de l’Organisation et les restructurations opérées dans un contexte de  ressources financières limitées. Je peux vous assurer que cette étape difficile mais indispensable dans la réforme de notre  Organisation se déroule bien. Il reste encore des problèmes à résoudre, notamment en ce qui concerne la discipline et la  bureaucratie internes, mais dans l’ensemble le Conseil exécutif a constaté des améliorations à cet égard.
(21.4)  Je voudrais surtout souligner que dans cette période complexe, la Directrice générale a réussi à former une nouvelle  équipe et a réagi rapidement aux nombreuses crises qui ont secoué le monde, comme le tremblement de terre en Haïti, les  inondations au Pakistan et dans d’autres pays. Grâce aux mesures énergiques entreprises par la Directrice générale, nous  constatons aujourd’hui que notre Organisation a plus de poids et de visibilité au sein du système des Nations Unies et sur la  scène internationale. Le Conseil exécutif salue les efforts déployés par la Directrice générale pour resserrer les liens avec les  États membres de l’UNESCO et leurs commissions nationales, notamment dans le cadre des consultations, réunions et  échanges d’informations qu’elle organise régulièrement. La volonté de la Directrice générale de répondre aux attentes des  États membres a caractérisé l’action de l’UNESCO pendant la période 2010-2011.
(21.5) Mesdames, Messieurs, comme vous vous en souvenez, au plan financier, nous avons commencé cet exercice  biennal en partant non pas de zéro, mais d’une croissance nominale zéro, sur la base d’une enveloppe budgétaire de
653 millions de dollars. Le Conseil exécutif recommande à la Conférence générale de s’en tenir à ce plafond budgétaire pour  l'exercice biennal 2012-2013. En se prononçant en faveur d’une croissance nominale zéro, le Conseil a considéré que le  monde était entré dans une période de récession économique et que l’ONU elle-même s’efforçait de réduire son propre  budget.
(21.6)  Comme vous le savez, la Conférence générale de l’UNESCO, à sa 35e session, dans sa résolution 82, a prié le  Conseil exécutif « de lui soumettre des propositions pour donner suite à la demande faite par l’Assemblée générale des  Nations Unies aux institutions spécialisées de synchroniser leur cycle de planification stratégique avec le nouveau cycle  quadriennal de l’examen complet des activités opérationnelles de développement du système des Nations Unies, qui  commence en 2012 ». Autrement dit, elle proposait de passer à un cycle de planification quadriennal. Ce travail a été  accompli, et ses résultats vous sont présentés pour examen.
(21.7) En outre, à sa 35e session, dans sa résolution 102, la Conférence générale a décidé qu’une évaluation externe et  indépendante  (EEI) de l’UNESCO devait être menée, qui soit globale, stratégique et tournée vers l’avenir. À sa 185e session,  le Conseil exécutif a examiné le rapport final de l’EEI et décidé d’établir un groupe de travail ad hoc, ouvert à tous les États  membres, dans le but d’élaborer des propositions afin de donner suite aux recommandations de l’EEI. Les conclusions de ce  groupe de travail ont été présentées au Conseil à sa 186e session. Le Conseil a approuvé les recommandations du groupe de  travail ad hoc, et les résultats de ses travaux sont présentés à la Conférence générale. Nous considérons ces résultats  comme extrêmement utiles et recommandons que, pour l’examen des questions complexes, le Conseil exécutif procède à  l’avenir selon les mêmes modalités.
(21.8)  Le Conseil a réaffirmé la Stratégie à moyen terme pour 2008-2013 présentée dans le document 34 C/4 et ses deux  priorités globales – l’Afrique et l’Égalité des genres –, ses objectifs primordiaux et objectifs stratégiques de programme, ainsi  que son orientation intersectorielle.   (La Présidente du Conseil exécutif poursuit en espagnol)
(21.9) Mesdames, Messieurs, les répercussions de l’action du Conseil sur le travail de l’Organisation ont mis encore plus  en évidence le rôle important de laboratoire d’idées que l’UNESCO joue au service de la paix et de la sécurité internationales.  Tout au long de l’exercice biennal, le Conseil a confirmé la nécessité de redonner une place véritablement centrale à la  dimension intellectuelle de l’Organisation. Preuves en sont, par exemple, le choix et la pertinence du débat thématique sur  « Le dialogue interculturel en 2010 : revisiter les politiques sous l’angle d’une culture de la paix », organisé à l’occasion de la
185e session, au cours duquel on a souligné combien il était important de définir de nouvelles manières de promouvoir la paix,  le dialogue, la tolérance et la réconciliation universelle. Ce débat s’est déroulé en lien étroit avec la célébration, en 2010, de  l’Année internationale du rapprochement des cultures, au sujet de laquelle le Conseil a formulé des recommandations  pertinentes afin d’imprimer un élan qui s’étendra au-delà de cette année. Au cours du présent exercice biennal, comme à  l’accoutumée, le Conseil a organisé quatre réunions d’information avec la Directrice générale entre les sessions, rencontres  des plus utiles pour les travaux de cet organe. De plus, les visites que le Conseil a reçues d’éminents invités, comme Son  Altesse royale la Princesse Marie de Danemark, le Prince Faisal Bin Abdullah Bin Mohammed Al Saud, Ministre de l’éducation  de l’Arabie saoudite, ou M. Sebastián Piñera, Président de la République du Chili, ont souligné une fois encore le rôle majeur  de l’UNESCO dans ses domaines de compétence en ce qui concerne la promotion des principes de démocratie, d’égalité, de  sécurité et de stabilité dans le monde.
(21.10) Mesdames, Messieurs, au cours de cet exercice biennal, le Conseil a montré son engagement profond à l’égard des  idées et objectifs universels d’humanité, de paix et de développement durable, participant activement aux initiatives de  l’UNESCO visant à promouvoir les objectifs définis dans la Déclaration du Millénaire des Nations Unies. Pour défendre cette  cause, plusieurs manifestations très diverses ont eu lieu, auxquelles j’ai eu la chance de participer dans l’exercice de mes  fonctions de Président du Conseil. Je pense notamment à des conférences internationales telles que le Forum du futur sur le  thème « Égalité des sexes : le chaînon manquant ? – Repenser les objectifs de développement adoptés au niveau  international au-delà de 2015 », qui s’est tenu en Grèce, ou la première Conférence mondiale sur l'éducation et la protection  de la petite enfance, organisée à Moscou. Je pense également aux inaugurations officielles de l’Année internationale du  rapprochement des cultures, de l’Année internationale de la jeunesse et de l’Année internationale de la chimie, proclamées  par l’Assemblée générale des Nations Unies.
(21.11) Par ailleurs, comme beaucoup de membres du Conseil, j’ai participé ou participerai directement à plusieurs  événements visant à célébrer des dates importantes pour l’ensemble de l’humanité. Il convient de citer notamment le
65e anniversaire de la fin de la Seconde Guerre mondiale, le 65e anniversaire de la création de l’UNESCO ou le
50e anniversaire du premier vol spatial habité, ainsi que le 10e anniversaire de la Déclaration universelle de l'UNESCO sur la  diversité culturelle, qui sera célébré le 2 novembre.
(21.12) Mesdames, Messieurs les représentants, lors de sa dernière session du biennium, le Conseil exécutif a  recommandé à la Conférence générale d’admettre la Palestine en tant qu’État membre de l’UNESCO à la majorité des voix :
40 pour, 4 contre et 15 abstentions. Les États membres qui ont voté contre ou se sont abstenus ont fait valoir qu’une décision  à ce sujet devait d’abord être adoptée au Siège des Nations Unies à New York. Cependant, la majorité des membres du  Conseil ont appuyé la demande d’admission de la Palestine comme État membre de l’UNESCO et aujourd’hui la Conférence  générale est saisie de la recommandation qui en a résulté.
(21.13) Mesdames, Messieurs, chacune des missions que nous avons accomplies a exigé que tous nous fassions preuve  d’habileté pour conjuguer temps, énergie, souplesse et détermination afin d’obtenir des résultats tangibles et mutuellement  acceptables. Ainsi, les membres du Conseil sont restés fermement résolus à faire de l’UNESCO un acteur dynamique de la  gouvernance mondiale en tirant pleinement parti des bienfaits et avantages que confère cette position.  (L’orateur poursuit en anglais)
21.14 Distinguished delegates, I would now like to inform you about the work of the commissions and committees of  the Executive Board during the 2010-2011 biennium. In doing so, I would like to acknowledge the contributions to this
26  report that I received from my colleagues, members of the Bureau, whose judicious approach, invaluable support and  friendship helped me to make the Board focus on results and efficiency. As I said previously, I will not give details but will  summarize by giving the essence, while inviting you to find supplementary information in document 36 C/INF 9.
21.15 Throughout the biennium, the Programme and External Relations (PX) Commission examined a total of
71 agenda items. Over the reporting period, the Commission recommended 66 draft decisions. The vast majority of them  were adopted by consensus, except on nine occasions when a vote was taken. With regard to programmatic  deliberations, the Commission stressed the importance of UNESCO’s actions in education, in particular concerning the  education for all (EFA) programme. The Commission generally welcomed the new EFA coordination structure which will  make education more visible on the global agenda. In this regard the Commission strongly urged UNESCO to be more  ambitious and to start planning strategic actions beyond 2015. Two other areas in education that received a lot of  attention from the Commission were the UNESCO strategy for the second half of the United Nations Decade of  Education for Sustainable Development (DESD) and the progress achieved in the implementation of the technical and  vocational education and training (TVET) strategy. In the area of natural sciences, the Commission, among others,  expressed its general support for the creation of a UNESCO engineering initiative and supported the creation of the  Intergovernmental Science-Policy Platform on Biodiversity and Ecosystem Services (IPBES). The Commission also  welcomed UNESCO’s contribution to the global action on climate change. With regard to social and human sciences, the  Commission highlighted the importance of the Organization’s actions on youth and took note of the UNESCO Strategy  on African Youth. The Commission also supported the reorganization of the Management of Social Transformations  (MOST) Programme. Furthermore, members of the Commission advocated for UNESCO to continue its action on human  rights, bioethics, philosophy and democracy. Concerning UNESCO’s action in the field of culture, the Commission  underlined the importance of its standard-setting function in this area, and called for strengthening of the implementation  of existing normative instruments. The Commission also highlighted that priority should be given to supporting Member  States in mainstreaming culture into their development policies, and underscored the importance of reinforcing  programmes and activities in favour of languages and multilingualism, dialogue among cultures and protection of cultural  heritage in post-conflict and post-disaster (PCPD) situations. With regard to communication and information, the  Commission generally supported the revised draft strategy on UNESCO’s contribution to the promotion of open access  to scientific information and research. Within the framework of the World Summit on the Information Society (WSIS),  UNESCO should continue to play a lead role in open access to scientific information and collaborate with other United  Nations agencies on the subject. Finally, as knowledge management is to be considered one of UNESCO's main  priorities, the PX Commission is increasingly supportive of the Memory of the World Programme.
21.16 In the course of the biennium, the Finance and Administrative (FA) Commission examined a total of 68 items,  including: the rate of budget implementation of regular and extrabudgetary funds; accountability and transparency in  financial management; prompt implementation of all external and internal audit recommendations; requirements to  improve compliance; and cost effectiveness and efficiency, to do better with fewer resources in order to enhance the  credibility and reputation of the Organization and its competitiveness and complementarity with other United Nations  agencies. The Commission resolved by consensus a number of important issues: the Organization’s first financial  statements prepared under International Public Sector Accounting Standards (IPSAS) received the External Auditor’s  approval; the first phase of the reform of the field network was approved; and the human resources strategy for 2012-
2017 was endorsed. In addition, members found that the examination of 14 audit reports of the External Auditor provided  useful evidence-based information, which assisted the Executive Board in exercising oversight over the implementation  of the Programme. The Commission supported, within the alternative 36 C/5 zero nominal growth scenario, the  reinforcement of the Africa Department by $1.1 million and of the Division for Gender Equality by $0.7 million, as well as  the allocation of $9 million under a separate budget line for funding of the first phase of the field network reform. Dear  colleagues, over the course of the 2010-2011 biennium, amongst the most debated items have been questions relating  to the state and governance of the Medical Benefits Fund (MBF), the management of the UNESCO complex and its  security, in particular the Capital Master Plan, construction of the forward security post, renovation of the Bonvin/Miollis  site and installation of the new communication systems, as well as the use of the constant dollar and its impact on  Member States’ contributions. While recognizing the achievements with respect to the human resources strategy,  geographical distribution of staff, gender balance and lack of transparency in the recruitment process still remained  contentious issues for the Commission.
21.17 Distinguished colleagues, a clear tendency has been observed to increase the number of Board items to be  examined by the joint meeting of the FA and PX commissions, which proved its positive role as an efficient and time- saving mechanism. It confirmed the increased understanding among Members of the Executive Board and the  Secretariat of the inseparable link between programmatic and financial aspects and the increased attention paid by them  to the efforts to further streamline and rationalize the Organization’s resources. However, there is a tendency, in the  examination of items in the joint meeting, despite recognition of the importance of financial and administrative issues, to  give preference to the examination of substantive or programmatic issues, which is quite understandable, given that  UNESCO’s mission and aims in serving its Member States are to advance intellectual cooperation and strengthen  solidarity.
21.18 As to the Special Committee (SP), it considered several important items on the Board’s agenda with a view to  providing reports and recommendations to the commissions and plenary on questions pertaining to the running costs of  the governing bodies. It also considered the follow-up of the independent external evaluation of UNESCO and the United  Nations General Assembly proposal to align planning cycles with the quadrennial comprehensive policy review of  operational activities for the development of the United Nations system.  (The Chair of the Executive Board continues in French)
21.19 Mesdames et Messieurs, aux termes de son double mandat, le Comité sur les conventions et recommandations  a poursuivi ses objectifs premiers consistant tout d’abord à assurer le suivi de l’application des 14 instruments normatifs  adoptés par l’UNESCO. Le Comité a ainsi examiné cinq rapports sur l’application par les États membres des instruments  normatifs, puis l’a transmis à la présente session de la Conférence générale avec ses commentaires. Certaines  consultations sur les rapports périodiques des États membres concernant la suite donnée aux conventions et  recommandations ont rencontré un taux assez faible de réponses. Le Comité a donc rappelé les obligations juridiques  prévues par l’article VIII de l’Acte constitutif de l’UNESCO. En second lieu, le Comité a examiné en 2010-2011 les  communications reçues par l’UNESCO concernant les cas de violation des droits de l’homme dans les domaines  relevant de sa compétence. Trente-quatre communications concernant 14 pays ont été examinées en séance privée :  huit d’entre elles ont été réglées. Le Comité a aussi poursuivi l’examen de ses propres méthodes de travail, en adoptant  des mesures visant à améliorer sa pratique procédurale. Il a invité la Directrice générale à recourir à ses bons offices  pour faciliter l’émergence de solutions relatives aux cas déjà examinés par le Comité et à renforcer la visibilité de la  procédure 104.  (La Présidente du Conseil exécutif poursuit en anglais)
21.20 Ladies and gentlemen, with regard to the work of the Committee on International Non-Governmental  Organizations, its revitalization process, decided by the General Conference at its 34th session, was pursued and  strengthened. This was possible thanks to the thematic round tables held on topics of common interest to UNESCO and  NGOs. Since it seems to be important that the partners involved in this exercise all feel on an equal footing, this  experience could possibly benefit from a different organizational framework. Such events of international scope could  meaningfully be convened once a year, outside the strict confines of the Board’s proceedings, but naturally under its  auspices and with its full participation. The work of the Committee was also highlighted by the drafting of the new  directives concerning UNESCO’s partnership with NGOs, recommended to the General Conference for adoption, and the  revision of the terms of reference of the Committee.
21.21 Distinguished colleagues, since taking office, my first and foremost concern as Chair of the Executive Board was  to avoid the repetition of the budgetary overspend experienced by the Board in previous periods. Therefore, I tried to  exercise vigilant control of budget execution over the present biennium. I am sincerely thankful to the Members of the  Board and its Bureau members – vice-chairpersons and chairpersons of the commissions and committees – for their  sustained cooperation in considering the Board’s efforts towards the optimization of its work. This was also possible only  in close coordination with the Board Secretariat. It involved the rationalization of the agenda, careful forward planning of  translation and document production schedules, control of hospitality expenses, limitation of overtime and recourse to  temporary assistance. During my mandate I have launched a special pilot project to ensure that Members of the Board  could participate on a voluntary basis in an experimental process to replace paper documents by accessing their  respective online versions through a specially created, user-friendly website. This process, which entailed no additional  cost whatsoever to the Board’s overall budget, is of course subject to review and further improvement. I must say that as  a preliminary, broad-brush result, the projected budget situation at the close of the current biennium shows expenditure  in line with targets. Certain additional expenses and investments have been possible thanks to such tight budget  management. For example, I am thinking of the optimization of sound and electrical equipment in meeting rooms and six- language interpretation during all information meetings of the Executive Board. Now, as we are close to the end of the  biennium, it is a matter of fact that during this period the Executive Board has managed to adjust towards greater  economy in its activities. I think you will agree that reducing a 30% over-run to almost nil in the biennium is already a  considerable achievement. I shall also note, however, that this is just the beginning. The Board’s sessions have kept to  the agenda and within the time-limit for the first time in recent years, finishing its work on time. I consider that, on the  whole, judging by the outcomes of the four sessions of the Board, we have made essential progress in our shared desire  to reform UNESCO and the work of its governing bodies.
21.22 The Board’s work was not, however, without challenges, of course. For instance, the challenge of adopting a  more business-oriented approach involving regular informal consultations by Board Members on all or most key issues in  the period between sessions has not been met. This attitude would allow Member States to make use of less time- consuming procedures at Board sessions by avoiding duplication between the debates and the preparation of draft  documents. I fervently hope that the Board will also be able to pragmatically continue to be concerned by the ever- increasing number of items on its agenda and by the rising expectations to deliver more programme activities with limited  resources. I would invite Member States to constantly pursue reflections on how to improve our methods of work in order  to ensure that we begin and close our official meetings as good managers of our own time, energies, health and money.
21.23 Moving UNESCO into the twenty-first century is not something just for the Secretariat. The governing bodies  simply cannot continue with working methods established in the 1950s. Much still has to be done, and I lay great hope on  the follow-up to the independent external evaluation to move this matter forward. Its conclusions and recommendations  on UNESCO’s current work were most helpful for the Board’s reflections and actions towards capitalizing on the power  and value of the Organization’s programme for its stakeholders.
21.24 Dear colleagues, you know well that the whole action of our Organization requires the three organs’ full attention,  but in particular that of the Executive Board. Here I must say that closer communication and cooperation between the  Chair of the Executive Board and both the President of the General Conference and the Director-General ensured that  the three bodies worked as one, while being mindful of each other’s role. I must once more pay special tribute to Mr  Davidson Hepburn, former President of the General Conference, for his wise and inspiring advice and observations on  the Board’s work over the past two years. His vigorous action gave particularly great visibility to the item relating to small  island developing States (SIDS).
28  (The Chair of the Executive Board continues in Russian)
(21.25) Excellences, Mesdames et Messieurs, en conclusion, je voudrais dire ceci : depuis sa création et jusqu’à ce jour,  l’UNESCO a pleinement justifié sa raison d’être. Le processus actuel de réforme de notre Organisation démontre que  l’UNESCO peut s’adapter à un environnement changeant et réagir avec rapidité, précision et souplesse aux transformations  du monde. Dans ses domaines de compétence, elle doit continuer à permettre à la communauté internationale d’accomplir sa  tâche avec efficacité et une visibilité maximale. La session du Conseil exécutif joue à cet égard un rôle de liaison  indispensable quand, s’appuyant sur l’expérience des années passées, les États membres de l’Organisation s’efforcent  ensemble, dans un esprit de consensus et un dialogue constructif, de bâtir un avenir meilleur pour l’humanité tout entière. Je  voudrais souhaiter aux délégués à la Conférence générale des travaux efficaces et fructueux au nom de la noble mission de  l’Organisation. Je vous remercie de votre attention.   (Applaudissements)
22. The President:  Thank you, Madam, for your presentation. Allow me to congratulate you for this excellent report, and for the efficient work  that the Board accomplished under your leadership during the past biennium.   Introduction by the Director-General to the general policy debate  Introduction de la Directrice générale au débat de politique générale  Introducción por la Directora General del debate de política general  Вступительное слово Генерального директора к обсуждению вопросов общей политики   تقديم المديرة العامة لم ائشات السااسة العامة 总干事对总政策辩论的介绍
23. The President:  And now, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to invite the Director-General to take the floor and present her introduction to  the general policy debate. Madam Director-General, the floor is yours.
24.1 La Directrice générale :   Madame la Présidente de la Conférence générale, Madame la Présidente du Conseil exécutif, Mesdames et  Messieurs les chefs de délégation, Excellences, Mesdames et Messieurs, nous avons tous le sentiment de vivre une  étape majeure de notre histoire. Les cultures et les peuples se rapprochent à une vitesse incroyable. Les nouvelles  technologies et les mouvements de populations ouvrent des perspectives de coopération, d’échange et de dialogue. Le  monde est davantage connecté. Nous sommes plus nombreux. Sept milliards d’habitants, cela représente une pression  considérable sur les ressources naturelles, l’eau potable, les terres agricoles, déjà touchées par les conséquences du  réchauffement climatique. Sept milliards d’habitants, cela représente aussi des ressources humaines gigantesques, une  formidable réserve d’intelligence et de solidarité, si nous parvenons à mettre en place une éducation de qualité pour tous  et à partager les richesses et les savoirs.
24.2 En l’espace de seulement deux ans, nous avons vu se succéder des catastrophes dont les experts pensaient  qu’elles ne se produisaient qu’une fois par siècle : en Haïti, au Pakistan, au Japon, en Nouvelle-Zélande, en Thaïlande,  et ce à des échelles qui défient l’imagination. La crise économique et financière mine la confiance des États. Elle  aggrave les inquiétudes de millions d’individus. Et au même moment, nous voyons en direct, sur nos portables, sur  Internet, à Sidi Bouzid et Place Tahrir, des hommes et des femmes changer l’histoire, au nom de la liberté et de la  dignité. Les mouvements populaires du Printemps arabe transforment des régions entières. Ils soulèvent un immense  espoir, peut-être le plus grand espoir démocratique depuis une génération. Mais le succès, Mesdames et Messieurs,  n’est pas garanti pour autant. Je le sais par expérience : toute transformation, toute dynamique de ce type est un travail  de longue haleine. Elle demande énormément d’efforts, beaucoup de vigilance et beaucoup de soutien.
24.3 Cette dynamique appelle de nouvelles politiques publiques, de nouvelles formes de coopération. Elle impose de  repenser notre vision de la paix. L’UNESCO a été créée il y a plus de 65 ans pour construire la paix dans l’esprit des  hommes et des femmes. La culture de la paix, aujourd’hui, est très différente d’il y a 20 ou 50 ans. La paix est bien autre  chose que l’absence de guerre. Elle tire sa force de l’éducation, du respect des droits de la personne, de la sécurité des  journalistes. La paix, c’est lorsque les jeunes trouvent un travail à la hauteur de leurs compétences. Lorsque les femmes  bénéficient des mêmes droits que les hommes. Lorsque la diversité des cultures est considérée comme une source de  renouvellement des sociétés et des idées, une force pour la promotion des valeurs communes. Comment vraiment vivre  ensemble et pas seulement côte-à-côte, même pacifiquement ? Les sociétés modernes sont marquées par le brassage  et le contact d’identités multiples. Les enjeux culturels s’installent au sommet des préoccupations nationales. Nous  voyons des conflits entre les États, mais aussi de plus en plus souvent à l’intérieur des États. Notre vision de la paix doit  intégrer les conséquences des risques naturels, comprendre comment le réchauffement climatique bouleverse la vie des
29  sociétés. Elle suppose de mobiliser des acteurs multiples, des experts du dialogue interculturel, des professionnels de la  gestion de l’eau, de la prévention des risques. Cette paix-là n’est pas une chose qui se maintient. C’est quelque chose  qui se construit, qu’il faut réinventer chaque jour, en fonction du contexte, comme l’ont rappelé les travaux du Panel de  haut niveau sur la paix et le dialogue entre les cultures, que j’ai créé comme je l’avais promis. L’Année internationale du  rapprochement des cultures offre aussi l’occasion de célébrer plus de mille événements à travers le monde entier.
24.4 La 187e session du Conseil exécutif a placé notre Organisation sous le feu des projecteurs en recommandant à  la Conférence générale d’admettre la Palestine comme État membre de l’UNESCO. La Conférence générale a  maintenant une décision importante à prendre. À cet égard, je voudrais citer, en anglais, le Secrétaire général de l’ONU,  M. Ban Ki-moon, qui a déclaré lors de la 66e session de l’Assemblée générale des Nations Unies, au mois de  septembre : « Ending the Israeli-Palestinian conflict and achieving a two-State solution is long overdue ». Le peuple  palestinien, comme tous les autres peuples de la région, doit pouvoir protéger son identité, préserver sa culture et son  patrimoine. Il doit pouvoir bénéficier d’un système éducatif performant. La coopération de l’UNESCO avec la Palestine  est ancienne. Cette coopération porte sur le soutien apporté aux autorités palestiniennes pour mettre en place leurs  institutions et renforcer les capacités des professionnels palestiniens dans les domaines de compétence de l’UNESCO,  en particulier l’éducation et la culture. Au cours des dernières décennies, l’UNESCO a travaillé main dans la main avec  les institutions et le peuple palestiniens pour développer le système éducatif, protéger et préserver un patrimoine culturel  immensément riche, et promouvoir le respect des droits de l’homme pour tous les Palestiniens dans les domaines de  compétence de l’Organisation. J’ai bien entendu la demande du peuple palestinien qui souhaite un accroissement de  l’engagement de l'UNESCO et de son action dans les domaines de l'éducation et de la culture. Je tiens à réaffirmer que  l'UNESCO a pris la pleine mesure de sa responsabilité, et que je veillerai personnellement à intensifier notre coopération  pour renforcer le système éducatif et les capacités des professionnels palestiniens à préserver leur patrimoine culturel et  naturel. Je suis convaincue que l’UNESCO doit rester une plate-forme universelle de dialogue pour la recherche de  solutions en matière de protection du patrimoine, semblable à un pont jeté entre les cultures. Cet enjeu nous concerne  tous, et je déploierai tous les efforts possibles au nom de cette universalité qui fait la force de notre action.
24.5 Mesdames et Messieurs, le monde change rapidement. Notre capacité d’action collective doit suivre le même  rythme. J’ai souligné plusieurs fois déjà que le multilatéralisme était la meilleure réponse à nos défis. Cette conviction est  plus forte que jamais. Aucun pays, aussi puissant soit-il, ne peut répondre seul aux défis qui sont les nôtres. Aucun pays  ne peut prospérer durablement si les autres sont en proie aux inégalités. C’est pourquoi le développement de l’Afrique  nous concerne tous. C’est pourquoi l’égalité entre hommes et femmes nous concerne tous. Nous avons, chacun d’entre  nous, dans la diversité de nos cultures, des éléments de réponse à apporter. Et pas seulement les États ; je pense à  tous les acteurs de la société civile, du secteur privé, qui sont aujourd’hui au cœur de l’action multilatérale. Nous devons  bâtir un multilatéralisme plus efficace, plus ouvert, plus réactif. Les Nations Unies ont été créées pour offrir cet espace  de coopération. Elles sont désormais soumises à d’immenses pressions, à des attaques, comme récemment à Abuja.  Elles sont porteuses d’un espoir colossal, mais dotées de moyens limités. Réussirons-nous à faire face ? Je crois que  nous le devons. Je suis sûre que nous le pouvons, si nous sommes « Unis dans l’action ».
24.6 Tel est l’enjeu de la réforme, et l’UNESCO a un rôle majeur à jouer. L’éducation, les sciences, la culture, le  partage des savoirs : voilà ce qui permet d’inscrire la paix et le développement dans la durée. Voilà ce qui permet  d’apporter un peu de stabilité dans un monde précaire et imprévisible. Cette idée est inscrite au cœur de l’Acte constitutif  de l’UNESCO depuis plus de 65 ans. Au cours des deux dernières années, nous avons redoublé d’efforts pour montrer  que cette idée, nous savons la mettre en pratique. Nous avons fait valoir nos résultats. Nous avons renforcé notre  autorité intellectuelle. Le Projet de programme et de budget que j’ai l’honneur de vous soumettre illustre cet esprit de  réforme. Il témoigne d’un recentrage important sur nos avantages comparatifs : l’accompagnement des politiques  publiques, le renforcement des capacités. Il reflète un renforcement radical, et sans précédent, de nos deux priorités  globales : l’Afrique et l’Égalité des genres. Il illustre ma vision de l’UNESCO : une UNESCO plus forte, qui accompagne  les États membres vers un nouveau modèle de développement adapté à notre temps. Un modèle qui met le facteur  humain au cœur du développement, par l’éducation, les sciences, la culture, le partage des savoirs. Un modèle qui place  l’humain au cœur du développement, pour inscrire le développement dans la durée. Cette vision, ce nouvel humanisme,  me guide et m’oriente dans toutes nos activités.
24.7 Mesdames et Messieurs, j’ai promis de renforcer l’autorité intellectuelle et la capacité d’entraînement de  l’UNESCO. Cela commence par l’éducation. Tous nos efforts, nos études, nos débats, nos réunions, vont dans le même  sens, et je sais que je m’adresse à de nombreux ministres de l’éducation présents dans cette salle, vous qui êtes les  premiers acteurs de ce mouvement. Pendant deux ans, nous avons remobilisé toute la communauté internationale et les  cinq chefs des agences initiatrices de l’Éducation pour tous à un niveau que je qualifierai d’inédit depuis 1990. ONU- Femmes rejoint ce mouvement. J’ai souligné que la bonne coordination de l’Éducation pour tous au plus haut niveau  était un enjeu capital dont dépendait toute l’efficacité de notre plaidoyer. Ensemble, nous avons jeté les bases d’un  mécanisme beaucoup plus intégré, plus visible, qui donne aux États membres davantage de moyens pour s’investir.
24.8 Cette action, Mesdames et Messieurs, porte ses fruits. Pour la première fois de son histoire, la rencontre  ministérielle du Conseil économique et social, tenue au mois de juillet dernier à Genève, a été consacrée au thème de  l’éducation. Le document final reprend à son compte notre vision inclusive de l’éducation, et conforte l’UNESCO dans  son rôle de chef de file. C’est le signe d’un changement profond. Je pense aussi à nos rapports annuels de suivi sur  l’Éducation pour tous, dont l’édition 2010 portait sur la question de l’équité et de l’inclusion, et l’édition 2011 sur les  ravages des conflits armés sur l’éducation. Ces études font autorité à l’échelle mondiale. Elles sont saluées par toute la  communauté éducative et nous leur assurons une visibilité maximale : plus de 50 présentations dans le monde cette  année, à Londres, Beijing, Abuja, Santiago, Amman, New York et ailleurs. Le rapport de 2010 a directement inspiré  l’adoption, en juillet dernier, de la résolution du Conseil de sécurité de l’ONU sur la protection des écoles dans les
30  conflits armés, une résolution portée par l’Allemagne, que je salue pour cette initiative. J’y vois la parfaite démonstration  de notre rôle et de notre valeur ajoutée : susciter le débat, partager les informations, orienter les politiques publiques.
24.9 L’UNESCO est un repère. Nous l’avons encore prouvé avec la mise en place du Partenariat mondial pour  l’éducation des filles et des femmes, en coopération avec des acteurs du secteur privé, et grâce au soutien de  responsables politiques au plus haut niveau. J’ai fait de l’égalité entre les hommes et les femmes l’un des piliers de mon  mandat. Je refuse que des filles aient peur d’aller à l’école, peur des attaques et des violences dont elles sont victimes.  Je refuse que les deux tiers des 800 millions d’adultes analphabètes dans le monde soient des femmes. Et je pourrais  dire, paraphrasant le grand poète Aimé Césaire, que n’importe où dans le monde, chaque fois qu’une mère, inquiète,  n’arrive pas à lire ce qui est inscrit sur le médicament qu’elle donne à ses enfants, « il y a un acquis de la civilisation qui  pèse de son poids mort, une régression universelle qui s’opère, un foyer d’infection qui s’étend », dont nous sommes  tous comptables. Interdire aux filles et aux femmes une éducation de qualité, c’est barrer la route menant aux postes de  décision, et au pouvoir politique, à la moitié de l’humanité. Nous ne pouvons pas nous le permettre. Je refuse de  l’accepter. Aujourd’hui, en Afghanistan, l’UNESCO mène le plus grand programme d’éducation de l’histoire du pays dans
18 provinces, auprès de 600 000 personnes, en priorité des filles et des femmes. La Secrétaire d’État américaine, Hillary  Clinton, a souligné lorsqu’elle était à nos côtés le 26 mai dernier : « Ouvrir les portes de l’école aux filles, ce n’est pas  seulement juste, c’est intelligent ». C’est le moyen, Mesdames et Messieurs, d’éduquer des familles entières, ainsi que  de contribuer à la stabilité, à la cohésion et à la croissance économique d’un pays.
24.10 Notre rôle, à l’UNESCO, est d’exploiter au maximum le potentiel des agents facilitateurs du développement  durable que sont l’éducation, la culture, les sciences, le libre partage des informations et du savoir. Je pense notamment  à la culture : c’était une dimension absente du débat sur les Objectifs du Millénaire pour le développement en 2000.  Depuis deux ans, l’UNESCO se mobilise afin de démontrer l’importance du facteur culturel pour atteindre chacun des  Objectifs du Millénaire pour le développement. Dans le document final du dernier Sommet sur les Objectifs du Millénaire  pour le développement, en septembre 2010, il est pris acte du lien profond qui unit culture et développement. L’adoption  d’une résolution de l’Assemblée générale des Nations Unies, au mois de décembre de l’année passée, confirme ce  tournant historique, et je remercie le Pérou, le G-77 et la Chine pour leur rôle actif. L’enjeu va bien au-delà de quelques  lignes dans un texte officiel. Je pense à ce programme piloté par l’UNESCO au Cambodge, dans la région de Ratanakiri,  qui permet de faire revivre la technique du tissage traditionnel, oubliée des communautés autochtones pendant la  période khmer, et qui leur assure aujourd’hui un emploi et de meilleures conditions de vie. Je pense à notre action en  Haïti, auprès des artisans du carnaval de Jacmel, qui vise à relancer la confection des masques, des costumes et des  produits d’artisanat comme un levier de tourisme, une source de fierté. Ce programme a d’ailleurs été remarqué par  l’Initiative mondiale du Président américain Bill Clinton.
24.11 Reconstruire la culture, c’est reconstruire toute la société. Je pense évidemment à ces pays d’Afrique du Nord,  qui ont plus que jamais besoin de compter sur les ressources de leur patrimoine culturel pour se développer et fortifier la  démocratie. L’UNESCO s’est mobilisée immédiatement après les changements pour assurer la protection des sites du  patrimoine et pour endiguer le trafic illicite des objets culturels en Tunisie, en Égypte et en Lybie. Le pillage des objets  culturels cause des dommages irréversibles pour l’identité des peuples. Le vol du trésor archéologique de Bengazi est  l’un des plus importants de l’histoire, avec le pillage du musée de Bagdad. Je suis décidée à ce que l’UNESCO pèse de  tout son poids pour arrêter cette saignée culturelle, partout dans le monde. J’ai convoqué une réunion des États parties à  la Convention de 1970, l’année prochaine, en juin 2012, pour intensifier ce combat et mobiliser l’ensemble des États  membres autour de cet effort. La mise en œuvre des Conventions de 1970, 1972, 2003 et 2005 renforce chaque jour un  peu plus notre conviction qu’il existe un lien profond entre la culture et le développement, entre la protection du  patrimoine immatériel, la promotion de la diversité culturelle, l’artisanat, les industries créatives, le développement  durable et, bien évidemment, la protection du patrimoine culturel.
24.12 Cette affirmation de la culture est inséparable de la liberté d’expression, du respect du pluralisme. Chacun doit  avoir le droit de s’exprimer librement. C’est la condition de sociétés plus équitables, plus inclusives. Albert Camus disait :  « la presse libre peut sans doute être bonne ou mauvaise, mais assurément, sans la liberté, elle ne saura jamais être  autre chose que mauvaise ». C’est pourquoi l’UNESCO a formé plus d’une centaine de journalistes tunisiens à couvrir  les élections qui viennent d’avoir lieu, les premières élections libres du pays. C’est pourquoi l’UNESCO accompagne  aussi l’Égypte, qui a célébré cette année, pour la première fois de son histoire, la Journée internationale de la liberté de  la presse. Nous pouvons et nous devons investir beaucoup plus, et beaucoup mieux, dans ce qui fait la force de l’esprit  humain. Nous pouvons le décider ici et maintenant, alors pourquoi attendre ?
24.13 Le potentiel de la science, par exemple, est encore sous-exploité. C’est le message délivré par les experts du  Haut Panel sur la science et le développement, dont j’avais promis la création et qui s’est réuni pour la première fois au  mois de septembre. La science a un rôle clé à jouer pour l’avenir, notamment en Afrique où elle permettra de faire face à  l’augmentation de la population et à la chute de la production agricole sous l’effet du changement climatique. Nous  avons redoublé d’efforts dans ce domaine. Nous accompagnons déjà 24 pays d’Afrique dans l’évaluation de leurs  politiques scientifiques et technologiques. Parmi nos projets régionaux, le programme de renforcement des capacités de  gestion de la biodiversité dans les zones arides est « l’un des meilleurs projets régionaux évalués en Afrique de l’Ouest »  d’après le Fonds pour l’environnement mondial. Le chantier est immense, et il y a de nombreux signes d’espoir. L’Institut  de statistique de l’UNESCO a montré que dans les pays d’Afrique subsaharienne, les dépenses dans le domaine de  l’éducation avaient augmenté de 6 % par an au cours des dix dernières années. Je crois que c’est en partie le résultat de  notre action.  (La Directrice générale poursuit en espagnol)
(24.14) Mesdames, Messieurs, ces dernières années, nous avons été témoins de catastrophes naturelles extrêmement  violentes en Haïti, au Pakistan, au Japon, en Nouvelle-Zélande et, tout récemment, en Thaïlande et en Turquie. Ces  catastrophes nous incitent à modifier notre perception du rôle que peuvent jouer l’éducation, la science, la culture et la  communication dans les situations d’urgence. Elles nous obligent à renforcer les systèmes d’alerte et de prévention des  risques. Elles nous poussent à mieux préparer les populations. L’UNESCO tient une position idéale dans certains de ces  domaines. Je pense, à cet égard, au Système d'alerte aux tsunamis et autres risques côtiers dans la mer des Caraïbes et les  régions adjacentes dont la coordination incombe à l’UNESCO. Le 11 mars dernier, l’alerte a été lancée en moins de trois  minutes après le séisme au large des côtes de Fukushima. Cette alerte, malheureusement, n’a pas suffi pour épargner des  milliers de vies humaines. Ce drame nous incite encore plus à renforcer avec la même détermination ce système à l’échelle  mondiale, puisque les tsunamis ignorent les frontières nationales. Je pense également au premier exercice de simulation à  échelle réelle d’alerte contre les tsunamis mené à bien par l’UNESCO dans les Caraïbes le 23 mars dernier, avec 33 pays  participants. Le Pakistan a été dévasté cette année par de nouvelles inondations, après celles de l’année dernière, les pires  enregistrées depuis 80 ans, avec plus de 20 millions de personnes touchées. Pour faire face à cette situation, nous venons de  mettre en marche le nouveau programme d’alerte et de prévention des risques dans toute la vallée de l’Indus, avec l’appui du  Gouvernement du Japon.
(24.15) Mesdames, Messieurs, le nombre des risques nous obligent à bâtir les sociétés sur des ciments plus solides que les  routes, les digues ou les usines : la reconstruction sociale doit reposer sur ce que les peuples ont de plus profond, de plus  stable et de plus durable. Comme l’a si bien dit Michaëlle Jean, notre Envoyée spéciale pour Haïti, « une fois que l’éducation  entre dans l’esprit d’un enfant, aucun séisme ne peut l’en déloger ». C’est pourquoi je suis convaincue que la culture,  l’éducation, les sciences et la jouissance commune du savoir doivent occuper une place centrale dans l’action humanitaire  d’urgence. Sans elles, rien de durable ne pourra être mis en place.
(24.16) Mesdames, Messieurs, l’UNESCO existe pour tisser entre les peuples et les cultures des liens plus forts et plus  étroits que les traités de paix ou les accords commerciaux. J’ai promis de jeter des ponts et des passerelles entre les peuples  et les cultures, entre l’Est, l’Ouest, le Nord et le Sud. Aujourd’hui, nous jetons des ponts en Europe du Sud-Est avec le  programme « La culture : un pont vers le développement » pour instaurer la confiance et panser les plaies grâce à la
32  participation de réseaux d’artistes qui agissent comme des moteurs de réconciliation. Nous jetons des ponts par-delà les  océans avec la publication de l'Histoire générale de l'Afrique en portugais, ce qui permet à des millions de Brésiliens de  connaître leur passé et à tout un peuple de se réconcilier avec son histoire.
(24.17)  Nous ouvrons des voies quand six pays d’Amérique du Sud décident de présenter une candidature conjointe à la  Liste du patrimoine mondial pour préserver le Qapaq Ñan (réseau de routes andin), qui traverse la majeure partie du continent.  Oui, nous créons des passages avec l’initiative relative à Tagore, Neruda et Césaire, qui souligne la contribution de toutes les  cultures à nos valeurs communes et nous rappelle qu’approfondir sa propre culture est un moyen d’accéder à l’universel car,  comme le disait l’immense poète Pablo Neruda, « Le déracinement pour l’être humain est une frustration qui, d’une manière  ou d’une autre, atrophie la clarté de son âme ».
(24.18) Me viennent également à l’esprit les écoles ouvertes du Brésil, où des milliers de jeunes apprennent à désamorcer  la violence au moyen du sport, de la musique et de la culture, grâce aussi à l’appui de l’UNESCO. Je pense en outre à Hari  Devi Rokaya, Vice-Présidente de la radio « Nari Aawaj » (La voix des femmes), au Népal, qui remercie l’UNESCO d’avoir  donné aux femmes de la province reculée de Jumla les moyens d’échanger pour la première fois leurs opinions et  préoccupations : « Elles sentent l’énorme solidarité de toutes les femmes qu’elles ne connaissent pas et qui vivent loin d’elles  mais qui, comme elles, partagent les mêmes défis quotidiens et veulent s’entraider ». Je pense à toutes ces initiatives qui, sur  le plan local, régional ou mondial, nous aident à voir que ce que nous avons en commun est plus fort que ce qui nous divise.  (La Directrice générale poursuit en russe)
(24.19)  Mesdames et Messieurs, l’UNESCO va de l’avant. Ce mouvement trouve sa source dans la vision qui guide  l’Organisation depuis 66 ans. Il s’inspire des idées que nous voulons propager aujourd’hui, à savoir protéger la dignité  humaine, renforcer la résilience de la société et poser les bases du développement durable. Tout cela reflète les changements  que j’avais promis il y a deux ans.
(24.20) Ensemble, nous avons entrepris une réforme en profondeur de l’UNESCO. Cette réforme tient compte des  conclusions du rapport relatif à l’Évaluation externe indépendante demandée par la Conférence générale, des  recommandations du Groupe de travail ad hoc du Conseil exécutif sur l’Évaluation externe indépendante de l'UNESCO, ainsi  que des mesures que j’ai planifiées. Main dans la main, nous avons avancé. Cela témoigne de l’existence d’un consensus.  Cela témoigne d’une volonté de changement chez les États membres et au sein du Secrétariat.
(24.21) Je voudrais profiter de cette occasion pour exprimer ma gratitude à Mme Eleonora Mitrofanova, Ambassadrice et  déléguée permanente de la Fédération de Russie auprès de l’UNESCO, pour sa détermination, en sa qualité de Présidente du  Conseil exécutif, à faire avancer le programme de réforme.   (Applaudissements)
(24.22) Mesdames et Messieurs, nous sommes animés d’une volonté inébranlable. J’ai procédé à la restructuration du  Secrétariat afin de recentrer les programmes, de supprimer les doublons et de réaliser des gains d’efficacité. J’ai réduit de  moitié le nombre des plates-formes intersectorielles et proposé pour la première fois que leur soient allouées des ressources  clairement définies. Nous travaillons à élaborer une stratégie sur les priorités de l’UNESCO avec et dans l’intérêt des pays  d’Afrique, en concertation avec les initiatives régionales et sous-régionales concernées.
(24.23) J’ai proposé avec insistance d’optimiser les consultations sur les documents С/5 et С/4 et de réduire les coûts. Nous  travaillons à clarifier les chaînes de responsabilités au Siège et entre le Siège et les unités hors Siège. Nous nous employons  à renforcer le rôle de nos bureaux de liaison. J’ai décidé de créer deux nouveaux bureaux, à Addis-Abeba et à Bruxelles, pour  développer notre coopération avec l’Union africaine et l’Union européenne.
(24.24) Je suis résolue à renforcer notre coopération avec les commissions nationales pour l’UNESCO. Nous devons tirer  un bien plus grand profit de ce réseau unique en son genre. C’est dans cet objectif que nous avons réexaminé la coopération  entre le Secrétariat et les commissions nationales.
(24.25) Je m’emploie à améliorer notre approche des partenariats stratégiques. Le projet de cadre directeur soumis à votre  examen définit des critères permettant de garantir une meilleure cohérence avec nos valeurs fondamentales et nos objectifs  prioritaires. Nous travaillons à développer de grands projets de partenariat avec le secteur privé. C’est ainsi que nous avons  conclu des accords avec Ria Novosti en Russie et Xinhua en Chine, de même qu’avec les grands quotidiens coréens Chosun  Ilbo et Dong-A Ilbo, et engagé une coopération avec Itunes University aux États-Unis, avec les clubs de football de Malaga en  Espagne et de Shenzhen en Chine, avec GEMS Education à Abou Dhabi, avec la Fondation Packard, avec Procter &  Gamble, ainsi qu’avec la Fondation Bill & Melinda Gates aux États-Unis, pour ne nommer que ceux-là.
(24.26) La commission « Le large bande au service du développement numérique », dont j’assure la vice-présidence avec  l’Union internationale des télécommunications, est une initiative originale visant à promouvoir la mise en place inclusive des  technologies à large bande dans le monde entier.
(24.27) Tous ces exemples démontrent, Mesdames et Messieurs, que l’UNESCO, en tant qu’organisation productrice de  résultats concrets, a gagné en crédibilité. Ils démontrent également notre volonté de nous concentrer sur ce que nous faisons  le mieux et de nous associer avec nos partenaires dans les domaines où ils peuvent apporter une précieuse contribution,  proposer des innovations. Plus que des ressources, les partenariats apportent surtout des idées et de l’expérience. Ils  renforcent notre impact sur le terrain et améliorent notre rayonnement. Nous ne les utilisons pas sporadiquement, mais au  contraire nous les inscrivons dans une stratégie visant à trouver de nouvelles façons de créer des biens publics mondiaux.
(24.28) Nous percevons également un regain de confiance chez les États membres. Ainsi, le Nigéria nous a confié le soin de  mettre en place un vaste programme d’alphabétisation sur son territoire. La Commission de l'Union économique et monétaire  ouest-africaine s’appuie sur l’UNESCO pour développer les technologies de l'information et de la communication dans les  universités ouest-africaines. Je suis déterminée à resserrer la coopération avec les organisations non gouvernementales. Le  projet de directives qui vous est présenté renforcera leur rôle à tous les stades de notre action.
(24.29) En tout cela, le personnel est notre plus grand atout. Je saisis cette occasion pour remercier tous les fonctionnaires au  Siège et hors Siège pour leur travail acharné et leur ferme engagement. Leur dévouement et leur compétence sont vitaux pour  l’efficacité de l’UNESCO.
(24.30) À sa dernière session, le Conseil exécutif a approuvé notre Stratégie relative à la gestion des ressources humaines  pour 2011-2016, telle qu’améliorée. Nous façonnons une nouvelle culture du travail. Des efforts considérables ont été  déployés par le Bureau de l’éthique. J’ai promulgué une politique de protection des personnes qui signalent des  comportements répréhensibles et de protection contre les représailles. Un programme de déclaration de situation financière  sera prochainement mis en place. Le Comité consultatif de surveillance est pleinement opérationnel. La récente évaluation de  la qualité a confirmé que le Service d’évaluation et d’audit – je cite « respectait généralement les normes » les plus élevées de  la profession, ce qui est la meilleure note. L’UNESCO est l’une des premières organisations des Nations Unies à appliquer les  Normes comptables internationales pour le secteur public (IPSAS).
(24.31) L’UNESCO doit faire preuve d’ouverture et de transparence. Nous prêtons une attention particulière aux délégations  des États membres – à l’intention desquelles nous avons lancé un site Web et organisons à régulièrement des réunions  d’information. J’ai lancé le nouveau mécanisme des Débats thématiques entre la Directrice générale et les délégations des  États membres afin que nous débattions ensemble des questions revêtant une priorité stratégique. Les premiers débats ont  porté sur l’Afrique, l’égalité des genres et les petits États insulaires en développement.  (La Directrice générale poursuit en anglais)
24.32 Ladies and gentlemen, field reform is vital for delivering our vision. This starts with Africa, our priority. The  Executive Board approved my proposal for a new field presence, whose structure is inspired by the groupings of the  African Union. The new architecture will sharpen our focus and reduce costs. But it is not just about where we put offices,  it is about how we use our presence, through strong regional centres and dedicated national offices and desks that are  designed to make the most of UNESCO’s multidisciplinary mandate. One size does not fit all. Reform will take regional  and national differences into account. I will ensure that there is appropriate staffing profile and numbers. Consultation  has been the hallmark of this process – with Member States, regional groups and within the Secretariat. I must say how  gratified I am by the engagement of African Member States. In the Draft Programme and Budget document, I have ring- fenced $9 million to ensure that we move forward. This reform will strengthen our delivery. It will also bolster our  contribution to “Delivering as One”. UNESCO is a strong partner in the reform of the United Nations – at the country level  and in major processes at the global level. I am deeply engaged in the Chief Executives Board (CEB) and in the Advisory  Group of the United Nations Development Group (UNDG). UNESCO co-manages the Interagency Task Force on  Gender Equality and Climate Change with the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP). I currently chair the  Global Migration Group (GMG), bringing together 16 intergovernmental and United Nations agencies involved in  migration. We co-sponsor the Intergovernmental Science-Policy Platform on Biodiversity and Ecosystems Services  (IPBES), with the United Nations Environment Programme (UNEP), the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP)  and the Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations (FAO). We are leading the work of the United Nations to  protect the safety of journalists across the world. We know they face increasing intimidation – not only in war settings but  also when reporting on local corruption and criminality. We organized the United Nations Inter-Agency Meeting on the  Safety of Journalists and the Issue of Impunity in Paris, held on 13 and 14 September, to develop a United Nations-wide  action plan to tackle these challenges – for the first time. So, ladies and gentlemen, this is a reform to perform, to deepen  our results. This was my pledge two years ago. I make this pledge again before you now. We are making headway. A  culture of change is taking root. This is just a start. I must say how much I appreciate the engagement of Member States.  Your leadership is crucial – especially regarding the Draft Programme and Budget for 2012-1013.
24.33 This General Conference will examine two proposals: a budget reflecting zero real growth of  $685.7 million, and  an alternative envelope of $653 million, reflecting zero nominal growth, which received the recommendation of the  Executive Board. In both cases, programme activities receive the lion’s share of resources. This is where the  overwhelming majority of our staff is engaged. I am sharply aware of the constraints facing all States and societies. I  have done my utmost to reflect this context. I have used every point of leverage inside the Organization to reduce  administrative costs, sharpen our focus on strategic priorities and strengthen programmatic activity. I am committed to  moving forward. However, we must be clear: a reduction of $32 million in real terms will hit hard. It will have an impact on  the scope, depth and intensity of our activities. UNESCO needs predictable funding at reasonable levels to meet the  ambitions of our mandate. Difficult times call for more UNESCO, not less. Difficult times call for a better UNESCO. I have  struck this balance in the Draft Programme and Budget documents. Two years ago, I said the global crisis is compelling  us to reposition UNESCO around its mandate. This is ever truer today. Our mandate in education, culture, the sciences  and communication is vital to protect human dignity, to enhance human capacity, to strengthen the ties of solidarity. We  bring sustainability to all development initiatives and we lay the ground for a culture of peace. The Draft Programme and  Budget documents reflect this vision. We will take forward our priorities in Africa and gender equality. We will promote  work across sectors – to tackle the impacts of climate change, to fight HIV/AIDS, to support countries in post-conflict and
35  disaster situations. We will focus on youth, the least-developed countries (LDCs) and small island developing States  (SIDS). We will deepen equity, inclusion and quality in education and lifelong learning. We will strengthen science,  technology and innovation in national policies, especially in African countries. We will promote the sustainable  management of the ocean and freshwater. We will support societies in transformation, to take forward aspirations for  human rights. We will place culture squarely on the development agenda, and promote cultural heritage and expressions  of cultural diversity as sources of strength. We will stand up for freedom of expression everywhere and work to bridge the  digital divide. This is my vision for the next two years. All of this will allow us to lead globally where our mandate calls for  this. All of this will strengthen UNESCO as an essential pillar of an international order that must remain based on both  rules and values. This will position all of us to define clear lines for the next Medium-Term Strategy. This work starts now.
24.34 At the same time, ladies and gentlemen, I see also immediate areas for action. The first concerns credibility.  Credibility is our greatest asset. We cannot afford its erosion. We must build on it to strengthen our impact and visibility in  the world. A case in point is our work in world heritage. This General Conference will launch celebrations of the 40th  anniversary of the 1972 Convention for the Protection of the World Cultural and Natural Heritage. The 35th session of the  World Heritage Committee brought the total of sites to 936. I heard many concerns then about credibility. During the  Conference, new members to the World Heritage Committee will be elected. They will have the task of protecting the  credibility of the Convention as we approach the one thousand mark. But this is also true for the 2003 Convention for the  Safeguarding of the Intangible Cultural Heritage. Another vital area for our credibility and visibility concerns the work of  UNESCO’s Intergovernmental Oceanographic Commission (IOC). This is one of our flagships, working to improve  knowledge of the marine environment at the service of intergovernmental cooperation. On 12 October, we launched an  Indian Ocean tsunami exercise and we inaugurated the Regional Tsunami Advisory Services Provider (RTSP) for the  Indian Ocean, thanks to the leadership of the National Tsunami Warning Centres (NTWCs) of Australia, India and  Indonesia. This marked the culmination of six years of work following the devastating tsunami of 26 December, 2004. A  new era of cooperation has opened around the Indian Ocean. This is UNESCO performing precisely as it should –  providing impetus and expertise to produce unique collective public goods. We must build on this foundation.
24.35 Leadership is a second immediate line of action. We celebrate this year the 10th anniversary of the UNESCO  Universal Declaration on Cultural Diversity. This decade has shown the importance of the Declaration, which provides a  framework of values and principles on cultural diversity and a guide to greater cooperation. Times call on us to do far  more to respect, promote and implement the Declaration. We must make the most of our cultural diversity as a source of  common strength.
24.36 We must strengthen further our leadership in education. Our vision of integrated lifelong learning fits exactly the  needs of knowledge-based societies in a world of change. We must take this beyond education circles. We will continue  to focus strategically – on priority countries and on the building blocks of literacy, teachers, technical and vocational  education and training (TVET), and sector-wide policy. We will push forward on early childhood care and education and  on higher education. But the literacy challenge still remains paramount. The United Nations Literacy Decade, closing this  year, has created momentum matched by real commitment. We see positive change in a number of the 35 countries  benefiting from the Literacy Initiative for Empowerment. The E9 Initiative, bringing together ministers from the high- population countries home to 70% of the world’s adult illiterates, has gained in strength, with a concrete framework for  action adopted in Abuja in 2010 that sharpens efforts towards universal literacy. The year 2012 is an important year for  technical and vocational education. The Third International Congress on Technical and Vocational Education and  Training, in Shanghai, China, on 14-16 May 2012, is a key opportunity. We will spare no efforts to support States in  reaching the Millennium Development Goals (MDGs) and education for all (EFA) by the year 2015. At the same time, we  recognize that the post-2015 agenda starts now. We must ensure that our vision of education as bringing sustainability to  development has a central place on the post-2015 global agenda. UNESCO’s leadership is also intellectual. As I said  earlier, our 2011 Education for All Global Monitoring Report (GMR) mobilized global policy to protect schools in conflicts.  Our 2012 report will do the same on youth, skills and work. Our world reports on science, engineering, the social  sciences, and cultural diversity untangle complex issues and set the agenda for better policy. This week, the UNESCO  Institute for Statistics (UIS) will release a report on secondary education across the world. On 12 March 2012, we will  launch the fourth edition of the United Nations World Water Development Report (WWDR) at the Sixth World Water  Forum in Marseille, France. Hosted and led by UNESCO, the United Nations World Water Assessment Programme  brings 28 UN-Water organizations and partners together to produce this triennial review of the state, use and  management of the world’s freshwater resources. Through this work, we set benchmarks, we generate new ideas and  we point to better collective action. We will build thus on this unique intellectual and moral leadership.
24.37 And then, ladies and gentlemen, maximal impact – this must be our third immediate focus. 2012 will be the year  of Rio+20 – the United Nations Conference on Sustainable Development. Rio+20 must succeed. UNESCO will bring to  Rio a roadmap for sustainable development that makes the most of the transformative power of education, the sciences,  culture and media. Our message is clear – we must build inclusive and equitable “green societies” along with “green  economies.” Education for sustainable development (ESD) must foster the values, attitudes and behaviours for a new  culture of sustainability. Science must be mobilized to find innovative answers to complex challenges. Culture must be  integrated into all development initiatives. The media must help build awareness and inform policies. We must promote  social inclusion through integrated policies. Sustainability comes from working on all of these levels – this is UNESCO’s  unique contribution. This means making more of the World Network of Biosphere Reserves (WNBR), the World Heritage  Convention (WHC), and the UNESCO Biodiversity Initiative. We are working all of these angles, which are presented in  our new publication entitled, “From Green Economies to Green Societies”. Our Intergovernmental Oceanographic  Commission (IOC) is coordinating the United Nations inter-agency paper towards the preparation of Rio+20 “A Blueprint  for Ocean and Coastal Sustainability”. In September, I signed an agreement with all relevant actors on the  implementation of the Strategic Plan for Biodiversity 2011-2020 and the achievement of the 2020 Aichi Biodiversity
36  Targets, on the margins of the United Nations General Assembly session. All of this fits into UNESCO’s climate change  initiative I promised two years ago. In Rio, UNESCO must help to set the global agenda for sustainable development. We  must also continue to work where needs are acute.
24.38 We should not need to have “water in our living rooms”, as the President of the Maldives said recently, to  understand the reality of climate change. This is why we are deeply engaged in supporting small island developing  States (SIDS) – to adapt to the impacts of climate change on coastal systems, economies and societies through  education, social inclusion, support to local knowledge systems, coastal monitoring and engagement with young people.  In this respect, I wish to pay, once again, a special tribute to His Excellency Mr Davidson Hepburn, former President of  the General Assembly and Ambassador of the Bahamas to UNESCO. His strong leadership and clear vision have  sharpened UNESCO’s action with small island developing States. Thank you enormously, Ambassador Hepburn.
24.39 So, ladies and gentlemen, we are living in times of vast opportunity for human development and also of great  turbulence and uncertainty. The United Nations system and indeed multilateralism as whole, are being severely tested.  This calls for action. This compels us to rethink our approach to human development. Culture, the sciences, education  and communication must lie at the heart of this rethink. These are the foundations for peace and sustainable  development – today, and for the century ahead. We must live up to the ambitions of our 1945 Constitution. But it is not  enough simply to assert the relevance of our message. We must deliver on it, in a world that is changing profoundly.  History is in movement. UNESCO must be at the heart of this movement because no society stands alone. No country  stands by itself. We all stand together. The great poet, Rabindranath Tagore, wrote that the truth of the world lies, and I  quote, “not in the masses of substance, not in the number of things, but in their relatedness, which neither can be  counted, nor measured, nor abstracted”. This “relatedness”, this unity of the world, is the essence of my appeal for a  “new humanism”. This begins with human dignity, with the empowerment of every woman and man to imagine a better  world and have the tools to shape it. This is the basis to rethink the paradigm of development, to ensure equal rights and  opportunities for every girl and woman, every boy and man, to build just, equitable and inclusive societies, to protect and  share the heritage and expressions of every culture, to ensure freedom of expression for all, and to safeguard the world’s  biodiversity. The stakes of peace and development today lie precisely in education, the sciences, culture and  communication and information. We are living in extraordinary times. This is why UNESCO has never been so vital. This  is why, today, I am even more passionate about our mission than ever before. It has never been so important. I thank  you for your attention.
25. The President:   Thank you very much, Madam Director-General. Allow me to congratulate you for this most comprehensive  report and introduction and a real kick-off to the general policy debate, which represents a constructive input for our  forthcoming work and attests to your commitment and to the work accomplished.  Announcements  Annonces  Anuncios  Сообщения   إعالنات 通知
26.1. The President:   Your Excellencies, distinguished delegates, ladies and gentlemen, we have now come to the end of our second  plenary meeting of this General Conference. I shall adjourn the meeting, which will resume tomorrow morning for the  Leaders’ Forum at 9.30 a.m. I would like to kindly ask all delegates to be in their seats by 9.15 a.m. in order to enable us  to start our work on time, and welcome the Heads of State and Government. I also wish to remind the members of the  General Committee that the Committee will hold its first meeting tomorrow morning between 8.30 a.m. and 9.15 a.m. in  Room X. There is much to be done in the allotted 45 minutes, so, if I may ask you, please be there on time.
26.2 Before adjourning the meeting, I wish to give the floor to the Secretary for a brief announcement. Mr Millward,  you have the floor.
27. Le Secrétaire :  Merci, Madame la Présidente. Je voulais simplement vous rappeler que l’inauguration de l’exposition  L'UNESCO ouverte (Open UNESCO) aura lieu dans environ cinq minutes dans le hall Ségur, c'est-à-dire, quand vous  sortez de cette salle, vers la gauche. Vous êtes bien sûr tous cordialement invités et la réception d’ouverture aura lieu en  présence de Son Excellence, le Président de la République de Hongrie, à 7 heures et demie, devant la Salle I. Merci,  Madame la Présidente.
28. The President:   Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you very much for your attention. I wish you a very good  evening. The meeting is adjourned.   The meeting rose at 6.25 p.m.  La séance est levée à 18 h 25  Se levanta la sesión a las 18.25  Заседание закрывается в 18.25  الظهر بعد ٦,٢٥اسلسة يف الساعة  رفعت   会议于 18 时 25 分结束