1.1 The President:   Your Excellencies, ladies and gentlemen, dear friends, as we are looking forward to a long but very interesting  afternoon, with a kind of surprise towards the end, for as you see there is a piano on the stage already, I declare open  the seventeenth plenary meeting which is the last of this 36th session of the General Conference.
1.2 We still have some work to do. Before we can go back to our respective countries and delegations, we need to  examine the remaining reports of commissions and committees and adopt the Appropriation Resolution. But first, I  suggest that we pay tribute to the President of the 35th session of the General Conference, Mr Davidson Hepburn. The  General Committee, at its last meeting, on Tuesday, acknowledged the wisdom and panache with which Davidson  presided over the Conference and it therefore recommended that the plenary adopt the draft resolution contained in  document 36 C/PLEN/DR.3.
1.3 Dear colleagues, if you so permit, I will read the text of this resolution. “Tribute to the President of the 35th  session of the General Conference. The General Conference, Mindful of the fact that H.E. Dr Davidson L. Hepburn  concluded his term of office as President of the General Conference at the opening of the 36th session, Noting with  appreciation the efforts deployed by him to enhance the image and visibility of UNESCO by challenging Member States  to “think outside the box” and dare to take risks in the implementation of their decisions, Recognizing his constant  adherence to the ideals of UNESCO and his significant contribution towards the pursuit of the Organization’s objectives,  Recalling the importance he has attached to effective working relations between UNESCO’s three organs, Emphasizing  the singular contribution he has made to encourage greater participation by small nations and particularly small island  developing States (SIDS) in the decision-making of UNESCO, Acknowledging the wisdom, forthrightness, diplomatic  savoir-faire and panache with which he has carried out his responsibilities, Conveys its high esteem and gratitude to H.E.  Dr Davidson L. Hepburn for the invaluable services and contributions he has rendered to UNESCO.”
1.4 Ladies and gentlemen, I believe I may take it that the General Conference adopts this resolution by acclamation.   (Applause)
1.5 It is so decided. I would like to ask you, Mr Hepburn, if you would like to say a few words or are you happy?
2. Mr Hepburn (Bahamas) (President of the 35th session of the General Conference):   You know that I am a man of few words and all I want to say is thank you very much for everything that I have  experienced here. May God bless you.  Draft resolutions recommended to the General Conference (continued)  Projets de résolution recommandés à la Conférence générale (suite)  Proyectos de resolución recomendados a la Conferencia General (continuación)  Проекты резолюций, представленные Генеральной конференции (продолжение)  )تابعجالمؤتمر العام باعتمادها  ت اللجانأوصالقرارات التي  مشروعات   向大会建议的决议草案（续）  Report of the Culture Commission (CLT) (36 C/74)  Rapport de la Commission Culture (CLT) (36 C/74)  Informe de la Comisión de Cultura (CLT) (36 C/74)  Доклад Комиссии по культуре (CLT) (36 C/74)  © W�UI��« WM' d�dI�CLT ®©≥∂ØÂ∑¥®  文化委员会（CLT）的报告（36 C/74）
(4.1) Mr Satti (Sudan) (Chair of the CLT Commission ‒ Culture) (translation from the Arabic):   Thank you, Madam President. Distinguished members of the General Conference, I am pleased to present to you,  Madam President, the report of the CLT Commission at the 36th session of the General Conference. Allow me at the outset to  offer thanks and appreciation to the distinguished members of the Committee for their effective participation and full engage- ment and cooperation with me in completing the work of the CLT Commission within the time allotted to it. I should also like to  express my thanks and appreciation to the members of the Bureau, who were elected at the first meeting of the Commission:  Ms Sina Baydur of Turkey, Ms Savitri Suwansathit of Thailand, Mr Marcelo Vásquez Bermúdez of Ecuador, and Mr Jean- Marie Adoua of Congo, as Vice-Chairs, and Ms Oleksandra Kovalova as Rapporteur.   (The speaker continues in English)
4.2 Madam President, at its first meeting the Commission had the opportunity to listen to Mr Miika Tomi,  representative of the Youth Forum, who presented the Forum’s recommendations relating to Major Programme IV. By  warmly welcoming the recommendations of the Forum, the Member States fully endorsed the observations and the  recommendations made in their deliberations. Youth delegates were commended for the quality and soundness of their  proposals. The key role that youth can play in the promotion of cultural diversity, intercultural dialogue and culture of  peace was also acknowledged.
4.3 The examination of the Draft Programme and Budget for 2012-2013, item 4.2, was introduced by the  representative of the Director-General, Mr Hans d’Orville, Assistant Director-General for Strategic Planning, and  Mr Francisco Bandarin, Assistant Director-General for Culture. The Forum provided an overview of the general  framework and the strategic relevance of draft document 36 C/5. The Assistant Director-General for Culture recalled that  the Culture Sector is committed to advocating the pivotal role of culture for development, social cohesion and dialogue  through the recognition and promotion of cultural diversity and cultural heritage in its multi-form manifestations.
4.4 During the first and second meetings of the Commission, a total of 50 Member States, one observer and one  international non-governmental organization took the floor and delivered their general statements on draft document
36 C/5 for Major Programme IV. All Member States reiterated their support for the zero nominal growth draft programme  as reflected in the Draft Programme and Budget for 2012-2013 presented in document 36 C/5 Addendum. Member  States also stressed the importance they attached to the implementation of all seven UNESCO conventions making up  the Organization’s standard-setting framework in the field of culture. They emphasized the relevance of the conventions  as a unique vector of social and economic development, reaching far beyond their statutory mechanisms, touching also  upon the role they play in fostering greater international cooperation. Many delegates acknowledged the efforts deployed  by the Director-General in promoting the role of culture for development and called for a greater accent to be placed on  such programmes and projects that fall under the effective implementation of the comprehensive international standard- setting framework covered by the Culture Sector of UNESCO.
4.5 As regards the implementation of the 1972 World Heritage Convention, a number of Member States underlined  the significance of the upcoming 40th anniversary of this landmark instrument and called for greater involvement of local  communities in the protection and management of world heritage properties. While expressing their concerns about the  large number of properties inscribed on the World Heritage List – let us recall that we are fast approaching the 1,000th  inscription – some speakers stressed the need to strengthen the List’s balance, representativeness and overall credibility  by encouraging inscriptions from under-represented regions and categories. This would eventually ensure the  establishment of a more representative and balanced List.
4.6 Regarding the 2003 Convention for the Safeguarding of the Intangible Cultural Heritage, numerous delegations  highlighted the importance of capacity building for its implementation at the national level, with particular emphasis on  three priorities: (i) the identification of intangible heritage elements; (ii) developing appropriate legislative and  administrative frameworks; and (iii) the design of appropriate educational modules.
4.7 The majority of the delegates who took the floor commended the Director-General for bolstering UNESCO’s  initiatives aimed at ensuring more effective implementation of the 1970 Convention on the Means of Prohibiting and  Preventing the Illicit Import, Export and Transfer of Ownership of Cultural Property. A number of Member States also  noted that the celebration of that Convention’s 40th anniversary helped build a momentum that greatly enhanced its  visibility as well as global awareness of the fight against the trafficking of cultural property. In this regard, some concern  was expressed by delegates about the need to ensure adequate resources for the 1970 Convention.
4.8 Many delegations underlined the relevance of the 2005 Convention on the Protection and Promotion of the  Diversity of Cultural Expressions and its key role in fostering creative industries as drivers of social cohesion and  sustainable local development. Reference was made to the importance of providing technical assistance to Member  States in developing legal, institutional and human capacities to promote cultural industries and design innovative cultural  policies and strategies.
4.9 A number of Member States expressed their support for the “Seoul Agenda: Goals for the Development of Arts  Education”, and reiterated the importance of implementing the recommendations and the roadmap issued by the World  Conferences on Arts Education. They also strongly recommended concerted intersectoral cooperation between the  Culture and Education Sectors, in order to incorporate arts education into the development of ad hoc curricula and  training modules. UNESCO’s key role in strengthening cooperation among teachers, artists, researchers, associations  and community networks was also highlighted.
4.10 Most of the speakers recalled the pivotal role of multilingualism as an invaluable tool for fostering intercultural  dialogue and ensuring the promotion of cultural diversity, especially in consideration of the ever-growing homogenization  of cultural expressions. Many Member States called upon UNESCO to strengthen its action to promote linguistic diversity  and preserve indigenous and endangered languages.
4.11 Several Member States felt that UNESCO should strengthen its efforts to address Africa as a global priority  and to support the African continent in the enhanced implementation of the cultural conventions, notably the 1972, 2003  and 2005 conventions. Broad support was voiced for the General History of Africa as a crucial pedagogical tool for  facilitating closer exchanges and joint international research projects on the African diaspora.
4.12 In his reply after the general debate, the Assistant Director-General for Culture noted increasing evidence in  the international arena that the fundamental principles of UNESCO’s culture programme (cultural diversity, intercultural  dialogue and the promotion of cultural heritage and creative industries) were making a significant contribution towards  the building of more peaceful, prosperous and cohesive societies, while addressing the needs of marginalized groups  including women, youth and indigenous peoples. Mr Bandarin appreciated the overwhelming support expressed by the  Member States for UNESCO’s efforts to further explore the contributions of the cultural conventions to sustainable  development, through activities fostering innovative national development policies. He acknowledged the alignment  between the Director-General’s proposals and intentions in respect of the Draft Programme and Budget and those  expressed by the majority of Member States as regards the reinforcement of the 1970 and the 2005 conventions, taking  note of the indications formulated by a significant number of delegations to further reinforce the two conventions.
4.13 Following the exchange of views, the Commission proceeded to examine and approve eight draft resolutions  on the Draft Programme and Budget for 2012-2013 (36 C/5) submitted by Member States. This was done in the light of  the recommendation of the Executive Board on document 36 C/6 and 36 C/6 Add. and the observations of the Director- General contained in document 36 C/8/CLT. You will find the recommendations of the Culture Commission on these draft  resolutions in the written report of the Commission (document 36 C/74) which takes into account statements made by a  number of delegations.
4.14 In accordance with and following the approval of draft resolutions 49 and 54, it was decided to transfer  resources amounting to $700,000 from main lines of action (MLAs) 5 and 6 to MLA 2, and $800,000 from MLA 5 to MLA
4. This is not reflected in the appropriation paragraph appearing in the resolution, since, according to decisions taken by  the General Conference, the appropriation at the main line of action level is reflected in Volume II of the C/5 document.  But, as stated in the report, these draft resolutions were approved with strong support by the Commission and, should  the General Conference adopt the present report now, the Director-General will reflect, in Volume II of document 36 C/5  Approved, the corresponding changes in the appropriation of the different main lines of action of Major Programme IV  resulting from these decisions.
4.15 The Commission then moved to the consideration of item 5.13 on the implementation of the “Seoul Agenda:  Goals for the Development of Arts Education”, the outcome document of the Second World Conference on Arts  Education. Twenty-six Member States took the floor and expressed overwhelming support for the implementation of the  Seoul Agenda and the roadmap resulting from the World Conferences on Arts Education. It warmly thanked the Republic  of Korea for facilitating the implementation of such an important process and welcomed the organization of the Third  World Conference. While reiterating the importance of high-quality arts education for all and with a view to strengthening  cooperation among the various stakeholders, the Commission acknowledged the role of the networks of UNESCO Arts  Education Observatories and Chairs and DREAM Centres. It also proclaimed the fourth week in May International Arts  Education Week, welcomed as a full-fledged initiative to promote arts and creativity for the well-being of individuals and  communities.
4.16 The Commission concluded its first debate by recommending that the General Conference approve the budget  provision of $52,213,200 for Major Programme IV, corresponding to $15,708,400 for total programme activities and  $36,504,800 for staff costs, as indicated in the relevant paragraph of document 36 C/5 Add. for Major Programme IV,  taking into account what I have previously stated regarding budget transfers between MLAs. It was specified that the  indicated amount is subject to adjustment in the light of the decision taken by the General Conference on the budget  ceiling and by the joint meeting of the Programme and Administrative Commissions.
4.17 In its second debate, the Commission examined items 5.9 and 5.29. The Commission considered the relevant  proposals for the establishment of the following five centres/institutes as category 2 centres under the auspices of  UNESCO upon recommendation of the Executive Board at its 186th and 187th sessions: the International Centre for  Women Artists, in Amman, Jordan; the International Research Centre on the Economics of Culture and World Heritage  Studies, in Turin, Italy; the International Language Centre in Reykjavik, Iceland; the Regional Centre for Contemporary  Art, in Doha, Qatar; and the International Centre for Rock Art and the World Heritage Convention, in Spain.
4.18 No debate took place on these items and the Commission recommended to the General Conference at its  plenary session the adoption of the draft resolutions in document 36 C/29, Parts VII, VIII, IX, XIII and XVI.
4.19 As regards item 5.29, on the Proclamation of International Jazz Day on 30 April of each year, the representative  of the United States of America took the floor and emphasized that the proclamation of this Day would raise awareness  of the role of jazz music in spreading the universal values related to UNESCO’s mandate. No debate took place on this  item, which the Commission adopted by acclamation.
4.20 In its third debate, the Commission considered two agenda items: Proclamation of an international decade for  the rapprochement of cultures (2013-2022) (item 5.19), together with an additional resolution pertaining to the same item;  and item 5.20 on the Universal Forum of Cultures – Naples 2013.
4.21 On item 5.19, the representatives of 39 Member States and of one non-governmental organization took the floor,  nourishing a very rich debate on the potential links of such a decade with other framework activities related to a culture of  peace and to intercultural dialogue. A number of Member States from Latin America and the Caribbean emphasized the  importance of the African legacy in shaping their cultures and societies and proudly underlined their historical and
411  ancestral links with Africa. While several delegations recognized that the proclamation of the decade would further foster  international cooperation and enhance intercultural dialogue, other speakers pointed out the possible overlap with the  relevant activities implemented within the framework of the Alliance of Civilizations (UNAOC), and noted that the human  rights dimension was not explicitly highlighted. A few delegations expressed their wishes that youth be fully involved in  activities of the decade. Many pointed out the religious dimension of the decade, as well as the dimension of  multilingualism. It was also pointed out that both the General History of Africa and the General History of the Caribbean  should be integrated into the decade, thus better reflecting the legacy of African civilization and its consequences for the  history and cultural identity of Latin America and the Caribbean. The Bolivarian Republic of Venezuela announced that it  would fund the Spanish translation of the General History of Africa and the United Republic of Tanzania offered its  expertise for the translation of the collection into Swahili.
4.22 While the majority of Member States expressed their support for the proclamation of the decade, a number of  delegates voiced their concern about the lack of a clear action plan and implementation strategy. Some speakers, while  acknowledging the role that such initiatives can play in fostering intercultural dialogue and the principle that inspired the  initiative, considered that a decision on this matter was premature without clear indications on the timeframe, financial  implications, scope and distribution.
4.23 In their statements, several delegates also expressed their views on item 5.20 on the Universal Forum of  Cultures to be held in Naples, Italy, in 2013. Building on the achievements of previous universal forums of cultures  (Barcelona 2004, Monterrey 2007 and Valparaiso 2010), the event will focus on the themes of sustainable development,  knowledge management, cultural expressions and a culture of peace. All the Member States which took the floor  welcomed the proposal submitted by Italy and recommended to the General Conference at its plenary session the  adoption of the relevant draft resolution without amendment.
4.24 In our fourth debate, the Commission examined item 8.1 – Proposal concerning the desirability of a standard- setting instrument on the historic urban landscape and item 8.2 – Preliminary study of the technical and legal aspects of  a possible international standard-setting instrument for the protection of indigenous and endangered languages,  including a study of the outcomes of the programmes implemented by UNESCO relating to this issue.
4.25 Forty-one Member States commended the quality of the text of the proposed recommendation, as it would  support Member States’ efforts in developing policies and good practices for the management and effective conservation  of their historic urban areas. Such policies and practices could then be adapted to each national context.
4.26 The delegations appreciated the integrated, inclusive and forward-looking nature of the text, which would serve  to guide Member States in their challenging task of safeguarding historic cities in an era of unprecedented globalization,  urbanization and climate change. Some delegates reminded us that this instrument is very timely in light of the fact that  more and more countries and cities will be affected by floods of various kinds owing to global warming and uncontrolled  development. It was further noted that traditional knowledge about natural phenomena and coping with climate change  and natural disasters in a sustainable manner should be a part of every region’s culture. It was approved by acclamation.
4.27 Sixteen Member States and one international governmental organization took the floor on item 8.2. After a rich  debate, most of the delegations agreed on the need to take urgent action to promote multilingualism and to urgently  preserve indigenous and endangered languages. A few delegates reiterated that UNESCO should concentrate on the  implementation of the existing instruments in favour of endangered languages, rather than creating new ones, and  supported the adoption of the original text of the draft resolution contained in document 36 C/24. However, it was noted  that no international normative instrument dealing specifically with languages exists at the present time.
4.28 After the clarification provided by the Legal Adviser on the Rules of Procedure concerning recommendations to  Member States and international conventions covered by the terms of Article IV, paragraph 4, of the Constitution and on  the status of the preliminary study in the process of preparation of a normative instrument, a consensus emerged in  favour of a broader and more encompassing study that should also address multilingualism and other related issues “that  are affecting and threatening the survival of endangered and indigenous languages”. The Commission accordingly  recommended the adoption of the draft resolution contained in document 36 C/24, as amended.   (The speaker continues in French)
4.29 Madame la Présidente, le cinquième débat portait sur deux points de l’ordre du jour : la protection et la  promotion du patrimoine et des collections des musées (point 5.16) et la promotion de la diversité des expressions  culturelles, de leur protection et de la lutte contre la piraterie sur Internet (point 5.21). La Commission a recommandé à la  Conférence générale d’amender les deux projets de résolution, y compris dans leur libellé. En ce qui concerne le  point 5.16, des opinions et des approches différentes de la définition du patrimoine muséologique ont donné lieu à un vif  débat. Il a été décidé, par conséquent, qu’une part de la réunion d’experts proposée dans la résolution serait consacrée  à l’examen des présupposés contenus dans l’expression « patrimoine muséologique ». Un texte de consensus a été  rédigé immédiatement après la clôture de la session. C’est ce texte qui est proposé à la Conférence générale pour  approbation.
4.30 En ce qui concerne le point 5.21, la plupart des délégués, tout en reconnaissant l’importance d’une initiative  tendant à explorer les moyens de combattre la piraterie sur Internet et tout en appréciant l’offre généreuse de la Grèce,  ont fait valoir que des initiatives de cette nature devaient être envisagées dans le cadre des instances internationales  compétentes, en particulier l’OMPI, l’Organisme des Nations Unies spécialisé dans la protection de la propriété  intellectuelle.
4.31 Le Secrétariat a rappelé que les activités de l’Observatoire mondial de lutte contre la piraterie avaient dû être  suspendues en raison de ressources humaines et financières insuffisantes. Les États membres qui ont pris la parole  sont convenus de supprimer la référence explicite à la Convention de 2005 et ont recommandé que la Conférence  générale adopte la résolution telle qu’amendée afin de refléter le sens du débat, les participants ayant souligné la  nécessité d’une coopération approfondie dans ce domaine.
4.32 Dans le cadre de notre sixième débat, la Commission a pris note des rapports des comités  intergouvernementaux des Conventions de 1972, 1970 et 2003, à savoir : le rapport du Comité intergouvernemental de  la protection du patrimoine mondial culturel et naturel sur ses activités (2010-2011); le rapport du Comité  intergouvernemental pour la promotion du retour de biens culturels à leur pays d’origine ou de leur restitution en cas  d’appropriation illégale sur ses activités ; le rapport du Comité intergouvernemental de sauvegarde du patrimoine culturel  immatériel sur ses activités ; le rapport sur les amendements aux Statuts du Fonds international pour la promotion de la  culture (FIPC).  (L’orateur poursuit en anglais)
4.33 Regarding the last report, while recognizing the importance of reactivating the Statutes of the International Fund  for the Protection of Culture (IFPC) with an emphasis on its intellectual and operational autonomy, some Member States  raised questions regarding the methodology followed by the Executive Board for the revision of the Statutes of the Fund;  the respective roles of the UNESCO Secretariat and the Secretariat of the Fund; and the role of the Administrative  Council, whose administrative and financial prerogatives must be clearly reaffirmed. I have to say that this was a matter  of concern and I promised that the matter would be raised with the Director-General in order to see how the Fund would  be relaunched in the best possible circumstances.
4.34 In our final debate, the Commission examined item 5.2 on Jerusalem and the implementation of 35 C/Resolution
49, and item 5.3 on the implementation of 35 C/Resolution 75 concerning educational and cultural institutions in the  occupied Arab territories. Both items were approved by consensus and without debate.
4.35 Madam President, allow me to conclude by thanking all of my colleagues in the Commission once again for the  spirit of cooperation and constructive dialogue that prevailed throughout our work. I would also like to express my  gratitude to the secretariat of the Commission, under the able leadership of Ms Isabelle Vinson, and to the Assistant  Director-General for Culture, the Assistant Director-General for Strategic Planning, the Legal Adviser and all members of  the Secretariat who supported us in this work. And finally, I would like to thank you, Madam President, for your wise  leadership of our work. Thank you very much.
5. The President:   Thank you very much, Your Excellency. Are there any comments or suggestions on document 36 C/74? I give  the floor to Mali.
6. Mali :   Madame la Présidente, je voudrais remercier le Président de la Commission Culture et toute son équipe pour  cet excellent travail et appeler l’attention sur un détail qui nous a échappé à tous, compte tenu certainement de l’intensité  des travaux de cette commission. S’agissant de l’Histoire générale de l’Afrique, il est dit que « la Tanzanie a offert son  expertise pour la traduction en kiswahili ». Je pense que l’honorable délégué de Tanzanie a plutôt voulu rappeler, pour  montrer l’importance de l’Histoire générale de l’Afrique, que son pays « avait » offert son expertise pour la traduction en  kiswahili, car celle-ci existe déjà. Peut-être faut-il le corriger dans le rapport final. Merci beaucoup, Monsieur le Président  et Madame la Présidente.
7. The President:    Thank you very much. We will deal with that according to your wish. Any other comments? France.
8. France :   Merci, Madame la Présidente. À mon tour, je voudrais remercier le Président de la Commission Culture pour  l’excellence de son rapport et la façon tout à fait extraordinaire dont il a conduit nos travaux. Concernant le rapport que  nous examinons maintenant, le document 36 C/74, je voudrais corriger ou apporter un élément factuel qui ne me semble  pas y figurer, au paragraphe 13 de la page 2 de la version française. À l’alinéa (i) (en chiffre romain) est mentionné le  projet de résolution 35 C/DR.54. Je souhaiterais que les spécifications de ce projet de résolution soient reprises dans le  libellé, c’est-à-dire qu’on indique bien que le transfert de 800 000 dollars de l’axe d’action 5 vers l’axe d’action 4, qui est  l’objet même de ce projet de résolution, a bien été approuvé. Merci.
9. The President:    May I ask the Chairperson, please, for his comments? Thank you.
10. M. Satti (Soudan) (Président de la Commission Culture) :   Personnellement, je n’y vois aucun inconvénient. J’accueille donc favorablement cette proposition  d’amendement.
11. The President:   Thank you very much. It will be done. Any other comments? Switzerland.
12. Suisse :   Merci, Madame la Présidente. Je dois dire que j’ai exactement le même problème que mon collègue français,  mais j’aimerais obtenir une explication supplémentaire. En effet, le paragraphe 14 du document 36 C/74 mentionne la  Priorité sectorielle biennale 2 et – à l’alinéa c – on peut lire ce qui suit : « à allouer à cette fin un montant de
15 708 400 dollars pour les coûts d’activité et de 36 504 800 dollars pour les coûts de personnel. On me dit – d’où mon  étonnement – que cela ne reflète pas, à mon sens en tout cas, la discussion que nous avons eue au sujet du transfert de  ces montants, et on me dit qu’on ne peut insérer cette modification qu’au paragraphe 13, auquel mon collègue français a  fait référence. J’aimerais donc, en premier lieu, obtenir à ce sujet une explication d’une personne compétente en la  matière et, en second lieu, demander – comme mon collègue français vient de le faire – que soit mentionnée  explicitement la modification qui a finalement été approuvé en ce qui concerne le projet de résolution 35 C/DR.49, à  l’alinéa (i) du paragraphe 13 (troisième tiret), à savoir qu’un montant de 700 000 dollars doit être transféré des axes  d’action 5 et 6 à l’axe d’action 2. Si cela était possible, j’en serais fort aise. Merci, Madame la Présidente.
13. The President:   Thank you very much. I would like to give the floor to the Chairperson, please.
14. M. Satti (Soudan) (Président de la Commission Culture) :   Pour le deuxième point, distingué délégué de la Suisse, je ne vois aucun problème. Aussi, comme nous l’avons  fait à la demande du distingué délégué de la France, on pourra effectivement insérer le montant à l’endroit souhaité. En  ce qui concerne le premier point, je crois que cela dépasse ma compétence en tant que Président de la Commission  Culture : il s’agit là, semble-t-il, d’une question statutaire qui relève du Règlement de la Conférence générale et du  Règlement financier. D’après ce qui m’a été expliqué, nous adoptons une enveloppe budgétaire globale et il est d’usage  de ne pas en refléter le détail sous la forme d’une ventilation du budget. Mais étant donné que je ne suis pas expert en la  matière, peut-être le Secrétariat de la Conférence générale pourra-t-il répondre sur ce point. Merci beaucoup.
15. The President:    Thank you very much. I would like to give the floor to the Secretary of the General Conference. Please, the floor  is yours.
16. Le Secrétaire :   Merci, Madame la Présidente. Oui, c’est effectivement une question un peu technique qui porte sur la manière  dont il est rendu compte de toutes les décisions de la Conférence générale. Je voulais juste rappeler deux ou trois points.  Premièrement, c’est la Conférence générale elle-même qui a décidé que les projets d’amendement porteraient sur les  textes des projets de résolution contenus dans le volume 1 du C/5. Pour cette raison, il n’est pas possible de refléter  explicitement dans le libellé de la résolution adoptée les transferts de ressources financières entre axes d’action que  votre Commission est en train de recommander. En second lieu, je voudrais rappeler qu’une fois que cette Conférence  aura été clôturée, le travail du Secrétariat ne sera bien sûr pas terminé : il commencera. Non seulement il faudra donner  effet à toutes les décisions de la Conférence générale mais il faudra les refléter dans le document C/5 Approuvé. Et c’est  dans ce document C/5 Approuvé, qui contiendra les volumes 1 et 2 du C/5, que vous verrez reflétés les transferts que  vous recommandez. Merci, Madame la Présidente.
17. The President:    I would like to give the floor to my colleague, the Swiss Ambassador. Please, your reply.
18. Suisse :   Je veux juste vous remercier pour ces explications très claires.
19. The President:   Thank you very much. I give the floor to Mali.
20. Mali :   Excusez-moi, Madame la Présidente, mais la référence à ces deux projets de résolution m’amène à évoquer  aussi une question qui a été longuement débattue par la Commission, et je voudrais m’assurer que la décision de la  Commission a bien été prise en compte. Je ne connais pas les méandres des techniques de prise de décision mais il est  important que nous nous assurions que la Commission a bien convenu que les transferts de fonds liés aux deux projets  de résolution – en particulier, le DR.44 – ne vont pas avoir de répercussions sur l’Histoire générale de l’Afrique ni sur La  Route de l’esclave. Si cela pouvait être mentionné dans le rapport oral du Président ou dans les documents relatifs aux  décisions de la 36e session de la Conférence générale, nous en serions ravis. Merci beaucoup, Madame la Présidente.
21. The President:    Thank you very much. Mr Chairperson, please.
22. M. Satti (Soudan) (Président de la Commission Culture) :   Oui, j’ai reçu l’assurance du Secrétariat que cela ne se produirait pas : l’Histoire générale de l’Afrique et La route  de l’esclave ne pâtiront nullement de ces transferts. Cela sera dûment mentionné dans les documents concernés. Merci  beaucoup.
23.1 The President:   Thank you very much. I assume that the General Conference now wishes to take note of the report of the  Culture Commission and adopt the draft resolutions contained therein subject to the decisions that the Conference may  take on budgetary issues when adopting the Appropriation Resolution this afternoon. It is so decided.
23.2 Mr Satti, I wish to thank you – you personally and all the members of the Culture Commission – for your  commitment, efficiency and work.
414  Report of the ADM Commission (Finance and Administration) (36 C/69)  Rapport de la Commission ADM (Finances et administration) (36 C/69)   Informe de la Comisión ADM (Cuestiones Financieras y Administrativas) (36 C/69)   Доклад Комиссии ADM (финансовые и административные вопросы) (36 C/69)   )٦٩م/٣٦جتقرير لجنة الشؤون المالية واإلدارية     行政委员会（财务和行政）的报告 (36 C/69)
24. The President:   Your Excellencies, let us now examine the report of the Administrative Commission which is contained in  document 36 C/69. The Chairperson of the Commission, Ms Alissandra Cummins, will present this document.  Ms Cummins, the floor is yours.
25.1 Ms Cummins (Barbados) (Chairperson of the Finance and Administration (ADM) Commission):    Merci, Madame. Madam President of the General Conference, Madam Chair of the Executive Board, Madam  Director-General, Excellencies, ladies and gentlemen, it is with great pleasure that I submit to you the report on the work  of the Administrative Commission of the 36th session of the General Conference included in document 36 C/69. With  your permission, Madam President, I shall now summarize our debates on the items considered.
25.2 The following items were considered without debate: item 10.4, “ Scale of assessments and currency of Member  States’ contributions”, item 10.5, “ Collection of Member States’ contributions”, item 10.6, “ Implications of the application  of International Public Sector Accounting Standards (IPSAS) for the implementation of the incentive scheme for the  prompt payment of contributions”, item 11.4, “Geographical distribution and gender balance of the staff” and item 11.5,  “United Nations Joint Staff Pension Fund”.
25.3 The Administrative Commission examined the proposed draft resolutions on these items and recommended  them for adoption by the plenary as amended.
25.4 The Administrative Commission examined item 1.3, “Report by the Director-General on communications received  from Member States invoking the provisions of Article IV.C, paragraph 8(c), of the Constitution”, at its first meeting and  set up a working group on this item comprising Chad, Chile, the Republic of Korea and Lebanon, with the latter chairing  the group. It finalized the examination of this item at its sixth meeting, on the basis of the report of the working group. The  Commission recommended to the General Conference that it adopt the resolution contained in paragraph 10 of  document 36 C/12, as amended. The amendments provided for the granting of voting rights to Sudan, Kyrgyzstan and  Somalia while denying the Central African Republic the right to vote at the 36th session. This resolution was adopted by  the General Conference at its ninth plenary meeting, on the basis of the Commission’s report.
25.5 With regard to item 4.1, “Methods of preparing the budget, budget estimates for 2012-2013, and budgeting  techniques”, under the zero nominal growth scenario the Organization would have to absorb $32 million of re-costing in  comparison to the zero real growth proposal. This is expected to be achieved firstly by imposing $24.5 million of real cuts  under various appropriation lines, and, secondly, by increasing the lapse factor from 3% to 5%, the lapse factor being the  percentage reduction applied to the staff costs budget due to anticipated turnover of staff and recruitment delays.
25.6 Members of the Commission were assured that the increase of the lapse factor to 5% would achieve a further  reduction of $8.2 million in the staff costs budget, without impacting the staffing structure. Furthermore, it was noted that  the level of the lapse factor was an element of the budgeting techniques which had been approved at each session of the  General Conference.
25.7 Nonetheless, funding for the major programmes, the Africa Department and the Division for Gender Equality  was reinforced and a sum of $9 million had been allocated for Phase 1 of the field network reform. Regarding the  budgeting techniques, a question was raised with respect to the appropriateness of the constant dollar rate of €0.869. In  response, the Commission was reassured that a proposal to align the constant dollar rate to more realistic levels would  be submitted to the Executive Board at its 190th session.
25.8 Furthermore, with regard to Part V on provisions for anticipated cost increases, the Commission stressed that  funds from this reserve should be restructured for staff and activity cost increases which might arise due to inflation,  statutory factors and technical adjustments, and should not be used to finance other items such as capital investments. It  was noted, however, that in exceptional cases derogations were requested from the Executive Board to use anticipated  cost increases for financing other items.
25.9 The Commission welcomed the Executive Board’s recommendation to consider the introduction of results-based  budgeting in document 37 C/5. While at this stage it was too early to determine whether changes in the current budgeting  techniques would be necessary, it was nevertheless noted that other United Nations agencies implementing a results- based budgeting approach had not found it necessary to change their budget techniques. The Commission  recommended that an in-depth assessment of these budgeting techniques be conducted and proposals concerning their  revision and/or modification for the preparation of draft document 37 C/5 be submitted to the Executive Board at its 190th  session.
25.10 After an in-depth debate on this item, the draft resolution was approved as set out in document 36 C/5 Add.2 as  amended.
25.11 Under item 4.2, “Consideration and adoption of the Draft Programme and Budget for 2012-2013”, in the course of  its examination of the proposed draft resolution on Part I of draft document 36 C/5 Addendum related to General Policy
415  and Direction, the Administrative Commission considered DR.1 submitted by Egypt and agreed to amend the part related  to internal oversight, underlining the need to strengthen internal controls and compliance with the Financial Regulations  and Rules.
25.12 The draft resolution contained in paragraph 00100 of draft document 36 C/5 Add. was accordingly  recommended to the General Conference for adoption as amended, while the draft resolutions in paragraphs 11000,
12000 and 13000 of draft document 36 C/5 Add., as well as Parts IV and V of the draft Appropriation Resolution for
2012-2013 and the reserve for reclassifications/merit recognitions, were recommended without amendment to the  attention of the joint meeting of the commissions.
25.13 In considering item 4.4, “Adoption of the provisional budget ceiling”, the members of the Commission arrived at a  consensus on the zero nominal growth scenario budget ceiling of $653 million. A separate report on this item has already  been presented to the plenary at its seventh meeting. During the debate on the budget ceiling, many Member States  expressed concern about the negative impact this budget was having on the funding of the Participation Programme.  There was a strong appeal to the Director-General to endeavour to maintain the resourcing of the Participation  Programme at a level equivalent to that provided for in document 35 C/5.
25.14 Twenty-seven Member States took the floor on item 6.1, “Consideration of the decentralization strategy, including  of the revised basic criteria for the rational implementation of decentralization”. There was general recognition of the  need to strengthen UNESCO’s capacity to deliver at the level of the Member States and to be more closely aligned with  United Nations reform, especially with regard to the policy of Delivering as One. However, some Member States from the  Latin America and the Caribbean Group (GRULAC) raised concerns about whether the infrastructure and reporting lines  of field offices should be applied in the same way throughout the world. This concern gave rise to a debate on the  relevant paragraph 6 of the draft resolution on this item which was amended by the Commission on the basis of
185 EX/Decision 29 of the Executive Board, with a view to achieving consensus on this matter.
25.15 Questions were raised about the cost of the reform, the reporting lines which were regarded as too complex, the  staffing procedures and whether the concrete planning would be based on various Internal Oversight Service (IOS)  evaluations and audits.
25.16 It was underlined that the field reform had not been put in place to save funds but rather to significantly enhance  UNESCO’s delivery capacity in duty stations outside Paris, particularly with regard to quality, efficiency and flexibility.  The representative of the Director-General undertook to further simplify the reporting lines. The staffing plans for the field  reform were fully aligned with the human resources strategy for 2011-2016, encouraging a new culture of mobility.  Special attention is to be paid to the field offices in Africa in order to facilitate the further implementation of the field  reform.
25.17 The draft resolution contained in paragraph 70 of document 36 C/27, as amended, was recommended for  adoption by the plenary.
25.18 In its consideration of item 10.1, “Implementation of the action plan for improved management of extrabudgetary  funds – report by the Executive Board”, the Commission recognized the Complementary Additional Programme (CAP) to  have proven to be a useful tool for extrabudgetary resource mobilization. At the same time, the reinforcement of data  collection, monitoring of extrabudgetary projects and more capacity building for staff were called for in order to  strengthen project delivery and achieve greater transparency in the management of extrabudgetary funds.
25.19 The Director-General was invited to provide a breakdown of extrabudgetary funds by beneficiary country  covering the last two bienniums to the Executive Board during the next biennium. It was confirmed that in future reports  to the governing bodies more attention would be given to the issue of monitoring extrabudgetary projects. The  Commission recommended the continued use of SISTER for that purpose. The importance of mobilizing extrabudgetary  resources was acknowledged, although concern was expressed at the same time that donor-led programmes could  undermine multilateralism.
25.20 With regard to the draft strategy for cooperation with the private sector, the Commission noted that there should  be provision for disengagement as well as engagement in the policy document, in the same way as is provided for in  individual agreements. Concern was expressed about the risks linked to working with the private sector and the Director- General was called on to exercise caution in the selection of partners. A list of all UNESCO’s extrabudgetary partners  was requested. The draft resolution was approved as amended.
25.21 During the debate on item 10.2, “Financial report and audited financial statements relating to the accounts of  UNESCO for the financial period ended 31 December 2009 and report by the External Auditor”, and item 10.3, “Financial  report and audited financial statements relating to the accounts of UNESCO for the year ending 31 December 2010 and  report by the External Auditor”, the External Auditor stated that the 2008-2009 financial statements were issued with an  unqualified audit opinion, although recommendations were made about the necessity to improve the inventory of the  works of art, to strengthen the follow-up of equipment purchased using extrabudgetary funds, as well as the necessity to  reduce costs incurred by the UNESCO Commissary. He also highlighted the low implementation rate of some  extrabudgetary projects.
25.22 With regard to the 2010 financial statements, it was noted that these statements were the first to be prepared  under International Public Accounting Standards (IPSAS). The Organization was one of only nine United Nations  agencies which had been able to implement IPSAS by the agreed date of 1 January 2010. The Director-General was to  be complimented for having successfully achieved a clean audit while implementing IPSAS.
25.23 While the Organization had recorded an operating deficit of $32.1 million for 2010, this was primarily due to  unbudgeted expenses in relation to long-term employee benefits liabilities, exchange losses and accounting timing  differences. For the first time, Property, Plant and Equipment (PP&E) had been included with a net asset value of  $633.3 million, as well as long-term employee benefits liabilities of $784.2 million. Nevertheless, both the representative  of the Director-General and the External Auditor affirmed that the Organization remained solvent since the liability was  not due for payment in the short term; only about $26 million fell due each year.
25.24 The Commission recommended adoption of the draft resolution for item 10.2 as amended, and of the draft  resolution for item 10.3 as recommended by the Executive Board in document 36 C/33 Add.
25.25 In the debate on item 10.7, “Working Capital Fund: level and administration”, Member States wanted to be  reassured that there would be no changes in the assessment of the Working Capital Fund for the next biennium. The  representative of the Director-General replied that the amount of $30 million of the Working Capital Fund would remain  the same but the contribution of the Member States would depend on their respective assessment rate for 2013. Some  Member States might receive a credit while others might be requested to pay more if their assessment rate changed.  The draft resolution was recommended as amended by the Commission.
25.26 With regard to item 11.1, “Staff Regulations and Staff Rules”, members of the Commission expressed their  concern regarding the proposed reduction of the external advertisement period from two months to one month. It was  also recalled that the reduction of the advertisement period from three to two months, in 2003, was already the result of a  compromise adopted by the General Conference.
25.27 They stressed the need rather to encourage the submission of applications particularly from under-represented  and non-represented States. Streamlining of the recruitment process could be achieved through the enhanced human  resources planning provided for in the new human resources strategy.
25.28 Following debate on this issue, the Commission agreed that the minimum time period for advertising posts  should be clearly stated and should be part of the Regulations and not the Rules.
25.29 The Commission also requested placing on record the need for the Secretariat to indicate explicitly in the  documents submitted for consideration whether prior consultation with the staff unions had in fact taken place concerning  staff matters within the Staff Rules and Staff Regulations.
25.30 Accordingly at its last meeting, the Commission returned to the examination of the draft resolution for item 11.1  in respect of a modification to Staff Regulation 4.4. The Commission decided not to retain the proposed modification.  However, it was noted that Member States might wish to continue reflection on the issue of the minimum period for  internal advertisement of posts during the next biennium. It was finally agreed to modify only Staff Regulation 4.3.2 by  adding the word “minimum” to the specified time frame. The draft resolution was recommended as amended by the  Commission.
25.31 The Commission then turned to consideration of item 11.2, “Staff salaries, allowances and benefits”. Regarding  the approved methodologies used to establish salary scales, allowances and benefits for UNESCO staff members, it was  underlined that the measures taken by the Director-General were based on document 35 C/69 authorizing her to apply  decisions of the United Nations General Assembly and of the International Civil Service Commission (lCSC) to  UNESCO’s staff (with respect to salary scales and post adjustment levels).
25.32 The Commission expressed concern about the increases in salaries and allowances of UNESCO staff members,  at a time when many countries were experiencing serious financial difficulties and their national civil services had  introduced pay freezes for their employees.
25.33 Confirmation was provided that ICSC was an independent expert body set up by the United Nations General  Assembly to regulate and coordinate conditions of service for all United Nations system staff. After having received these  clarifications, the Commission recommended the proposed draft resolution for adoption by the General Conference with  two minor amendments. The draft resolution was recommended as amended by the Commission.
25.34 Under item 11.3, “Human resources strategy for 2011-2016”, it was highlighted that the human resources strategy  focused on three agreed objectives, and was the result of a close and successful dialogue between the Secretariat and  the Member States. While the new system would build a culture of trust and accountability, the Director-General was  requested to accelerate the development of policies on financial disclosure and gifts.
25.35 The Commission considered the implementation of the mobility concept to be inadequate and asked the  Director-General to correct the situation, since there was a need to strike a balance between field and Headquarters  staff, to improve geographical distribution, including at the regional level, and to monitor retirement trends.
25.36 The Commission highlighted the importance of an efficient recruitment process and reminded the Director- General of the need to implement the External Auditor’s recommendations on recruitment and cessation of service. The  draft resolution was recommended, as amended, by the Commission.
25.37 In the Commission’s debate on item 11.6, “Report by the Director-General on the state of the Medical Benefits  Fund and appointment of Member States’ representatives to the Board of Management for 2012-2013”, the current  financial situation of the Medical Benefits Fund (MBF), which had displayed an increasing shortfall in income over  expenditure over the past three years, was underlined. The increase in expenditure faced by the MBF was due not only  to a change in demographics but also to high health care inflation.
25.38 It was stressed that the need for corrective measures to ensure the Fund’s sustainability was a matter of  urgency. In order to address this deficit in the short term, contributions need to be tied to the projected cost of the MBF. A  long-term strategy was to be developed to address the financial sustainability of the Fund. Particular attention should be  given to the unfunded after-service health insurance (ASHI) liability.
25.39 It should be recalled that Members of the Executive Board had expressed overall concern with regard to the  issue of governance of the Fund, as well as the need to ensure independence and professionalism in the management of  the Fund. In this connection, a number of members of the ADM Commission expressed their support for hiring the  services of an independent health insurance consulting firm to provide professional and technical expertise, as well as  independence to support the management of the Fund.
25.40 Members of the Commission expressed their appreciation for the implementation of the recommendations  articulated in the External Expert’s report. The proposed change to the cost-sharing model was not supported. The draft  resolution as amended was recommended by the Commission.
25.41 The Commission then examined together items 12.1, “Report by the Director-General, in cooperation with the  Headquarters Committee, on managing the UNESCO complex”, and 12.2, “Capital Master Plan for UNESCO  Headquarters”, and afterwards adopted the draft resolutions separately. The Director-General was obligated to inform  the Commission of the actual environmental, security and health situation at Headquarters and risks facing staff and  delegations. Thus the Capital Master Plan provided a global vision of the condition of the buildings, without questioning  the existing functionality of the Headquarters. The Plan covered the areas not covered under the Belmont renovation  plan.
25.42 The need for further development and prioritization within the Capital Master Plan was reiterated together with  further exploration of alternative sources for the eventual financing of the plan, i.e. public/private partnerships, voluntary  contributions, etc. Some members also requested a review of the future space requirements in view of the human  resources and decentralization strategies currently under discussion. Others raised questions concerning the housing of  outside entities at Headquarters, in particular non-governmental organizations.
25.43 It was agreed that the Headquarters Committee should undertake a review of its working methods which could  improve the transparency of its work and provide better visibility of its functioning. The proposed draft resolutions as  amended by the Commission were recommended for adoption by the General Conference.
25.44 Madam President of the General Conference, Madam Chair of the Executive Board, Madam Director-General,  Excellencies, dear colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, I remain at your disposal to respond to any questions or comments  that you may have. I would like to conclude this presentation by extending my gratitude to all those who contributed to  the success of the Administrative Commission’s debates. More particularly, I wish to thank the Vice-Chairpersons,  namely the distinguished delegates of Azerbaijan, Egypt and the Republic of Korea, and most particularly I would also  like to take this opportunity to express my deep appreciation for the fruitful cooperation we have had with the  distinguished delegate of Canada, Madame Dominique Levasseur, who was kind enough to act as Vice-Chairperson on  several complicated items to allow me some freedom to attend to other duties which required my presence elsewhere. I  would like also to express my gratitude to the Rapporteur, the distinguished delegate of South Africa, Mr Brian Figaji, for  his excellent work, including his presentation during the adoption of the Report of the ADM Commission during its last  meeting on 3 November, and to the Chairperson of the Headquarters Committee, His Excellency Mr Luis Fillipe Carrilho  De Castro Mendes, for the excellence of his work, which ensured that the Committee worked in a spirit of transparency  and consensus.
25.45 For their invaluable assistance, I would also like to warmly thank the Director-General, the Deputy Director- General, Mr Didier Migaud, the External Auditor, and indeed all members of the Director-General’s team who really are  too numerous to mention right now but as well to their colleagues who provided us with the necessary clarification and  support to effectively carry out our work and also deserve our thanks. I am also grateful to the UNESCO Staff Union  (STU) and the International Staff Association of UNESCO (ISAU) staff associations for their highly useful contributions to  our debates and the spirit of cooperation with which they participated in our deliberations.
25.46 Madam President, I would also like to pay tribute to my colleagues, members of the ADM Commission and their  alternates, for their highly useful and comprehensive contributions. They are dedicated professionals who were  determined advocates for their positions while at the same time remaining open to different and varied perspectives. We  held highly spirited sessions of pragmatic dialogue which resulted in draft resolutions supported by all delegations and  enabled our Commission to reach consensus on all the draft resolutions which are now recommended to you in  document 36 C/69.
25.47 I wish to take this opportunity to thank them all for their support and the support they provided me as  Chairperson of the Finance and Administrative (FA) Commission of the Executive Board over the last two years. In  particular, Madam President, I would like to extend my sincerest thanks to you for your support of the work of the ADM  Commission and your wise guidance of the work of the current session of the General Conference. And finally, I would  like especially to thank the secretary of the Administrative Commission, Mr Ingo Schroter and his team, Ms Irina
418  Zoubenko-Laplante, Ms Eunice Ong, Ms Marie-Jeanne Ndiaye and Ms Peggy Julien Chaillier, who showed great  professionalism and at all times spared no effort to assist the Commission.
25.48 And my thanks also go out to our excellent interpreters and translators, the document production unit, the  conference room clerks and all the technicians and the persons in charge of the support services on whom we depended  for the smooth running of our work. I thank you all for your attention. Madam President, thank you.
26. The President:   Thank you very much, Madam. It is always a pleasure to listen to your presentations. Ladies and gentlemen, you  will recall that the Director-General in her intervention in plenary yesterday afternoon called for a separate adoption of  item 10.7 pertaining to the Working Capital Fund. If this proposal were accepted by the General Conference, we would  come to this item after the adoption of the report. So what I am asking now is whether we can adopt this report without  item 10.7 and then come back to item 10.7. Any objections? No objections. It is so decided. I wish really to congratulate  again and thank all members of the Administrative Commission for their efficient work. I also wish to thank you, Ms  Cummins, and those at your side who successfully chaired the Commission. I would like to tell you, dear colleagues,  Your Excellencies, that the Director-General has made some changes to the document and now document 36 C/37  Add.2 has been just printed. In a moment it will be here and circulated so that you can all see it, and we will come back  to this item. Thank you very much.  Report of the joint meeting of commissions (36 C/76)  Rapport de la réunion conjointe des commissions (36 C/76)  Informe de la reunión conjunta de las comisiones (36 C/76)  Доклад совместного заседания комиссий (36 C/76)  )٧٦م/٣٦ج للجان تقرير االجتماع المشترك   各委员会联席会议的报告 (36 C/76)
27. The President:   And now we would like to continue our work with the report of the joint meeting of commissions, which we now  need to examine, though not yet in its final version. The joint meeting was chaired by two Vice-Presidents of the General  Conference, Saint Lucia and Lao People’s Democratic Republic, as well as by the Chairperson of the Administrative  Commission. They will present respective parts of the report contained in document 36 C/76. I would like to give the floor  first to Her Excellency Ms Vera Lacoeilhe of Saint Lucia who will present the first part of the report. Madam, the floor is  yours.
28.1 Mme Lacœilhe (Sainte-Lucie) (Co-Présidente de la Réunion conjointe des commissions) :   Madame la Présidente de la Conférence générale, Madame la Présidente du Conseil exécutif, Madame la  Directrice générale, Honorables délégués, Mesdames et Messieurs, la Réunion conjointe des commissions, qui s’est  tenue du 8 au 10 novembre, a examiné six points au cours de quatre séances. Le résultat des délibérations de la  Réunion conjointe est contenu dans le document 36 C/Réunion conjointe/2. Lors de cette réunion, j’ai eu l’honneur de  présider l’examen du point 6.2 sur l’Évaluation externe indépendante, tandis que M. Khamliène Nhouyvanisvong, de la  République démocratique populaire lao, Vice-Président de la Conférence générale, a présidé la réunion pour les  points 4.2, 5.18, 3.1 et 3.3, et Mme Alissandra Cummins, de la Barbade, Présidente de la Commission ADM, l’a présidée  pour l’examen des points 4.2 et 4.3. Avec votre permission, mon rapport oral portera donc uniquement sur les  délibérations de la Réunion conjointe au sujet du point 6.2. Puisque la Commission PRX avait déjà examiné les  recommandations relatives aux méthodes de travail de l’Organisation (à savoir l’orientation stratégique 4 « Renforcer la  gouvernance » et l’orientation stratégique 5 « Élaborer une stratégie de partenariat »), la Réunion conjointe s’est plus  spécifiquement concentrée sur les recommandations liées aux aspects programmatiques contenus notamment dans  l’orientation stratégique 1 « Recentrer l’action de l’UNESCO », l’orientation stratégique 2 « Rapprocher l’UNESCO des  réalités du terrain » et l’orientation stratégique 3 « Renforcer la participation au système des Nations Unies ».   (L’oratrice poursuit en anglais)
28.2 Madam President, a total of 15 Member States took the floor on this item. Member States expressed  appreciation for the strong collaboration between the Secretariat and the governing bodies in the follow-up to the  Independent External Evaluation (IEE) report. It was acknowledged that the IEE has been instrumental in reinforcing the  momentum for reform and that concrete action should be undertaken for its follow-up. There was support for the  recommendations of the ad hoc working group as well as the steps already taken by the Director-General to follow up on  the recommendations.
28.3  Several Member States commented on the significance of strategic direction 1, and on increasing UNESCO’s  focus, and underlined the need to streamline the Organization’s programmes. A number of speakers also voiced support  for the steps being taken to strengthen UNESCO’s presence in the field under strategic direction 2, noting the need to  continue to work closely with National Commissions and to enhance their capacities.
28.4  The result of our deliberations on item 6.2 is reflected in the written report in the form of two draft resolutions.  The first concerns the follow-up to the IEE; the joint meeting adopted the draft resolution already approved by the PRX  Commission with an amendment to invite the Executive Board to monitor the follow-up to the IEE in consultation with the  President of the General Conference.
28.5  In the second draft resolution, the joint meeting recommends that the General Conference adopt the decision  concerning the consultation process recommended by the Executive Board for the C/4 and C/5 documents under the  new quadrennial planning cycle.
28.6 Madam President, before concluding my brief presentation, I would like to recall a reservation expressed by  Egypt on the lack of clarity concerning the mandate, membership, financial implications and working modalities of the ad  hoc group that was established by the Executive Board at its 188th session. The Legal Adviser provided the clarification,  however, that since the ad hoc group was established by the Executive Board, it is the prerogative of the Board to define  its parameters and this question does not fall under the purview of the General Conference.
28.7  This, Madam President, concludes my oral report for item 6.2 as examined and adopted by the joint meeting of  the commissions. Thank you.
29. The President:   Thank you very much. Now I would like to give the floor to His Excellency Ambassador Nhouyvanisvong.  Ambassador, Your Excellency, I would like to ask you to present your report. Thank you.
30.1 M. Nhouyvanisvong (République démocratique populaire lao) (Co-Président de la Réunion conjointe des  commissions) :   Madame la Présidente, Madame la Directrice générale, Excellences, Mesdames et Messieurs, je voudrais tout  d’abord remercier mes deux co-Présidentes, Mme Lacœilhe et Mme Cummins, qui ont subi une torture devant les  membres de notre Réunion conjointe. Mais avant de vous présenter mon rapport oral, qui présente un caractère  administratif et peut-être trop technocratique, je voudrais soumettre à notre réflexion une citation de Socrate : « Je crois  qu’on ne peut mieux vivre qu’en cherchant à devenir meilleur, ni plus agréablement qu’en ayant la pleine conscience de  son amélioration ». Cela pour nous permettre de réfléchir à ce que nous allons faire dans le cadre de l’UNESCO.  Madame la Présidente, vous me permettrez de vous remercier de m’avoir désigné pour présider les débats de la  Réunion conjointe. Je tiens également à remercier les Présidents des sept commissions qui ont été à mes côtés lors des  délibérations et discussions consacrées aux différents points qui figurent à l’ordre du jour de notre Réunion.
30.2 Madame la Présidente, sous ma présidence, la Réunion conjointe avait à son ordre du jour quatre points –  Mme Lacœilhe vous en a donné lecture mais je me permets de le rappeler à la plénière. Il s’agissait du point 4.2,  « Examen et adoption du Projet de programme et de budget pour 2012-2013 – Titre II.A : Plates-formes  intersectorielles », du point 5.18, « Changement climatique : élaboration et mise en œuvre de politiques d’atténuation et  d’adaptation dans la région des Caraïbes », du point 3.2, « Préparation du Projet de stratégie à moyen terme (37 C/4) »  et du point 3.3, « Préparation du Projet de programme et de budget pour le prochain biennium (37 C/5) ».
30.3 Mesdames et Messieurs, les points 4.2 et 5.18 ont été examinés au cours d’un même débat et présentés par le  représentant de la Directrice générale, le Sous-Directeur général pour la planification stratégique (ADG/BSP). Celui-ci a  mis l’accent sur la réduction du nombre de plates-formes intersectorielles par rapport aux exercices biennaux précédents,  passant de 12 à 6 dans le Projet de programme et de budget. Il a aussi souligné que 8 % du budget d’activité alloué aux  cinq secteurs de programme dans le 36 C/5 Add. seraient affectés aux plates-formes. L’ADG/BSP a également précisé  qu’un chapitre du volume 2 du projet de 36 C/5 fournissait des informations sur les stratégies détaillées, les résultats  escomptés et les indicateurs de performance et de référence, comme l’avait demandé le Conseil exécutif. Il a  particulièrement attiré l’attention sur le programme intersectoriel et pluridisciplinaire pour une culture de la paix et de la  non-violence qui guidera les activités de la plate-forme intersectorielle, comme l’avait demandé la Conférence générale à  sa 35e session.
30.4 Au cours du débat qui a suivi, 10 délégués ont pris la parole. Ils ont unanimement souligné l’importance de  l’intersectorialité pour l’UNESCO et noté que les plates-formes intersectorielles étaient des outils décisifs qui  permettaient à l’Organisation d’accroître les synergies entre secteurs de programme, de réduire les redondances et de  renforcer l’impact de son action. Les intervenants ont également félicité la Directrice générale pour ses efforts visant à  réduire le nombre de plates-formes intersectorielles et accueilli favorablement l’allocation d’un budget spécifique à ces  plates-formes, ce qui leur conférerait une plus grande autonomie et serait la garantie d’une transparence accrue. Un  délégué a souligné que les priorités globales de l’UNESCO – Afrique et Égalité des genres – devraient être reflétées  dans toutes les plates-formes intersectorielles. Quant à la plate-forme intersectorielle sur une culture de la paix et de la  non-violence, elle a été accueillie favorablement par les délégués, qui ont fait valoir qu’il était important de forger des  partenariats stratégiques, de s’assurer de l’impact des activités envisagées avant leur mise en œuvre et d’améliorer les  résultats escomptés. Un délégué a insisté sur l’importance de la plate-forme intersectorielle pour le soutien aux pays en  situation de post-conflit ou de post-catastrophe, en particulier en ce qui concerne l’assistance fournie et la contribution  inestimable de l’Organisation dans les domaines de l’éducation, de la culture et des médias dans les pays souffrant de  conflits ou de catastrophes naturelles.
30.5 Plusieurs délégués ont fait savoir qu’ils appuyaient le projet de résolution présenté par Saint-Kitts-et-Nevis au  titre du point 4.2, soutenu par nombre de pays de la région des Caraïbes, concernant le changement climatique et visant  à l’élaboration et à la mise en œuvre de politiques d’atténuation et d’adaptation dans la région des Caraïbes
(36 C/Réunion conjointe/DR.1 Rev.). Ils ont souligné combien il était important de lancer de tels travaux, qui pourraient  être menés également dans d’autres régions, en particulier le Pacifique. Un délégué a cependant exprimé son  inquiétude quant aux possibles incidences financières de certaines parties de la résolution. Dans sa réponse, le  représentant de la Directrice générale a remercié les intervenants du large soutien des États membres aux plates-formes  intersectorielles et assuré les délégués que leurs commentaires seraient pris en compte dans l’élaboration des activités  prévues au titre des différentes plates-formes intersectorielles et dont les modalités de financement seraient fixées par
420  les comités de direction. Il a aussi mentionné les efforts constants de l’UNESCO pour perfectionner la gestion axée sur  les résultats dans le cadre de sa programmation.
30.6 En outre, l’ADG/BSP a précisé que les activités proposées dans le projet de résolution sur le changement  climatique pourraient être entreprises sur la base du projet de budget de la plate-forme intersectorielle sur le  changement climatique pour le prochain exercice biennal. Enfin, il a indiqué qu’aucun effort ne serait ménagé pour  délimiter clairement les activités qui seraient menées au titre des plates-formes intersectorielles sur les petits États  insulaires en développement et sur le changement climatique, afin d’éviter tout chevauchement.
30.7 S’agissant du projet de programme et de budget pour les plates-formes intersectorielles au titre de 2012-2013,  la Commission a recommandé à la Conférence générale d’approuver le projet de résolution – qui figure au  paragraphe 07000 du document 36 C/5 Addendum, volume 1 –, qui prévoit un budget total de 7 123 700 dollars pour les  coûts d’activité. En outre, la Commission a pris note du paragraphe 53 du document 36 C/6 sur les plates-formes  intersectorielles. Enfin, le projet de résolution 36 C/Réunion conjointe/DR.1 Rev. a été approuvé tel qu’amendé.
30.8 J’en viens maintenant au point 3.2. Le Sous-Directeur général pour la planification stratégique a présenté le  document 36 C/11 sur la préparation du Projet de stratégie à moyen terme (37 C/4). Il a rappelé que la Commission PRX  avait déjà adopté les recommandations formulées par le Conseil exécutif à la suite de l’Évaluation externe indépendante  en ce qui concerne les ajustements proposés pour la préparation des principaux programmes et budgets de l’UNESCO,  en particulier les propositions tendant à faire passer la durée du cycle du C/4 de six à huit ans à compter du document
37 C/4 et à maintenir caractère ajustable de la Stratégie à moyen terme de l’UNESCO. Il a rappelé que, dans son  rapport sur les aspects opérationnels du suivi de l’Évaluation externe indépendante, la Directrice générale avait souligné  qu’il était important de centrer la stratégie sur un nombre limité d’objectifs stratégiques. Enfin, il a souligné que les  documents 36 C/INF.19 et 36 C/INF.20, contenant respectivement le résumé des délibérations du Forum des dirigeants  et du Forum des jeunes, qui se sont tenus pendant la présente session de la Conférence générale, présentaient  également un intérêt direct pour la préparation du prochain document C/4.
30.9 En outre, le Président de la Commission ED a présenté les conclusions du débat organisé dans le cadre de la  Commission concernant les objectifs de l’Éducation pour tous après 2015. Il a souligné que de nombreux pays  n’atteindraient pas les objectifs de l’EPT en 2015. La Commission a recommandé que, dans le cadre de l’Éducation pour  tous, on mette davantage l’accent sur la qualité, ajoutant que l’éducation devait continuer à faire partie des objectifs de  développement après 2015.
30.10 Mesdames et Messieurs, en guise d’introduction à la partie relative au C/4 et au C/5, je voudrais citer Tagore.  Voici ce qu’il a dit : « Ce n’est pas dans le firmament étoilé, ni dans la splendeur des corolles que se voit dans toute sa  perfection la révélation de l’infini dans le fini, qui est le motif de toute création – c’est dans l’âme de l’homme ». En effet,  la Réunion conjointe des commissions avait également inscrit à son ordre du jour trois projets de résolution concernant  la préparation du projet de Stratégie à moyen terme (37 C/4) : le 36 C/Réunion conjointe/DR.2 ; le 36 C/Réunion  conjointe/DR.4 ; le 36 C/Réunion conjointe/DR.6. La Commission a cependant été informée par ses auteurs du retrait du  projet de résolution DR.2, qui n’a donc pas fait l’objet d’une discussion. La Réunion conjointe a procédé à l’examen  successif des deux projets de résolution restants. Au cours d’un débat fructueux, les délégués ont accueilli avec  satisfaction le document 36 C/11, qui met l’accent sur les principaux aspects à considérer par la Conférence générale,  en particulier en ce qui concerne le suivi de l’Évaluation externe indépendante de l’UNESCO, qui a recommandé la  définition d’un nombre limité d’objectifs stratégiques, ce qui permettrait de renforcer durablement la concentration, la  pertinence, l’impact, l’intersectorialité et la visibilité de chaque programme. Plusieurs délégués ont souligné qu’il était  encore trop tôt pour déterminer le nombre exact de ces objectifs, mais ont reconnu qu’il était pertinent d’y réfléchir.
30.11 S’agissant du mandat de l’UNESCO, les délégués ont réaffirmé sa pertinence dans le contexte actuel, mais  souligné qu’il importait d’en définir plus précisément la portée afin de mieux le traduire dans les faits et d’assurer une  totale synergie avec l’ensemble de nos partenaires, en particulier les autres organisations du système des Nations Unies.  Nombre de délégués se sont dit favorables à la proposition tendant à placer les droits de l’homme au cœur de la  nouvelle déclaration de mission de l’UNESCO. Tout en considérant la prise en compte des droits de l’homme comme  essentielle pour l’exécution du mandat de l’UNESCO, certains délégués ont cependant observé que la formulation  proposée semblait restreindre de façon excessive la portée de ce mandat et les champs d’action de l’Organisation, dont  fait également partie la promotion de la paix et du développement durable. De nombreux délégués ont aussi reconnu la  pertinence des cinq fonctions de l’UNESCO, tout en reconnaissant le besoin de les repenser à la lumière de la pratique,  peut-être de façon différenciée en fonction des régions et selon les modalités et les niveaux d’intervention de  l’Organisation, dans le but de rendre ses programmes mieux ciblés.
30.12 Les délégués se sont accordés à reconnaître le rôle central des jeunes en tant qu’agents de changement et  d’innovation. De ce fait, plusieurs délégués ont proposé que la jeunesse soit désignée comme l’une des priorités  globales de l’UNESCO dans la prochaine Stratégie à moyen terme, aux côtés de l’Afrique et de l’Égalité des genres.  Néanmoins, d’autres ont pensé qu’un examen plus approfondi de la question était nécessaire. Il a donc été décidé de  demander à la Directrice générale de considérer la nécessité et d’examiner la faisabilité et les implications de la  désignation de la jeunesse en tant que nouvelle priorité globale et de déterminer pour ce faire des modalités idoines  dans le prochain C/4.
30.13 En ce qui concerne le point 3.3, relatif au prochain Programme et budget 2014-2017 (document 37 C/5), le  Sous-Directeur général pour la planification stratégique a présenté le document 36 C/7 en faisant ressortir les aspects  principaux de la préparation de ce document. Il a rappelé qu’en application de la décision prise récemment par la  Commission PRX, le prochain C/5 couvrirait un cycle de programmation de quatre ans et un cycle budgétaire de deux  ans.
30.14 Il a ensuite été procédé à l’examen des deux projets de résolutions relatifs à ce point (36 C/Réunion  conjointe/DR.3 et 36 C/Réunion conjointe/DR.5). Les délégués ont fait valoir qu’il importait de délibérer davantage pour  trouver un équilibre satisfaisant entre les activités normatives et opérationnelles de l’UNESCO et ses activités globales,  régionales et nationales. Beaucoup ont insisté sur le fait qu’il serait nécessaire, lors de la préparation du prochain  document C/5, de prendre en considération l’impact de la crise économique et financière globale et la situation financière  difficile de l’UNESCO. Certains délégués ont déclaré à cette occasion que la situation de l’UNESCO avait été encore  aggravée par les décisions unilatérales prises par certains États membres. L’alignement des ressources  extrabudgétaires sur le programme ordinaire a été perçu comme un outil important à la disposition de l’Organisation pour  accroître l’impact et la portée de son action, en particulier au niveau des pays. Les deux projets de résolution ont été  adopté tels qu’amendés.
30.15 Madame la Présidente, Excellences, Mesdames et Messieurs, j’aimerais, en conclusion, remercier les  distingués délégués qui ont participé aux travaux de cette Réunion conjointe des commissions et enrichi le débat de  leurs idées, de leurs propositions, de leur opposition même, mais surtout de leur collégialité. Je crois que nous avons  accompli là un grand pas qui sera suivi, certainement, de beaucoup d’autres. Comme l’écrivait le grand poète allemand  Goethe – je le cite : « Ce n’est pas assez de faire des pas qui doivent un jour conduire au but, chaque pas doit être lui- même un but en même temps qu’il nous porte en avant ». Madame la Présidente, Excellences, Mesdames et Messieurs,  Madame la Directrice générale, je souhaite également remercier le représentant de la Directrice générale ainsi que le  Secrétariat pour leur assistance efficace et leurs conseils, qui ont été décisifs pour le succès des travaux de cette  Réunion conjointe des commissions. Je vous remercie de votre attention.
31.1 The President:   Thank you very much, Your Excellency. Now, ladies and gentlemen, there are some documents which have  been just printed. This is the case of Part III of this report and also of the Director-General’s document. So what I am  proposing now is that you adopt the first two parts, Part I and Part II, which have just been presented by Saint Lucia and  Lao People’s Democratic Republic. And then I will give you a little time and we will meet again at 5.30 p.m. I would like  you to also have time to read the Director-General’s new proposal. So by the time we get back by 5.30 p.m., if you agree,  you will have all the documents in hand. I do not want to engage in any discussion until you have read them. I am now  proposing to adopt Part I and Part II just presented by Saint Lucia and Lao People’s Democratic Republic. Are there any  comments? I see none. So, ladies and gentlemen, Parts I and II are adopted.
31.2 We will, then, meet again at 5.30 p.m., by which time I hope that all the documents will have been printed and  circulated and that you will also have had time to discuss the new version of the Director-General’s document. Thank you  very much.  (The meeting is suspended at 5.05 p.m. and resumes at 5.50 p.m.)
32. The President:    Your Excellencies, ladies and gentlemen, thank you very much for your patience. I really thought it was  important for everybody to have written versions of the document we are talking about. Now we have the third part of the  report of the joint meeting of commissions, and we are going to continue our work with the discussion of this third part. I  would like now to give the floor to Ambassador Cummins. The floor is yours. Thank you.
33.1  Ms Cummins (Barbados) (Co-Chairperson of the joint meeting of commissions):    Merci, Madame. Thank you. Madam President of the General Conference, Madam Director-General,  Excellencies, ladies and gentlemen, it is with great pleasure that I shall now present to you the summary of the debates  of the joint meeting of all seven commissions on the following draft resolutions submitted by Member States on item 4.2:  draft resolution related to the recommendations of the Executive Board on the preparation of the Draft Programme and  Budget for 2012-2013 (36 C/5), contained in document 36 C/6 Addendum, including the recommendations of the PRX  Commission on the Participation Programme); 36 C/DR.46 with budgetary implications, involving two or more  commissions; 36 C/DR.8, DR.9 and DR.10 transmitted to the joint meeting from the SHS, CLT and CI Commissions.
33.2 With regard to the draft resolution in document 36 C/6 Addendum, the debate focused on the recommendation  by which the Executive Board invited the Director-General to maintain the resources of the Participation Programme at a  budgetary level equivalent to that provided for in document 35 C/5. The joint meeting took note of the support of the ADM  and PRX Commissions for this Executive Board recommendation requesting the Director-General to use the funds  remaining after the closure of the accounts for the 2010-2011 biennium - the “carry over” - for the implementation of the  Participation Programme.
33.3 Eight delegates took the floor on this issue. Many of them, who were in support of the recommendation made by  the PRX Commission, declared that in the light of the current difficult financial situation of UNESCO and the explanations  presented by the Director-General yesterday in the plenary on the shortfall in the Organization’s cash flow, they were  ready to withdraw their amendments. Other delegations stated, however, that any “carry over” budget remaining at the  end of the current biennium should be allocated to the Participation Programme. One Member State emphasised that  developed and emerging countries should refrain from submitting Participation Programme requests in favour of least  developed and developing countries.
33.4 In conclusion, the joint meeting recommended the draft resolution contained in document 36 C/6 Addendum as  amended. Thus, sub-paragraphs 1 (b) and 1 (c) of paragraph 10100 of the draft 36 C/5 Addendum Volume 1 are  recommended for adoption without any change.
33.5 The joint meeting continued with the examination of 36 C/DR.46. Five delegates took the floor and expressed  unanimous support of the proposal contained in the draft resolution to reinforce the financing of the programme of the
422  Education Sector by transferring resources from Parts I and III of the Draft Programme and Budget. With regard to the  concrete amount of transfers, the joint meeting supported the amendments proposed by the Director-General as  contained in document 36 C/8.
33.6 The joint meeting also considered draft resolutions 8, 9 and 10 submitted by Egypt. Following a brief debate,  these draft resolutions were not retained.
33.7 This finalizes the summary of the debates of the joint meeting on the draft resolutions which are recommended  for adoption by the plenary in document 36 C/76.
33.8 The joint meeting then proceeded with the examination of item 4.3 entitled “Adoption of the Appropriation  Resolution for 2012-2013”. The recommendation of the joint meeting on this item is contained in document 36 C/46 and  will be presented in my oral comments on the debates of the joint meeting in plenary during the examination of this item.
33.9 Ladies and gentlemen, I wish to express my deep gratitude to all the distinguished delegates who participated in  the debates of the joint meeting of commissions for their excellent contributions and for the spirit of consensus which  prevailed throughout our discussions. I thank most particularly my colleagues the Chairpersons of all the Commissions  who attended our meetings. Finally, let me also express my thanks to the representative of the Director-General, as well  as to the Secretariat of the joint meeting, for their unwavering support in the course of our work. Thank you for your  attention.
34. The President:    Thank you very much. Now I would like to propose the adoption of the third part of this document, which is the  report of the joint commissions. As you remember, we have adopted Part I and Part II. Thank you very much, Ms  Cummins. Is there anyone who wishes to speak? There being no comments, I take it that it is so decided and that Part  III is adopted. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen.
35. The President:    Now I would like to go back to item 10.7, recalling that the Director-General requested yesterday that that item  be discussed. So now I would like to give the floor to the Director-General before we discuss the new text in detail. Thank  you very much for your patience.  Item 10.7: Working Capital Fund: level and administration (continued) (36 C/37 and Add., Add.2 and Add.2 Rev.2)  Point 10.7 : Fonds de roulement : niveau et administration (suite) (36 C/37 et Add., Add.2 et Add.2 Rev.2)  Punto 10.7: Fondo de Operaciones: cuantía y administración del Fondo (continuación) (36 C/37 y Add., Add.2 y  Add.2 Rev.2)  Пункт 10.7: Фонд оборотных средств: уровень и управление (продолжение) (36 C/37 и Add., Add.2 и Add.2  Rev.2)
36.1 La Directrice générale :   Merci beaucoup, Madame la Présidente. Mesdames et Messieurs, Excellences, comme je l’ai dit hier,  l’UNESCO fait face à une situation difficile. Je dirais que nous sommes à un tournant de notre histoire. Depuis une  semaine, hier et encore ce matin, j’ai mené des consultations avec l’ensemble des groupes pour vous alerter sur nos  problèmes et y répondre de façon collective. Je vais aller plus loin : je dirais que c’est un test pour notre Organisation.  Un test de courage, un test de volonté politique, un test pour la réforme et même un test de sang-froid. L’adoption du  budget tel que proposé est une première décision positive, et courageuse. Il est le résultat d’un équilibre fragile, d’un  long processus de consultation. Nous avons maintenant un document de référence qui va être notre boussole pour les  deux prochaines années. Nous savons que ce sera difficile mais la situation peut évoluer au cours de l’exercice biennal.  Et nous allons tout mettre en œuvre pour relever ce défi.
36.2 Et je passe maintenant à notre problème le plus immédiat. Avant la fin du mois de décembre, nous devons faire  face à un déficit de trésorerie de 65 millions de dollars. Ce déficit correspond à la somme restant à verser par les États- Unis au titre de l’année 2011. Nous savons que les États-Unis ont l’habitude de payer leur contribution à la fin de l’année,  pour des raisons liées à leur calendrier budgétaire. Et cette somme, comme je l’ai dit hier, nous ne la percevrons pas.  C’est donc un problème que nous devons régler tout de suite. Nous avons six semaines devant nous, c’est très court.  Cela signifie que nous devons prendre des mesures radicales, et que nous devons les prendre rapidement. J’ai  parfaitement conscience qu’il est difficile de traiter cette question à si brève échéance. Je mesure également les  obligations administratives, financières, juridiques à respecter avant tout versement. Elles sont légitimes, toutes ces  considérations, elles sont normales. Je ne demande aucune mesure d’exception mais je vous demande de prendre la  mesure de la situation et de contribuer comme vous le pouvez.
36.3 Depuis une semaine, l’équipe de direction passe déjà en revue toutes nos activités prévues pour novembre et  décembre afin de dégager des économies et de combler le déficit prévu. J’ai interrompu temporairement certaines  activités pour en revoir le coût. L’UNESCO tourne maintenant au ralenti. Notre urgence est d’examiner l’ensemble des  programmes dans tous les secteurs, y compris les engagements contractuels, les voyages du personnel, les publications,  les coûts de communications, les réunions et le reste – pour couper, reporter, suspendre, interrompre. Avec toutes ces  mesures, Mesdames et Messieurs, nous estimons pouvoir dégager une économie de 35 millions de dollars. J’aurai des  chiffres plus précis, avec une ventilation détaillée dès la semaine prochaine. Nous regardons également du côté de notre  Fonds de roulement (the Working Capital Fund) qui s’élève actuellement à 30 millions de dollars. Il représente 4,5 % de
423  notre budget total, il nous laisse de trois à quatre semaines d’autonomie. C’est un niveau très bas comparé à d’autres  organisations du système qui se situent plutôt autour de 10 à 12 %. L’intégralité de cette somme, 30 millions de dollars,  sera également injectée pour combler le déficit. Avec les 35 millions d’économies que nous réaliserons, je l’espère, d’ici  à la fin de cette année et les 30 millions du Fonds de roulement, nous espérons pouvoir combler notre déficit le plus  immédiat de 65 millions de dollars en 2011. Mais cela signifie que nous finirons l’année sans aucune, aucune réserve,  dans une situation dangereuse.
36.4 Cette situation est d’autant plus périlleuse que nous allons devoir faire face, à partir du 1er janvier, à un autre  problème. Au 1er janvier 2012, nous ferons face à un déficit de 143 millions de dollars qui correspond à une perte de  contribution de 22 % du budget que nous venons d’adopter. Et à ce moment-là, nous n’aurons plus aucun fonds de  roulement. I’m speaking about the Working Capital Fund. Il sera à zéro. Nous allons devoir prendre des mesures  radicales. Ces mesures, nous allons devoir y réfléchir soigneusement. On ne peut pas couper 22 % de façon  transversale dans l’ensemble des activités. Il va falloir faire des choix, et parfois des choix difficiles. Et chacun devra  prendre ses responsabilités. J’affirme solennellement que je prendrai les miennes, au nom de l’intérêt supérieur de  l’UNESCO. Je voudrais remercier tous les États membres qui souhaitent me donner des marges de manœuvre  supplémentaires dans les mouvements de fonds entre les secteurs et à l’intérieur des secteurs – et qui avaient lancé hier  un appel pour éviter à l’Organisation de tomber dans la microgestion. J’aurai besoin de cette souplesse mais je sais très  bien que cette situation est aussi l’occasion d’accélérer la réforme. Je suis totalement prête à réviser l’ensemble de notre  action, nos modalités de fonctionnement, nos structures au sein du Secrétariat. Je sais très bien que nous pouvons  encore réduire encore nos frais administratifs, établir des priorités parmi nos activités, et mieux répondre aux attentes  des États membres. Nous pouvons et nous allons, je l’espère, le faire ensemble. Dans ce moment difficile, j’en appelle  au consensus, car nous avons plus que jamais besoin d’unité pour faire face à la situation. Nous venons par exemple  d’adopter un plan d’action complet, avec 87 mesures précises, à partir des conclusions du groupe de travail du Conseil  exécutif, elles-mêmes inspirées des recommandations issues de l’Évaluation externe indépendante. Mais nous allons  faire beaucoup plus. Dans l’immédiat, nous avons besoin d’un signal fort, de la part de tous les États membres pour  régler notre problème de déficit.   (La Directrice générale poursuit en anglais)
36.5 Ladies and gentlemen, as we have been discussing yesterday and today, I seek your support for proposals that  will help UNESCO move through this time of serious difficulty. Reflecting these discussions, I have circulated a new  amendment to the document we discussed yesterday. Please allow me to take this opportunity to be very clear about  each of these proposals that I dealt with briefly yesterday.
36.6  The first proposal is to defer the payment of the current incentive scheme to Member States for consideration at  the 37th session of the General Conference.
36.7  For information, to be very clear about what we are talking about, in concrete terms, this is currently forecast at  between $1 and $3 million, depending on currency fluctuations.
36.8  I would strongly appeal to all Member States to support this, I would say, modest decision that we can take now  and I appeal for a consensus on this decision that will send a very strong political signal about unity and about  engagement of Member States to support the Organization in these difficult times.
36.9  The proposal I am making to you does not require any additional contribution by Member States at this particular  moment. My modest proposal to you is to discuss this issue, not to take action on it during 2012 but to discuss it at the  next session of our General Conference in 2013. I believe that this simple and modest decision, which I would ask you to  support by consensus, will be a very strong political signal about the unity of Member States in their wish to support the  Organization in these difficult times.
36.10  The second and most important measure would be, as an immediate urgent solution, to secure a temporary  increase of our Working Capital Fund for the year 2012-2013.
36.11  As I mentioned previously in the French part of my intervention, our Working Capital Fund is at the level of 4.5%  of our budgetary contributions. It is much lower than that of practically all, if not all the other organizations in the system.  The usual recommendation is that we have it at the level of 12%. Others have it at the level of 10%, between 10% and
12%. I know that it is a complicated issue that you might have to deal with through your parliaments, going through the  complex parliamentary and administrative procedure.
36.12  Still, I do believe that this Working Capital Fund should be increased to 10% of the global budget ceiling. As I  said, I understood and I listened, I heard your message, which you expressed yesterday and today during the numerous  consultations that I have had with very many Member States. The discussion was for me quite, I would say, revealing  and quite instructive. I am keenly aware of the difficulties that many governments face today against the backdrop of the  economic and financial crisis.
36.13  In the circumstances, I appeal to Member States to make voluntary advances, to those Member States which  can afford to, to make voluntary advances to complement the Working Capital Fund for a period of two years that could  be renewed at the next General Conference according to the financial situation of the Organization at that time.
36.14  Let me, ladies and gentlemen, be perfectly clear – Member States are invited to make an entirely voluntary  contribution to the Working Capital Fund to the extent they consider it possible. Since the Working Capital Fund is yours,  we are not talking about the usual contributions to the budget of this Organization. These advances will be refunded to  the Member States concerned by deduction from their assessed contributions at the time of repayment.
36.15  Given the short notice, I believe it necessary to request the General Conference to delegate authority to the  Executive Board to examine, and if appropriate decide upon this question, at its 189th session, determining a new level  of the Working Capital Fund to be supplemented entirely by voluntary contributions. And let me mention something which  emerged during our consultations in the different regional groups and also in the other discussions that we held today.  The Working Capital Fund, as I mentioned, is made up of contributions, assessed contributions by Member States, to  cushion certain risks in our Organization. This is your money, the $30 million of the Working Capital Fund that we will use  by the end of this year to fill the hole that we hope in the future will be replenished once the regular funds to this  Organization start flowing back. When we speak about using this Working Capital Fund this year, and using the savings  by the end of this year, it means that by doing so we will fill the cash-flow hole that we now have in the budget. The new  voluntary contributions that may accrue to the Working Capital Fund will be kind of a loan that your governments will give  to the Organization in order to make up a shortfall at this time of risk. But this will be given back to you whatever the  future General Conference decides about the Fund’s level one way or the other. I think that this is extremely important for  you to understand: that when I ask you to make voluntary contributions to the Working Capital Fund, this is neither an  extrabudgetary trust fund, nor some kind of other contribution to the regular budget. This is a voluntary contribution to the  Working Capital Fund that stays here at the Organization and it stays with you. In the future the General Conference may  decide on what the ceiling of this Working Capital Fund may be for the future spending of the Organization.
36.16  But since we have to deal with an imminent problem now, I strongly appeal to those Member States who  consider they are in a position to contribute to the Working Capital Fund to do so because it will be of enormous help to  the Organization.
36.17  And once again, as I said yesterday, I know this is not a long-term solution. Nor is it a substitute for the loss of
22% of its budget. However, it would provide the Organization with some breathing space to plan rationally under the  new circumstances and new conditions that we have to deal with today. And let me also say that time and space are vital  today – they will be absolutely essential on 1 January 2012 when we will have to deal with zero working capital at this  Organization and will have spent all our savings and other resources. I believe also that the idea that emerged during the  consultations yesterday and today with many Member States that a working group be established with Member States  which will be open to everybody under the presidency of the General Conference and of course with my personal  contribution is an extremely valuable one. Because I do believe that the financial stability of the Organization is a  problem not only for me as the Director-General. It is a problem that all of us in this Organization, and especially the  Member States, have to deal with.
36.18  So ladies and gentlemen, I will appeal also for a strong consensus, a strong decision, a strong consensus  decision on this important point when we come to the text.
36.19  Third, I wish to make an appeal to all governments to provide their assessed contributions as early as possible  in 2012. Some governments, and I very much appreciate their statements, have already expressed their readiness to do  so. And I will of course seek the support of all Member States in this respect.
36.20  Lastly, as I mentioned yesterday, I would like once again to reiterate that I have decided to launch an emergency  multi-donor fund for core priority programmes and the reform initiative. This emergency fund will be open to all donors –  from Member States to public institutions, foundations and individuals.
36.21  I am pleased to inform you that, since 2 November, there has been an unprecedented outpouring of support for  UNESCO, coming from individuals, associations and private corporations from all corners of the globe. I see these  expressions of support as clear recognition of the good that UNESCO does in the world. These are very concrete  indicators of success.
36.22  I am pleased to announce that we are launching today a new online donation tool that will make it easier for  people to contribute. And I guess what we have now on the screen is the webpage, also with an indication of the  launching of this special fund.
36.23  Again, ladies and gentlemen, let me be clear. This is not simply another extrabudgetary fund – it will be directed  to supporting our core activities so that our core activities are not affected by the difficult financial situation. So before  moving to the actual document and text, is there anything that needs explaining on this webpage? I think it is fine. Before  moving to the actual document, allow me to say a few more words. All these decisions are not decisions of choice. They  are decisions of urgency. Unfortunately, I do not believe that we have time to wait or that these are decisions we can  postpone. If we take these measures now, this will give us time to consider the necessary long-term policies we must  adopt in a process of open and inclusive consultation.
36.24  As I said yesterday, there is no single solution to resolve all of our current and predicted difficulties. We need to  build a package of measures -- some of which are already under way, others which must be taken very soon. This  package must reconcile immediate imperatives with the programmatic implementation of our mandate. It must balance  urgency with foresight.
36.25  This is a time for unity, a time for all of us to pull together. Together, I am convinced we can overcome the  difficulties we face. I use the word “difficulties” deliberately. I still do not believe this is a crisis. This is a new situation and  I would like us not to compare this to the crisis the Organization underwent in the past – the conditions, the starting point  and the modalities are not the same.
36.26  We must rally, first of all, first and foremost, around our values in this time of difficulty. We need to find  consensus as we move forward. And, if you will allow me, there is a classical Latin word of wisdom which goes: Festina  lente. Make haste slowly.
36.27  I do believe, ladies and gentlemen, that we have to be deliberative but we also have to be very decisive. We  have to act now. I would propose tomorrow to the first meeting of the new Executive Board that it convene a session of  the new Executive Board earlier than we normally do. I believe that the urgency of the situation compels us not to delay  and to discuss the financial situation of the Organization along with the other items on the agenda and that we convene  not later than the end of February and the beginning of March. I believe that we will have to take important decisions and  I would like also to have the Executive Board as a partner so that I can share with the Executive Board, and report to it,  all the decisions that I will have taken by that time on the cost savings to be made under the different programmes and  savings in the administrative expenditures of this Organization.
36.28   Madam President of the General Conference, I would now like us, if possible, to move on to the discussion of  the document that I have proposed, 36 C/37 Addendum 2. As I have extensively elaborated on the different proposals,  allow me now to draw attention to one particular point, namely the Working Capital Fund, which has been extensively  discussed today. After very careful, very extensive deliberations, I believe that we have come to a consensus text that  will shortly be appearing on the screen. But before that, I would suggest, Madam President, that maybe you take up the  document from the very beginning. And when it comes to paragraph 7 of the draft resolution, I want to report to the  General Conference, to the plenary, that the wording you will see on the screen is a result of very, very careful,  deliberate consideration, taking into account all the concerns of different Member States, and I believe strongly that when  it comes to paragraph 7, we can take this by consensus. Thank you very much.
37. The President:   Thank you very much, Madam Director-General. Ladies and gentlemen, I would now like to give the floor to the  Secretary of the General Conference, to make it entirely clear what we are talking about because we have a document  on our table which is Addendum 2, but according to what we have just heard from the Director-General, there have been  some further changes made to that document, too. And that is the version that will appear on the screen. So I am now  giving the floor to the Secretary.
38.1 The Secretary:    Thank you, Madam President. Yes, I would just like to recall that the first version of the corresponding draft  resolution was dealt with in the Administrative Commission and it was contained in document 36 C/37 Addendum. And  as a result of the work of the Administrative Commission, the draft resolution proposed by the Administrative Commission  was contained in paragraph 24 of the written report of the Administrative Commission, document 36 C/69.
38.2 Yesterday, the Director-General issued another addendum to the original document. That was 36 C/37  Addendum 2. As a result of the preliminary discussions yesterday, a revised version of that new document was issued  this afternoon – 36 C/37 Add.2 Rev.2.
38.3 That is the same document reproduced with new changes. The changes in the draft resolution contained in that  document referred to paragraphs 1-4 which are new paragraphs as compared to the text that was considered in the  Administrative Commission. And also paragraphs 6, 7 and 8, which were new paragraphs compared to what was  considered in the Administrative Commission. All the rest of the text is unchanged.
38.4 And now, on the screen, behind you, as the Director-General has just told you, as a result of further  consultations, there are further changes to paragraph 7. I am going to read paragraph 7, at dictation speed, in the new  version so that you can all hear in the six languages of this conference how the new paragraph 7 now reads:  “Paragraph 7:  Decides to delegate to the Executive Board the authority to examine and, if appropriate, decide upon at its 189th  session, a new level of working capital required to ensure the financial stability of the Organization with inputs  from a working group composed of Member States from all electoral groups convened by the President of the  General Conference and open to all Member States. Should the Executive Board find it necessary to increase  the level of the Working Capital Fund, its implementation will be on a voluntary basis. Further decides to  provisionally suspend Financial Regulation 6.2 until the 37th session of the General Conference.”
38.5 That is the final text of paragraph 7 of this new proposal for the resolution on the Working Capital Fund. Thank  you, Madam President.
39. The President:   Thank you very much. Now ladies and gentlemen, I would like to open the floor for comments, and I see the  plate of Norway.
40.1 Norway:   Madam President, Madam Director-General, delegates, dear friends of UNESCO, I did not have the opportunity  because I had no instructions yesterday to take the floor, so I would like to make a general remark on the situation and  also comment on the paper.
40.2 Norway is a strong believer of a multilateral system. We believe in and advocate for an efficient United Nations  system. Norway is the seventh largest contributor to the United Nations system as a whole and the fifth largest  extrabugetary donor to UNESCO. We firmly believe in UNESCO’s peace mandate and its convening power. Norway will  argue that all Member States of UNESCO should meet their obligations fully. When the Director-General appeals for  support in a difficult situation, Norway will respond positively.
40.3 There is a liquidity crisis hitting the Organization by the end of this year. According to the Director-General, we  are left with zero cash. Nil euros, nil dollars when we go from 2011 to 2012. It is not a question of economic
426  technicalities. It is actually an existential question of the future of the Organization, a political issue we need to address  seriously and it cannot be postponed, and I underline, it cannot be delayed.
40.4 Norway has, for a long time, advocated slimming and trimming the Organization. But this needs to be done  strategically. A liquidity crisis is not the tool we need. It will not do. We can ill afford to make cuts and savings that will  seriously impact on the Organization’s ability to deliver. The results may be to lose young talents just because their  employment contracts are weak. Not to be present in critical United Nations coordination meetings. Not to be able to  meet the Member States’ urgent need for assistance, be it Afghanistan or South Sudan, because the money bag is  empty. This is not in our common interest.
40.5 Norway is aware of the revision done and the amendments made today. This may elicit a consensus but I am  afraid to say that it will probably not solve the problem. Norway would support the proposed increase of the Working  Capital Fund and primarily we think it is a decision belonging to the General Conference but are willing to delegate  authority to the Executive Board, if that is seen as a one-time measure. We will advance our contribution, our 2012  contribution, to January and we will consider the request from the Director-General to make voluntary contributions when  we have more information and the modalities are clearer. We fully support the United Kingdom Ambassador’s strong  message to delegate to the Director-General the necessary latitude to use the resources in a flexible way, in the best  interests of the Organization, our Organization. Thank you very much.
41. The President:    Thank you very much, Your Excellency. I would like to give the floor to the Ambassador of the United Kingdom.
42.1 United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland:   Thank you very much, Madam President. And Madam Director-General, thank you for the spirit in which you  have done everything you have tried to do for this. I think when we are deliberating on this, we need to remember a  number of things: you are not asking us to pay more into the Organization. You are not asking us to surrender resources  right now. You are asking us to postpone things that might come back to us. You are asking us to put our trust in you, to  give you a bigger cushion.
42.2 I am very struck by the fact that we are talking partly about the Working Capital Fund, and in a sense we should  have been talking about this at the General Conference anyway. We should have been talking about this because the  level is just not enough. When any other institution has 10%-12%, why do we have only 4.5%? In your own life, a  financial adviser will always tell that you should have a salary cushion of the equivalent of 3 months. UNESCO has three  weeks. That is not even enough between the day we know we have an emergency and the day we can convene an  emergency General Conference session to deal with it. So the Working Capital Fund in the end is definitely going to have  to increase.
42.3 I want to commend the efforts you have made to make savings. I want to commend the spirit in which you have  done all of this. You have done it by seeking to enable any of us to support you in a way that suits our individual  circumstances. You have made it as voluntary as possible.
42.4 So all I would say is I very much hope that when we get to paragraph 7 we can adopt it by consensus. I mean,  let us be brutally honest here. What we are asking for is permission for a possible, temporary, voluntary increase in the  Working Capital Fund. A possible, temporary, voluntary – it does not get any less compulsory than that. So we have  done everything we possibly can to help everyone in the room have a paragraph they can sign up to and you have done  it in exactly the right spirit possible. You said you wanted the Executive Board to be your partner in solving this problem  and going forward. All I can say, Madam Director-General, is that, as a newly elected Member of the Executive Board,  we are proud to be your partner.
43. The President:   Thank you very much. I would like to give the floor to France.
44.1 France :   Merci, Madame la Présidente. La France voudrait s’associer aux propos qui ont été tenus à l’instant par  l’Ambassadeur du Royaume-Uni et vous apporter, Madame la Directrice générale, toute sa confiance. Comme première  preuve de cette confiance, je souhaite d’ores et déjà indiquer que la France – qui s’est battue, comme vous le savez,  pour le maintien du système d’incitation au paiement rapide, et qui est l’un des pays qui en bénéficient le plus – est tout  à fait favorable, compte tenu des circonstances, à la proposition que vous avez faite, à savoir différer le paiement de ce  qui est versé au titre de ce système à une date ultérieure, lorsque la situation se sera améliorée. Donc nous sommes en  faveur de la proposition que vous avez faite, tendant à surseoir à l’application de ce système d’incitation au paiement  rapide. Et j’appelle d’ailleurs tous ceux qui, parmi les États membres, bénéficient également de ce système à faire de  même dans les circonstances présentes. Je crois que c’est un signe de confiance et d’engagement fort en faveur de  notre Organisation.
44.2 Vous nous avez aussi demandé, Madame la Directrice générale, compte tenu des circonstances, une marge de  manœuvre accrue. Là aussi, nous vous soutenons. Nous souhaitons que vous puissiez bénéficier de cette marge de  manœuvre accrue. Je rappelle – j’ai eu l’occasion de le dire et de l’indiquer hier – que lorsque, dans nos pays, il y a des  circonstances qui sont exceptionnelles, qui n’étaient pas prévisibles, notamment des circonstances financières  exceptionnelles, eh bien, il est de coutume et il est de bonne pratique que nous accordions à nos dirigeants des pouvoirs  accrus, des prérogatives accrues lorsque cela est nécessaire. Eh bien, je crois que le moment est venu aussi de vous  accorder cette facilité, cette marge de manœuvre, et c’est un second témoignage de notre confiance.
44.3 Enfin, pour le Fonds de roulement et la rédaction du paragraphe 7 du projet de résolution que nous allons devoir  adopter et examiner, vous avez, je crois, répondu aux inquiétudes qui s’étaient manifestées. L’ensemble des États  membres seront étroitement associés au débat qui aura lieu sur le Fonds de roulement grâce à la création – que nous  approuvons – du groupe de travail. Vous appelez à la collaboration de tous les États membres sans vouloir imposer quoi  que ce soit. Je crois qu’en effet, les termes de la rédaction de ce paragraphe 7 ont été pesés, largement discutés et  débattus au préalable et nous soutiendrons l’adoption de ce paragraphe sans modification. Merci.
45. The President:    Thank you very much. I would like to give the floor to Congo.
46. Congo :   Merci beaucoup, Madame la Présidente. Madame la Présidente, Madame la Directrice générale, aujourd’hui  même, cet après-midi, le Groupe africain a tenu une réunion extraordinaire au cours de laquelle il a examiné, entre  autres, la situation financière actuelle de l’UNESCO. Il n’y a pas eu de décision formelle de ce Groupe. Cependant, je me  permettrai de dire ceci : au vu du tableau d’évaluation des contributions financières au budget de l’UNESCO, l’Afrique  est très loin d’occuper les premiers rangs. En réalité, la part de l’Afrique ne représente que quelques gouttes dans un  verre d’eau. C’est pourquoi j’en appelle à la compréhension, à la bonne volonté et à la générosité des pays qui  contribuent le plus au budget de l’UNESCO pour qu’ils viennent en aide à cette illustre Organisation dans l’intérêt de  nous tous, certes, mais surtout de l’Afrique, de l’égalité des genres et de la jeunesse, reconnues par tous comme des  priorités de cette Organisation dans le cadre de ses programmes axés sur l’éducation, la science et la culture, éléments  indispensables du développement. Certes, l’UNESCO n’est pas l’organisation de la Directrice générale, mais c’est elle  qui souffre le plus, à en juger par cet appel pathétique qu’elle vient de nous lancer ici. Ainsi donc, venir en aide à  l’UNESCO, c’est venir en quelque sorte aussi en aide à la Directrice générale, et lui donner les moyens d’agir. En  attendant, Madame la Directrice générale, vous pouvez compter sur le soutien de l’Afrique, qui tire un grand profit de son  appartenance à l’UNESCO. Je vous remercie.
47. The President:    Thank you very much, Your Excellency. I am giving the floor to Gabon.
48.1 Gabon :   Merci, Madame la Présidente de la Conférence générale. Excellence Madame la Présidente de la Conférence  générale, Excellence Madame la Directrice générale de l’UNESCO, le Gabon, par ma voix, souhaite d’abord vous  féliciter pour toutes les explications que vous nous avez fournies, pour tout le travail que vous avez accompli pour nous  mettre au fait de la situation financière de notre Institution. Nous nous félicitons de la qualité des mesures que vous et  toute votre équipe avez suggérées pour faire face à la difficulté présente. Madame la Directrice générale, nous  souhaitons donc vous remercier pour votre brillante intervention sur la situation financière de notre Organisation  consécutivement à l’admission de la Palestine comme 195e État membre à part entière de notre Organisation. Cette  décision historique a entraîné l’arrêt immédiat et brutal de la contribution de certains pays. Madame la Directrice  générale, en ma qualité d’Ambassadrice, déléguée permanente de la République gabonaise auprès de l’UNESCO, j’ai  immédiatement informé les plus hautes autorités de notre pays, en tête desquelles S. E. M. Ali Bongo Ondimba,  Président de la République gabonaise, Chef de l’État, de la présente situation. J’ai donc, Madame la Directrice générale,  l’immense plaisir de vous annoncer que S. E. M. Ali Bongo Ondimba, Président de la République gabonaise, Chef de  l’État, a décidé, au cours d’un Conseil des ministres tenu ce jour, d’accorder à l’UNESCO une contribution exceptionnelle  de deux millions de dollars des États-Unis.
48.2 Je vous ferai parvenir dans les meilleurs délais le détail des modalités du transfert de ladite somme, contribution  de notre pays, le Gabon, au règlement de la présente situation, à laquelle nous faisons face ensemble. Madame la  Directrice générale, le Gabon, en sa qualité de nouveau membre élu du Conseil exécutif, sera toujours à vos côtés pour  vous soutenir. Je vous remercie de votre aimable attention.
49. The President:   Thank you very much, Your Excellency. Now I would like to give the floor to Madagascar.
50. Madagascar :   Madame la Présidente, Madagascar tient à réaffirmer son soutien sans faille à la Directrice générale et son  approbation du budget à croissance nominale zéro. Madagascar estime que pour faire face aux difficultés financières  actuelles, la Conférence générale doit accorder à la Directrice générale les marges de manœuvre nécessaires pour  qu’elle puisse aussi conclure des protocoles d’accord avec un maximum de partenaires du secteur privé. Madagascar  appuie, de ce fait, le projet de résolution figurant dans le document 36 C/35 et qui, en son paragraphe 11, renouvelle  l’autorisation accordée à la Directrice générale de contracter des emprunts à court terme. Madame la Présidente,  Madagascar approuve aussi la délégation au Conseil exécutif du pouvoir d’envisager et d’arrêter, à sa 189e session, le  relèvement du plafond du Fonds de roulement, avec le concours d’un groupe de travail ouvert à tous les États membres.  Madagascar appuie sans réserve le projet de résolution proposé dans le document 36 C/37 Add.2 Rev.2. Merci de votre  attention.
51. The President:    Thank you very much. I am giving the floor to Senegal.
52. Sénégal :   Merci, Madame la Présidente. La délégation du Sénégal s’associe à la déclaration du Président du Groupe  africain. En outre, le Sénégal pense que la difficile situation que notre Organisation vit en ce moment découle d’une  décision souveraine de la Conférence générale et que, par conséquent, les États membres que nous sommes doivent
428  en assumer les conséquences solidairement. Et en ce qui nous concerne, et au stade actuel – je dis bien : au stade  actuel – notre délégation soutient fortement les solutions préconisées par la Directrice générale et appuie le  paragraphe 7 du projet de résolution qui nous est soumis actuellement en attendant de voir éventuellement ce que notre  pays peut faire à l’instar du Gabon. Merci.
53. The President:    Thank you very much. I am giving the floor to Zimbabwe.
54.1 Zimbabwe:   Thank you very much, Madam President. We welcome the opportunity to make a contribution to this very critical  issue. Madam President, the sombre mood and the sense of uncertainty that face our Organization today at a time when  we are concluding what has by and large been a productive General Conference are downright depressing. We Member  States and staff are naturally concerned about what the future holds for our Organization as a result of the decision by  some Member States not to respect their freely assumed financial obligation to this Organization. We hold the view that  whatever we may agree on to deal with the current emergency does not absolve them of those obligations. So far in the  discussion on this issue, we have not heard anyone say they are ready to see UNESCO fall into inexistence. None. None  whatsoever. Everyone has explicitly or implicitly expressed their commitment to the continued existence of UNESCO.  And not only that, but also to its role as an invaluable and effective global player in its areas of competence. Would we  not be hypocritical and unrealistic to expect it to do so while at the same time we deny it the resources it needs to  achieve those lofty objectives? We have all expressed confidence in what the Director-General is doing to ensure that  UNESCO delivers efficiently on its mandate. We have pledged to support her as she undertakes the responsibilities we  have reposed in her but should this support and confidence remain only at the level of rhetoric and high-sounding words?  I believe not. In brief, let us do as we say. Let us put our money where our mouths are. On the part of my country, in  spite of our many financial and economic challenges, we will do everything possible to pay our regular contributions for
2012 early in the year. The moment I receive that invoice, we will make sure that we pay it. We support the Director- General’s proposal on the deferment of the payment of the incentive scheme and on the Working Capital Fund. We  would have preferred a compulsory, not voluntary, contribution to assure certainty of cash flow. When we say this, in the  light of past experience, it is because in the past voluntary contributions have not met expectations. We hope this time it  will be different.
54.2 If you permit me, Madam President, I just want to refer to this document 36 C/37 Add.2 Rev. On page 4 of the  English version, paragraph 5, subparagraph (c), in the last sentence, should it read “translation” or “transaction” gains ? I  thank you.
55. The President:   Thank you very much. The term is “translation gains”. Are you asking for an explanation? I give the floor to  Zimbabwe.
56. Zimbabwe:    What does “translation gains” mean? I thought it was “transaction gains”. Thank you.
57. The President:    I would like to give the floor to the Chief Financial Officer. Thank you very much.
58. Ms Wozencraft (Chief Financial Officer):   The term refers to currency transactions for contributions, where both the realized and the unrealized differences  in currency gains are recorded in an account so that we can track them, a split-level assessment system for contributions  being currently in operation.
59. The President:   Thank you very much. And thank you very much, Your Excellency, for your words. I would like to give the floor to  Italy now.
60.1 Italie :   Merci, Madame la Présidente. Je n’évoquerai pas les conditions difficiles dans lesquelles notre Organisation se  trouve aujourd’hui parce qu’elles ont fait l’objet de multiples interventions, si éloquentes, de la Directrice générale. Il n’est  pas besoin de rappeler – mais je le ferai quand même – le soutien ferme et convaincu de l’Italie à notre Institution, elle  qui se place au premier rang des contributions extrabudgétaires et au sixième pour les contributions ordinaires. Je me  limiterai à deux observations factuelles. La première, c’est que nous avons, en effet, plus que jamais besoin, dans ces  moments difficiles, d’une direction dans laquelle nous puissions avoir toute confiance – et nous avons la plus grande  confiance en ses capacités au service du bien de notre Organisation. Et vous me permettrez d’user d’une métaphore  marine : « Tout marin sait qu’il ne faut jamais douter du capitaine par gros temps » et nous avons plus que jamais besoin  aujourd’hui de notre capitaine et son équipe, si compétente et motivée, à la tête de notre navire.
60.2 L’autre observation est une observation factuelle. Nous avions émis – notre délégation – des doutes sur  quelques points du document qui avait été soumis hier – non pour remettre en cause leur bien-fondé, mais plutôt du  point de vue de la faisabilité technique. Or, il nous semble que la nouvelle version du projet de résolution, tel qu’il figure  dans le document révisé, est un compromis tout à fait acceptable et expose très clairement la finalité du document tel  qu’il nous a en plus été explicité par la Directrice générale. Donc cette délégation est prête – et appelle les autres  délégations à la suivre – à approuver par consensus l’ensemble du projet de résolution, y compris le point 7, tel qu’il est  désormais libellé. Je vous remercie, Madame la Présidente.
61. The President:   Thank you very much. Your Excellencies, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to close the list of speakers and I  am asking the Secretary to read the list out now.
63. The President:   Thank you. I am giving the floor to Mexico now.
(64.1) Mexico (translation from the Spanish):  Thank you, Madam President; I will try to be as brief as possible. Mexico is a country that also has, like my  colleagues present here, a historical commitment to the objectives and purposes of UNESCO. Faced with the complex  situation the Organization finds itself in, we reaffirm our willingness to comply promptly with our obligations and make our  contributions in a proper and timely manner, as we have always done before. The crossroads that the Organization is facing  also gives us the opportunity to reaffirm our confidence in the Director-General’s leadership and our support for her  management. We are aware that the situation that has arisen will necessarily lead us to stepping up the series of reforms and  adjustments to the structure and functioning of the Organization. These reforms are under way. They have been discussed at  length, and the Director-General and her team have informed us of their decision to continue with them.
(64.2) We agree to join the consensus on this draft resolution, it being understood that, as our colleague from the United  Kingdom rightly stated a few moments ago, there is no need to make additional contributions or make up for the contributions  of other States that are not currently able to pay them. We need, nonetheless, to be conscientious and flexible as we seek the  options and alternatives that will enable our Organization move beyond this crossroads. In this context, we would like to show  our willingness and interest in taking part in the aforementioned open working group. Furthermore, when this matter comes up  at the next meeting of the Executive Board (I would like to take this opportunity to thank the delegations that showed their  confidence in us by electing us to the next Executive Board), we will also be ready to consider the best ways of finding a  solution to these problems with the utmost conscientiousness and flexibility.
(64.3) I request, Madam President, that the Secretariat of this Organization take note of the remarks currently put forward  by the Mexican delegation. Thank you very much.
65. The President:   Thank you very much. I am giving the floor to Namibia.
66. Namibia:   Thank you, Madam President. Like many other Member States, Namibia applauds the Director-General for her  swift reaction to the challenging situation the Organization is going through. As has been stated by some countries and  by the Director-General herself yesterday, UNESCO belongs to us, the Member States. We acknowledge and appreciate  the value of UNESCO. UNESCO’s action has made a difference in the lives of many people around the globe. As such,  we have a keen interest in seeing to it that UNESCO prevails and continues its noble work. This is our collective  responsibility. We have communicated the Director-General’s proposal to our national authorities and Namibia is  exploring the ways and means of making a humble contribution to a speedy recovery from this current cash-flow difficulty  that is facing the Organization. This includes the early payment of our 2012 financial contribution as soon as we have  received the notice letter and our acceptance of the postponement of the incentive scheme. Once more, Madam  Director-General, you have our full support and our trust and we are confident that, with the collective efforts of the  Member States, we can overcome the current challenge. Thank you, Madam President.
67. The President:   Thank you very much, Your Excellency. I am giving the floor to China.
(68) China (translation from the Chinese):   Thank you, Madam President and Madam Director-General. Since Member States were facing economic austerity  and financial difficulties, document 36 C/5 had to be adjusted with a zero-nominal growth (ZNG) policy. We are sorry to see  new uncertainties arise, causing even more difficulties for the Organization’s normal work. Hence, we support the General  Conference in adopting the zero nominal growth budget that the Director-General has proposed. We appreciate the Director- General’s response to the current difficulties, particularly the insufficiency of working capital, and her efforts to promote  consultations with Member States and to ensure the transparency of this process. In regard to the issue of the “incentive  scheme” in paragraph 4 of this document, we support the Director-General’s proposed option for the scheme. As far as the  Working Capital Fund is concerned, we have four observations. Firstly, concerning 36 C/37 Addendum 2 Rev.2, we are in  favour of Option 2, to augment the level of the Working Capital Fund by inviting Member States to make advances, which will  be refunded by deduction from their assessed contributions at the time of repayment. However, my delegation has yet to  report to our government for further instructions before we confirm our final position. Secondly, the Chinese delegation actively  supports the Director-General’s measures within the Organization, so as to further improve the Secretariat’s efficiency, reduce  unnecessary expenses, appropriately postpone the execution of non-priority projects, and resolutely terminate activities that  are not related to the core operations of the Organization or that overlap with the fields of competence of other United Nations  bodies. We would also like to invite the Executive Board to list the Organization’s recent work in the order of priority, under the  condition that no projects related to Priority Africa are abolished and that there is no reduction in assistance to least developed  countries. Thirdly, given the considerable amount of the Organisation’s extrabudgetary resources and Funds-in-Trust, we  suggest that the Director-General, after consultation with the States concerned, revise their contracts as appropriate, and  make flexible arrangements to address the current urgency. Finally, we support the creation of an open working group to act  collectively to find a feasible solution. The Chinese Government supports all actions of the Organization, as it has done in the  past, and will address current difficulties together with all the other Member States. We would also like to support the Director- General’s appeal for all Member States to comply in full with their statutory obligations to the Organization. To those who fail to  do so, we support the Director-General’s request that they change their position and be held accountable for the difficult  situation they have caused. Thank you.
69. The President:    Thank you very much, Your Excellency. I am giving the floor to Colombia now.
(70.1) Colombia (translation from the Spanish):   Thank you, Madam President. We thank and applaud the Director-General for her timely response and the clear,  concise balance she has drawn up of the Organization’s financial situation. For this reason, we join the countries that spoke  before us, giving her our full confidence regarding the Organization. We would like to grant her the leeway she requires and  deserves in these exceptional circumstances, so we support the draft resolution as submitted to us.
(70.2) Colombia reaffirms its commitment to the Organization. We hope that these measures will lead us to concrete, short- term solutions as we seek financial sustainability for this institution. Thank you.
71. The President:   Thank you very much, Your Excellency. I am giving the floor to Cuba.
(72.1) Cuba (translation from the Spanish):  Thank you very much. Madam President, Madam Director-General, the delegation of Cuba wishes to point out that  we are not responsible for the situation in which the Organization currently finds itself. It is against every democratic law that  the majority should be punished because of a minority that does not accept the legal obligations with which all the Member  States of this Organization must comply. Furthermore, it is not the first time that this Organization has faced such a situation.  In the past, there were very difficult times, but UNESCO survived and kept going. Today will be no different. We consider that,  in such times, the first thing to do is to identify operating expenditure savings for the Organization, to be more efficient and  effective, to eliminate needless expenditure and jobs, to rescind unnecessary contracts and really focus the resources we  have on high-priority programmes. We also believe that in difficult times it is necessary, as mentioned by other Members, to  give a vote of confidence to the Director-General, who has all the ability and leadership we need to get us out of this difficult  situation. Cuba reiterates its support and commitment for the Director-General and UNESCO. We will do everything we  possibly can to help achieve our common goal.
(72.2) As to the new version of the draft resolution contained in document 36 C/37 Add.2 Rev.2 that we are examining, my  delegation supports it and endorses the proposal contained in paragraph 7 of the document. Furthermore, we consider it wise  to move the 189th session of the Executive Board forward to the month of February, as proposed by the Director-General.  Thank you very much.
73. The President:   Thank you very much, Your Excellency. I am giving the floor to Gambia.
74. Gambia:   Thank you, Madam President. I wish to join the previous speakers in applauding the Director-General for the  swift response to this crisis. This is a challenge for the Organization but it is a challenge that is not insurmountable  because, if we unite as she rightly said in her statement, we should be able to address the problem and face the  challenges squarely. In that regard, I want to say that the Gambia supports the draft resolution and in particular  paragraph 7, and wish to say that we will increase our contribution. We will double our contribution beginning January  and we will make sure that we pay in a timely manner, and wish also to say that we will give our continued support to the  Director-General to make sure that she attains the objectives that we have all set ourselves as an organization. I thank  you very much.
75. The President:   Thank you very much, Your Excellency. I am giving the floor now to Guatemala.
(76.1) Guatemala (translation from the Spanish):  Thank you very much, Madam President. Guatemala recognizes the effort that the Director-General is making in this  difficult time and is grateful. Madam Director-General, Guatemala gives your management a vote of confidence and is in
432  favour of granting you more authority and leeway in your handling of this crisis. Guatemala wishes you to know, Madam  Director-General, that you are not alone and that all those who believe in this Organization will be at your side and, especially,  all those who wish to save multilateralism, the best and most civilized kind of relations between States. Together, we are all  UNESCO, and together we will find a way out of this complex situation without compromising our principles. Principles are  invaluable and are our common heritage. This crisis makes it clear that rather than undergoing an administrative reform, which  would just be one more in a long series, UNESCO needs to be redesigned, using the Organization’s great intellectual and  ethical mission as a foundation. Today, the ethical vocation that this great house can inspire and lead is more crucial than ever  before. We wish, therefore, to return to UNESCO’s roots. As the Nobel Peace Prize winner Alfredo Pérez Esquivel stated:  “When you do not know where you are going, stop and look where you have come from.”
(76.2) Guatemala, a country that has emerged from conflicts and catastrophes and that regularly pays its contributions, will  make an effort to advance its payments and to increase the amount voluntarily. We support the draft resolution submitted to us  and delegate the authority to the Executive Board to examine the decision. Thank you very much.
77. The President:   Thank you very much, Your Excellency. I am now giving the floor to Pakistan.
78. Pakistan:   Thank you, Madam. I would like to say that UNESCO was one of the first organizations to respond to the  desperate call of Pakistanis during the devastating floods in 2010. We believe in UNESCO. We believe in you, Madam  Director-General. We have faith in your leadership and appreciate your having steered us through difficult situations. We  thank you for the information you have provided and assure you of our full cooperation. And also as a Member of the  Executive Board, you will have our full support.
78.2 We strongly support the solution presented by you and we will see what we can do on an immediate basis to  support the important tasks carried out by UNESCO. It is said that when the going gets tough, the tough gets going. And  I would quote the poet and my mentor Allama Muhammad Iqbal: “Don’t be scared of the fast-blowing wind, it only helps  an eagle to fly higher.” And we believe that you will fly even higher and take the Organization out of its present situation.  Thank you.
79. The President:    Thank you very much. And now I am giving the floor to Uganda.
80. Uganda:   Thank you, Madam President. Madam President, hard times call for hard decisions, and the decisions and  guidelines the Director-General has just presented to us are one such example. Uganda fully supports the proposals the  Director-General has made and we will go all the way to stand with her in these very hard times. Since we will not have  direct financial contributions to make, we would like to commit ourselves to regular and timely payment of our regular  contributions and also, as a beneficiary of the incentive fund, we would like to agree with her to the suspension of the  scheme for now and would also like to propose that, for our part, we would even prefer that the Ugandan component of  the fund go directly to the Working Capital Fund. We would not want that money even when the time comes. This would  be our small way of showing our contribution to the need for the children of this world to have an education, to claim their  rights and to enjoy their culture in a free and peaceful society. Madam Director-General, we stand with you. Thank you.
81. The President:    Thank you very much. I am giving the floor to Argentina now.
(82.1) Argentina (translation from the Spanish):  Madam President, Argentina would also like to join those who spoke before in adding a few words. We wish to  reaffirm our support for the Director-General in these exceptional circumstances, as well as our commitment to UNESCO. The  crisis that is currently affecting the Organization must be tackled jointly by the Member States and the Secretariat, in a  constructive manner. We think that every attempt must be made to maintain the programmes.
(82.2) Crises provide opportunities and, accordingly, we consider that this is the time to focus on UNESCO’s main priorities  and on the mind-set that should truly guide our work. Let us also bear in mind that everything the Director-General has just  said is of great value. We too think that rationalizing expenditure, as she said, is extremely important, because it implies  adopting a preventative attitude to circumstances that are really very difficult, in order to maintain the programmes and staff.
(82.3) We support this amendment as submitted by the Director-General and we give her all our support in these difficult  circumstances. Thank you very much.
83. The President:    Thank you very much. I am giving the floor to Canada.
84.1 Canada :   Madame la Présidente, le 31 octobre dernier, la Conférence générale a voté en faveur de l’adhésion à  l’UNESCO de l’Autorité palestinienne. La décision a été prise en toute connaissance des conséquences financières qui  allaient en résulter. La Directrice générale doit administrer l’Organisation avec un budget annuel amputé de 72 millions  de dollars. En gestionnaire responsable, elle a immédiatement cherché à identifier les économies possibles à l’intérieur  des ressources existantes. Nous la remercions. Nous demandons à la Directrice générale de poursuivre ses efforts et de  faire rapport à la 189e session du Conseil exécutif sur les possibilités d’économies identifiées. Nous attendons  également que la Directrice générale tienne les États membres au courant de manière régulière d’ici là.
84.2 Madame la Présidente, nous avons examiné les amendements proposés par la Directrice générale cet après- midi. La position du Canada est claire : nous sommes fermement opposés à toute proposition qui impliquerait que les  États membres doivent apporter une contribution financière supplémentaire pour faire face aux conséquences du vote  du 31 octobre. Pour cette raison, nous demandons la suppression du paragraphe 4 portant sur le mécanisme d’incitation  rapide au paiement des contributions. Nous ne croyons pas qu’il soit opportun que la Conférence générale revienne lors  de la présente session sur une résolution prise antérieurement avec l’accord de tous les États membres. Enfin, nous  appuyons les efforts déployés par la Directrice générale pour recueillir des contributions volontaires et invitons les États  qui le peuvent à fournir de telles contributions. Merci, Madame la Présidente.
(86) Saudi Arabia (translation from the Arabic):   Madam President of the General Conference, Madam Director-General, we understand very well your concern about  the ability of this Organization to continue to function with its customary effectiveness because of this crisis, and we share your  concern. For our part, we in Saudi Arabia support all the measures that have been announced, and we are in favour of  increasing the level of the Working Capital Fund, which is quite low in comparison with that of other international organizations,  and we agree with your proposal to postpone incentives and to accelerate the payment of assessed contributions. We will  endeavour to pay Saudi Arabia’s contribution as soon as next January. And we in Saudi Arabia will encourage institutions and  individuals to contribute to the voluntary donations fund in recognition of the standing of UNESCO and its humanitarian  endeavours. And we will follow up with our government the discussion of the appropriate form for our support to UNESCO in  helping it to face this crisis, not only at the financial level, but also at the political and ethical levels. We will move at the level of  the Arab region and more specifically the Gulf region to consult with our fellow Gulf States in order to devise a unified stance  and position to support the Organization. We suggest adding the following sentence: “Also decides to suspend provisionally  Article 6.2 of the Financial Regulations until the 37th session of the General Conference.” I reiterate our constant support and  backing to you and to UNESCO in the noble humanitarian course the Organization is pursuing. Madam Director-General, two  years ago, the Member States gave you their confidence and elected you Director-General of the Organization. These difficult  circumstances through which the Organization is passing and the positive reactions from the Member States constitute an  affirmation of our trust in you and in the role which you have performed. We extend a hearty salute to you and your team.  Thank you.
87. The President:    Thank you very much. I am giving the floor to Cameroon.
88. Cameroun :   Madame la Présidente, merci. Je pense que la question dont nous débattons est d’une très grande importance  et qu’il ne faut pas s’y soustraire. Je voudrais tout d’abord relever que Mme la Directrice générale, depuis son arrivée à  la tête de l’Organisation, a fait preuve de beaucoup de courage pour réformer l'Institution. Actuellement, cette dernière  fait face à une situation critique qui appelle, de la part des États membres, beaucoup de compréhension et un soutien  appuyé à la Directrice générale afin de l'aider à atteindre les objectifs qu’elle s’est fixés. Madame la Présidente, mon  pays a toujours fait preuve de sollicitude à l'égard de l’UNESCO et s’est régulièrement acquitté de ses contributions  statutaires. Le Cameroun est très sensible à l’appel lancé par Mme Bokova et voudrait saluer encore, au passage, sa  lucidité et son sens de la gestion, qui nous permettront de sortir de la crise actuelle. Ma délégation prend l’engagement  de transmettre à son Gouvernement les propositions qu’elle a soumises au débat. Pour ce qui est du paragraphe 7,
434  alinéa (a), de la résolution, nous en rendrons compte, comme il vient d’être dit, à notre capitale. Je suis convaincu  qu’avec les explications que nous lui fournirons, elle ne manquera pas de consentir un effort supplémentaire pour  accroître la contribution du Cameroun. Madame la Présidente, nous tenons à assurer la Directrice générale de notre  solidarité et de nos encouragements. Je vous remercie.
89. The President:   Thank you very much. I am giving the floor to Peru.
(90.1) Peru (translation from the Spanish):   Thank you, Madam President. Peru appreciates the way Madam Director-General addressed our Conference,  encouraging us to adopt a collective response to the situation we are currently experiencing. She also told us that our political  willpower and our capacity to carry out reforms are being tested. Furthermore, in the light of the situation, she requested  leeway to face these difficulties. I wish to grant those three requests: the collective response, the political will and the  additional leeway.
(90.2) Peru is a country that owes much to UNESCO: recognition of its heritage, improvements to its education system and  enhancement of its cultural diversity. For this reason, we foresee that Peru will make its contribution as soon as possible and  will organize fundraising in order to show the extent to which the Peruvian people, not just the Government, supports  UNESCO and especially the courageous management of its Director-General. Thank you very much.
91. The President:   Thank you very much. I am giving the floor to Germany.
92.1 Germany:   Thank you, Madam President. Madam Director-General, I think there are some people who know that I have  quite a romantic side but I will not show it here now, so forgive me for not sending flowers. But I do think it is good that  we sit here on the last day of the conference to discuss what we have to do, to realize how difficult the situation is, that it  is far more difficult than we may realize today because we all read the newspapers and the overall economic situation is  also difficult throughout the world. So we have the very best intentions here. I think every single one in this room, and no  one excluded, is a fan and follower of UNESCO and wants to do their very best to see UNESCO flourish. Every single  one of us in this room has worked in the last two years to get UNESCO on the reform track under your very, very able  leadership and we are so proud to be where we are now, because two years ago it seemed almost impossible to do this  in a short time-frame. Now we have presented and prepared all the necessary documents in the commissions. We have  done that on a zero nominal growth budget which was very responsible because we are under keen scrutiny from  parliaments and now we cannot change it and go through it again but we are very, very happy to have heard you,  Madam Director-General, say yesterday that you would do everything to economize, see where we have inefficiency in  structures and see how we can work on a basis that is lower, rather than pretending that we have everything unless our  friends help us with the trust fund and get the money quickly.
92.2 Germany thinks that the working group is a very well-established mechanism. We had fabulous experiences with  the last one and we would be very happy to take a very active role in this one. And we hope that it will have you, Madam  Director-General, and that we may help you in this working group to find alternative ways of financing. It will not be easy  but we will try that and we know ourselves to be in the best hands, also with our President of this session of the General  Conference.
92.3  I think that we have to make sure that we all understand that this is not the time for the finance issue to cause a  split in UNESCO and our work, because that would hamper our system. Germany like many others here is a very  devoted multilateralist. This is how we gained peace in our region and how we gained peace in the world and try to  contribute to it. But we have to be realistic and we have to be tough and we may have to make tough decisions and this  we can only do together.
92.4 On the incentive scheme, I must say that I understand the problems that Canada mentioned because I am a bit  afraid. If we proceed that way, it will not only be UNESCO funds that decide on financial matters. Sometimes there are  split responsibilities for transfers of money and if you take away an incentive scheme, it may lead to countries paying  later than all of us here would wish for.
92.5 It does not necessarily happen that way, but it might. I wonder whether we could skip it and then allow you to  write to the countries that pay early and ask them to accept a deferral which would make it a bit softer and more political  but would perhaps have the same effect or a better effect to assure early financing. So with all of this, we will try to do  our best and I think the important thing is that we all try to do our best. Thank you so much.
93. The President:   Thank you, Your Excellency. I am giving the floor to Bahamas now.
94. Bahamas:   Thank you, Madam President, for giving me the floor. John Donne said that no man is an island entirely unto  itself. Each is a part of the main. Every man’s death diminishes me. Therefore, do not seek to find out for whom the bell  tolls. It tolls for thee. I am stealing a phrase from something I heard before, that if UNESCO did not exist, we would have  to invent it. I know that I apologize to all of my colleagues for even taking the floor to reiterate what I think has been  beautifully said by most of you, but I thought that it would have been remiss of me if I did not take this time to express my  sincere gratitude to the Director-General for the clear and comprehensive report she has given to us on the current crisis  of the Organization. And I am also heartened by the very positive remarks made by my colleagues. It goes without  saying that my delegation has implicit trust in the leadership of the Director-General and strongly supports the appeal.  Even though my delegation’s contribution is rather small, I offer here moral support and I believe that, under the  circumstances, every little bit helps. So, in addition to encouraging my government to make a timely obligation payment, I  am going to appeal to the small developing States in my region to work together to assist the Director-General in  implementing her reform programmes. I am convinced that this could be done through unanimous support of the  resolution we have before us, and in particular paragraph 7. Thank you.
(96) Egypt (translation from the Arabic):   Thank you Madam President, and thank you, Your Excellency, Madam Director-General, for your rapid submission  of these solutions, which demonstrates the high degree of technical knowledge that you and your colleagues have. Thank you,  also, Madam Director-General, for adopting this approach of consultation with all groups and countries in putting forward these  proposals. Madam President, Egypt is a founder Member of the Organization, and helped to draft its Constitution, confident in  the role that this Organization could play in the life of the peoples of the world. Today the Organization is in difficulty; this is not  the first time we have faced such difficulties in the history of the Organization. But this time, the difficulty ‒ and I once again  salute you, Madam Director-General, for having used this expression ‒ the difficulty came from the Organization’s adoption of  a resolution, a sovereign and democratic resolution by the Member States. UNESCO is an organization of ideals and values; it  is the conscience of the United Nations system, and this is what has ensured its continued existence down to today. We in the  Arab region have a saying: “great individuals are born in times of trial and difficulty.” On this basis, I am confident that our  Organization will emerge from this crisis stronger and more determined than before to achieve its objectives for the benefit of  all the peoples of the world. Madam, Egypt and the Arab States have always been committed to paying their contributions, and  we shall be among the first countries to pay our dues for 2012. Once again, Madam President, Madam Director-General, we  pledge all possible support to you for your proposals, and we support paragraphs 4 and 7 of the draft resolution submitted.  Thank you.
(98) Sudan (translation from the Arabic):   Thank you very much, Madam President of the General Conference. I should like, on behalf of my delegation, to  thank the Director-General. We commend the detailed information she has provided to the General Conference in explanation  of the various aspects of this delicate financial situation, which will affect the course of the Organization in the coming period in  view of the circumstances that are well known to all. I should therefore like to express, on behalf of the delegation of the  Republic of Sudan, our solidarity and full support to the Director-General for the plan and proposals she has submitted to us in  order to get out of this difficult situation as rapidly as possible. In the near future, we will consider, God willing, how Sudan may
436  help UNESCO to overcome these exceptional circumstances, despite the exceptional circumstances that our country is itself  experiencing at present, as is well known to all. We are confident that what the Director-General has described as difficulties  are likely to open new horizons to the Organization and to be an incentive to undertake long overdue reforms. We believe that  opening the door to donations and gifts from institutions and individuals will also open up new horizons for broad groups of  beneficiaries in UNESCO’s various fields of endeavour. Thank you very much.
99. The President:   Thank you very much, Your Excellency. I am giving the floor to Benin.
100. Bénin :   Merci, Madame la Présidente. Madame la Directrice générale, je voudrais vous renouveler mon entière  confiance. Le Bénin a confiance en vous. Je voudrais également marquer mon accord avec la distinction conceptuelle  que vous faites entre « crise » et « difficulté ». Nous sommes devant des difficultés surmontables mais l’Organisation  n’est pas en crise. Chacun a réaffirmé sa pertinence et la nécessité de préserver son universalité. Le Bénin vous félicite,  Madame la Directrice générale, pour la rapidité et l’efficacité avec laquelle vous avez réagi face à ces difficultés et nous  approuvons toutes les mesures que vous avez prises. Chers collègues, devant une situation telle que celle que nous  connaissons, le maître mot est « solidarité ». Tout effort, d’où qu’il vienne, sera utile. Et, de même qu’à l’UNESCO il n’y a  pas de petit pays, il n’y aura pas de petite contribution. Le Bénin pense aussi que les secteurs géographiques qui sont  désignés comme prioritaires à l’UNESCO devraient donner l’exemple de la conscience la plus aigüe face à ces difficultés.  Or, comme vous le savez, l’Afrique est une priorité. Il est donc attendu d’elle, de nous, Africains, que nous ayons une  conduite de solidarité exemplaire. D’ailleurs, une voix plus autorisée que la mienne s’est exprimée à ce sujet : le  Président de la République du Bénin, M. Yayi Boni, que vous avez rencontré hier, Madame la Directrice générale, vous a  promis d’alerter ses frères et sœurs, chefs d’État africains. Je me souviens d’ailleurs qu’il a mentionné le Président  Bongo et je me réjouis de la prompte réaction du Gabon, que je félicite au passage, en espérant que cet exemple fera  des émules en Afrique. Enfin, Madame la Présidente, Madame la Directrice générale, le Bénin soutient fermement la  résolution qui nous est présentée, et particulièrement son paragraphe 7, et nous nous portons volontaires pour faire  partie du groupe de travail et travailler main dans la main avec tous les États qui le désirent. Merci, Madame la  Présidente.
101. The President:   Thank you very much. I give the floor to Belgium.
102.1 Belgique :   Merci beaucoup, Madame la Présidente. N’ayant pas eu l’occasion, hier, de prendre part au débat, je souhaite  transmettre un message à Mme la Directrice générale et lui dire à quel point nous tenons à la féliciter pour l’esprit dans  lequel elle gère la crise de liquidités que nous rencontrons. Dans l’immédiat, je pense effectivement que pour clôturer  l’année, vous n’avez pas beaucoup de choix. Vous nous avez présenté les options possibles. Je pense qu’il faut aller de  l’avant. Ce ne sera pas facile mais vous avez évidemment notre soutien. Pour le moyen terme, je crois qu’il faut vous  faire confiance et vous donner des marges de manœuvre pour pouvoir agir et gérer les choses dans l’intérêt de notre  Organisation et dans l’intérêt général, comme vous l’avez dit. Très clairement, les propositions qui nous sont présentées  et que nous nous apprêtons à approuver sont, à notre avis, tout à fait acceptables, et nous ferons de notre mieux pour  nous acquitter de notre contribution le plus tôt possible en 2012. Et, bien que nous soyons, contrairement à d’autres  pays ici présents, des pays bénéficiaires du système d’incitation au paiement rapide au cours de l’année, nous pourrons  toujours soutenir la proposition qui figure au paragraphe 4.
102.2 Quant au paragraphe 7, il nous semble effectivement que le document qui nous est présenté est, par rapport à  la version d’hier, peut-être celui qui recueille le plus de soutien suite aux larges consultations que vous avez menées ;  nous pourrons donc, bien évidemment, nous y rallier, mais nous pensons également comme, je crois, mon collègue du  Royaume-Uni, qu’il faudra probablement mener à moyen terme une réflexion sur un renforcement de ce Fonds de  roulement pour l’Organisation. Voilà, Madame la Directrice générale, ce que je voulais dire au nom de la Belgique. Je  vous remercie.
103. The President:   Thank you very much, Your Excellency. I am giving the floor to India.
104. India:   Thank you, Madam President. There have been 10 days of fast-moving developments and inevitably most of us  have been in contact with our capitals and headquarters. I have a message to convey through you to the Director- General from my government, which is confident of support and support that will continue through this difficult period. I  am not going to cover again the ground that has been covered so well over the last hour and more. We support  paragraphs 4 and 7, we support the draft resolution. This is a minimalist package very efficiently put together in a  participative way. We do believe, however, that this crisis is also an occasion for opportunity, one that will allow us to  bring about a more efficient and responsive UNESCO. We would urge at this time, at this juncture, that we also look at  prioritization. We support the efforts, the continuation of efforts, for Africa, to SIDS, the LDCs. We support the kind of  administrative measures that the Director-General is contemplating but, more importantly, we urge a return to the primary  tasks of UNESCO - education, science and culture - and we warn of the dangers of a creeping mandate of duplication, of  going beyond that to areas that we believe are either the domain of other agencies or could more efficiently be done by  others. So we would urge that this crisis be utilized to sharpen the priorities, bring about efficiency which is not just  administrative. Encouragingly, this evening we have listened to countries that have spoken of the financial, economic  difficulties we have gone through, or they are going through, or the world is going through, but I would like to reiterate  and bring to your the notice the courage of conviction and the strength of the convictions of those countries which,  despite their difficulties, despite their economic circumstances, have chosen to step up this evening and say they will
437  contribute more. Madam President, we work through our parliamentary budgetary and democratic processes and we  would no doubt take the message back to our governments that we would work with other countries to find ways to make  UNESCO stronger, less dependent on a few, and enlarge the areas of its support. Thank you, Madam President.
105. The President:   Thank you very much, Your Excellency, for your words. I am giving the floor to Kazakhstan.
106. Kazakhstan:   Thank you, Madam President. Kazakhstan joins previous speakers in welcoming and appreciating the efforts of  the Director-General to resolve this difficult situation. We believe that the options proposed by the Director-General are  relevant in the circumstances. We fully recognize the necessity of the urgent measures to be taken. Therefore, we  support the proposed document as it stands. Thank you, Madam President.
107. The President:   Thank you very much, and I now give the floor to Mali.
108.1 Mali :   Merci beaucoup, Madame la Présidente. Madame la Présidente, le Mali voudrait tout d’abord saluer toutes les  délégations qui ont précédemment pris la parole pour soutenir Mme la Directrice générale dans cette situation difficile  que traverse notre Institution, dont elle assure aujourd’hui la haute direction. Le Mali est également solidaire de la  déclaration prononcée par le Président du Groupe Afrique. Hier, nous avons immédiatement manifesté notre soutien,  dès la présentation par Mme la Directrice générale de la réalité de la situation. Le Mali redit aujourd’hui qu’il apprécie  hautement la réactivité salutaire de Mme la Directrice générale, qui a toute notre confiance quant à sa capacité de  relever, avec le large appui des États membres, les défis auxquels l’UNESCO fait face. Vous l’avez dit, Madame la  Directrice générale, l’heure est à l’unité. Il est temps pour nous de tirer tous ensemble dans la même direction. Nous  sommes convaincus, malgré la gravité de la situation et les incertitudes qui demeurent, qu’ensemble nous trouverons les  voies les meilleures pour conserver à cette vénérable Institution son rôle unique de conscience de la communauté  internationale et de gardienne ultime de la paix dans le monde. Le Mali est donc très sensible au message courageux,  historique et digne que vous nous lancez. En ce qui concerne nos obligations statutaires, notre pays a déjà réglé une  partie de sa contribution pour 2012 et, en attendant de rendre compte à nos plus hautes autorités de la situation que  l’UNESCO traverse aujourd’hui, nous nous engageons à faire accélérer le versement du reliquat de notre contribution  pour 2012.
108.2 Quant à la résolution proposée, le Mali, bien évidemment, la soutient fermement, en particulier le paragraphe 7,  dans lequel il se reconnaît pleinement. Nouveau membre du Conseil exécutif, mon pays se réjouit de la perspective de  développer un partenariat dynamique avec vous, Madame la Directrice générale. Vous pouvez compter sur le soutien  intellectuel et moral du Mali.
109. The President:   Thank you very much. Now I am giving the floor to the Netherlands.
110.1 Netherlands:   Thank you, Madam President. The Netherlands has always been a staunch supporter of UNESCO. If we have  made critical comments in recent weeks, or recent years even, these were always made in the spirit of commitment and  involvement. To illustrate this, in 2010, taking into account voluntary contributions, the Netherlands was the fourth largest  contributor to UNESCO. We have always made our contribution early in the year and will do so in 2012 as well, which  entitles us to benefit from the incentive scheme. We will, however, not oppose a temporary suspension of this scheme.
110.2 Madam President, we would have preferred to have this debate earlier in the General Conference and on the  basis of more detailed information on possible savings and budget revisions. We now feel somewhat in a pressure  cooker and that is not a very comfortable feeling to tell you the truth. We cannot help wondering if the Secretariat could  not have started preparatory work to this end immediately after the Executive Board voted in favour of admission of  Palestine because that made the scenario quite likely.
110.3 In addition to that, we regret very much the developments that led to the situation we now find ourselves in and  in this regard, I would like to support what was said by the Canadian delegate earlier this evening. As for the Working  Capital Fund, we should indeed, like the United Kingdom delegate said, have addressed this issue before. Although this  might not have ben adequate, we would not have been faced with this situation only now and could have dealt with it in a  more relaxed and calm manner than under the present circumstances.
110.4 Having said that, the Netherlands does not object to the proposal made in paragraph 7, which was revised  several times and improved upon, but we would like to stress that our consent to this paragraph is on the understanding  that the voluntary nature of the contributions will remain and will not be changed in the course of time. Thank you.
111. The President:   Thank you very much. I am giving the floor to the Bolivarian Republic of Venezuela.
(112.1) Bolivarian Republic of Venezuela (translation from the Spanish):    Thank you, Madam President. First, we would like to express our deepest solidarity to the Director-General regarding  the grave crisis UNESCO is currently going through. Venezuela, faithful to its obligations of payment to this Organization and  aware of the deficit that UNESCO must overcome, will make the necessary efforts to advance the payment of its contributions.  We welcome the austerity measures announced by the Director-General concerning administrative staff costs and sumptuary  expenses and, accordingly, we give her our vote of confidence.
(112.2) We consider that every Member should honour its commitments and assume its responsibilities so that this  Organization can accomplish its noble mission. Consequently, we deplore that the unilateral decisions taken by some  countries have become an economic sanction for UNESCO, one that is imputable to its Member States. The current economic  crisis is also systemic. Thus, we wonder what UNESCO needs in the twenty-first century. The global economic crisis, the rise  of a multipolar world, the grassroots Indignant movement and great social transformations lead us, in this historical moment, to  unhesitatingly push for redesigning UNESCO in order to overcome the great challenges of today’s world.
(112.3) Finally, Venezuela joins the consensus and supports paragraphs 4 and 7 of the draft resolution submitted by the  Director-General, as well as her proposal to bring forward the 189th session of the Executive Board to February. Thank you  very much.
113. The President:   Thank you very much. Now I am giving the floor to Nigeria.
114. Nigeria:   Thank you, Madam President. Madam Director-General, my delegation aligns itself with the statement of Congo  on behalf of the Africa Group and also several statements in this room in support of the Director-General and the  Organization at this moment in history. Nigeria will continue to support you, Madam Director-General, and your team in  all your efforts to deal with this present situation. We are happy that we will be able to actively give that support as a  Member of the Executive Board which is being called upon to take very important responsibilities at this moment. Madam  President, I can assure you that Nigeria will not stand unconcerned as UNESCO is faced with the present financial  difficulties. We will, as we have always done, do all in our power to be meaningful partners to the Organization and in this  regard fully endorse paragraphs 4 and 7 as proposed. Let me also assure you that Nigeria will pay its contributions early  in 2012 and make whatever additional contributions as directed by our capital. My delegation also wants to congratulate  the Director-General for setting up the online tool for contributions to the fund for core activities of UNESCO and we feel  assured that periodic updates on the sum so donated will be made available to the Member States. Once again, we  thank both the President of the General Conference and the Director-General, and stand ready to work with all our  colleagues to ensure that these efforts end in concrete proposals for the good of our Organization. I thank you all.
115. The President:   Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, so far we have listened to 35 speakers. I see here on my list three  more. I will give them the floor and then we will finish and move on. So now I will give the floor to Tonga, then the  Democratic Republic of the Congo and finally Niger. So please, that is the end of the list. Tonga, please.
116. Tonga:   Thank you, Madam President. I would just like to say how very touched I am by the presentation by the Director- General and the overwhelming support that has been expressed by many Member States. I am also aware of the burden  that the Director-General has to shoulder on behalf of our UNESCO family of 195 Member States, and I am sure that this  entails a lot of sleepless nights for the Director-General. Most of us look up to UNESCO as a beacon of hope to find  solutions to the abuse of human rights, environmental change, and so on. During the General Conference, I have often  heard the phrase that UNESCO is the only organization that does this, does that, does this and that. And so, in my  opinion, we cannot afford to let UNESCO disappear overnight, just because of a shortage of $25 million. Tonga’s  contribution to UNESCO is very small compared to what UNESCO offers to us. There was a climate change crisis in  New Zealand and Japan in past years, and my country coordinated collection of donations with schoolchildren and I am  sure that we will be able to coordinate a similar activity to help out UNESCO. It may be small but I am sure that UNESCO  will treasure that small amount. I have every confidence that the proposals of the Director-General are the best for the  Organization during this difficult time and would like to reassure the Director-General of my country’s cooperation at all  times. Like my brother from the Bahamas, I too will be appealing to the Pacific Member States in my region, 15 of them  in the Pacific subregion, for their full cooperation and reaffirmation of their support for UNESCO. And I really feel like  standing up and holding hands with my neighbour on the right and left to applaud UNESCO and to reaffirm our solidarity  and unity for the work of UNESCO and for its beneficiaries. Thank you, Madam President.
117. The President:   Thank you very much. I am now giving the floor to the Democratic Republic of the Congo.
118. République démocratique du Congo :   Merci beaucoup, Madame la Présidente. La République démocratique du Congo se rallie aux pays qui l’ont  précédée et qui ont appuyé le projet de résolution relatif à la situation financière que notre Organisation traverse à la  suite des mesures de rétorsion prises à son endroit. Nous nous associons aux déclarations du Président de notre  Groupe, formulées un peu plus tôt dans la soirée. Madame la Directrice générale, selon l’adage, « c’est dans les  moments difficiles que l’on reconnaît les vrais amis ». Mon pays est avec vous, et vous le savez. S’agissant du respect  de ses obligations vis-à-vis de l’UNESCO, mon pays a pu faire un effort pour apurer ses arriérés de paiement. À ce jour,  sauf avis contraire du service de comptabilité, mon pays dispose d’une réserve pour 2012 et a donc déjà versé une  avance à ce titre. Édifié sur la situation actuelle, mon pays n’y est pas indifférent et mettra tout en œuvre pour contribuer  à alléger le fardeau financier de l’Organisation. Pour terminer, nous appuyons les paragraphes 4 et 7 du projet de  résolution que vous nous proposez. Je vous remercie.
119. The President:   Thank you very much, Your Excellency. And, finally, I would like to give the floor to Niger.
120. Niger :   Merci, Madame la Présidente. Prendre la parole parmi les derniers devant cette auguste Assemblée constitue  bien évidemment un redoutable privilège, mais qu’importe. Nous tenterons malgré tout de relever le défi. Avec votre  permission, je voudrais donc commencer mon allocution par une image sportive. Hier soir, nous sommes sortis groggy  mais pas K.O. C’est une manière de vous dire, Madame la Directrice générale, combien nous apprécions votre courage  mais aussi et surtout vos qualités en matière de communication. Vous avez su communiquer pour montrer avec quelle  énergie vous menez la réforme et vous avez montré votre courage pour la faire accepter. Ce sont des choses, disons-le  en toute franchise, que nous admirons. Il faut avancer en se souvenant. Il y a quelques mois, dans notre intervention  devant le Conseil exécutif, que nous quittons, nous vous avons assurée, Madame la Directrice générale, de notre appui.  Eh bien, cet appui demeure. Il demeure parce que pour le Niger, l’UNESCO est un étendard et, comme tous les  étendards, il mérite d’être défendu avec énergie, détermination et intelligence. Une intelligence qui demeure l’emblème  de notre Institution. Nous savons que nous sommes les plus vulnérables et, de ce fait, il faut encore dire, haut et fort,  que nous serons les fantassins de l’UNESCO. J’ajouterai que le mariage des esprits est plus fort et plus beau que celui  des corps et encore davantage que celui des sous, qui constituent aujourd’hui, à l’évidence, le nœud du problème. Aussi,  Madame la Directrice générale, soyez assurée que le Niger, qui bénéficie et bénéficiera sans aucun doute des  programmes de l’UNESCO et, notamment, de certaines stratégies qui nous concernent au quotidien, soutient  vigoureusement la résolution proposée. Nous ferons très clairement passer le message à nos autorités – solidarité,  cohérence et éthique obligent. Merci d’avoir eu la patience de nous écouter en cette si longue fin de soirée.
121. The President:   Thank you very much, Your Excellency. We have not finished this evening yet. We have listened very carefully  to 38 speakers and, dear colleagues, I really believe I can say that there is overwhelming support for the Director- General’s proposal. I believe therefore that we can proceed to adopt this entire resolution by consensus. However,  before we do so, I must note that the only point of minority disagreement seems to be paragraph 4, which Canada has  proposed be deleted. Can I ask if there is any Member State which supports Canada’s proposal? I see none. I give the  floor to Portugal. But is it about deleting or not deleting the paragraph? We are now talking only about this paragraph,  please.
122. Portugal:   Yes, I know, Madam President. What I will try to do now is to avoid the vote. We have listened very carefully to  what our Director-General told us at the beginning of this discussion. We are sensitive to the appeal that she has made  to us. And we understand that the only remaining difficulty in approving this draft resolution is paragraph 4. We have  conducted consultations with some countries, some delegations, and I think that we are in a position to offer a  compromise solution to this paragraph 4. That would entail an amendment which would avoid this vote and to which  these concerned States have given their agreement. So I would like to ask if we should, if I should, go ahead with this  compromise proposal.
123.  The President:   Yes, please do, Your Excellency. We would like to hear it very much. Thank you very much.
124. Portugal:   Thank you. Well, it is not very difficult. We would simply insert a phrase in the middle of this paragraph. I would  rather read out the whole paragraph so that the Secretariat can note it. I will read it slowly. So, paragraph 4: “Decides, in  the event that there may be resources available under the incentive scheme by the end of 2011, to invite each Member  State to postpone, on a voluntary basis, the return of funds due to them in accordance with 35 C/Resolution …”, and the  rest remains as it is.
125. The President:   Thank you very much, Your Excellency. Of course, it is a different meaning here. I would like to give the floor to  the Legal Adviser. What would that mean in practice? I mean, “on a voluntary basis”. Some will say yes, some will say  no.
126. Ms Vicien Milburn (Legal Adviser):   Thank you, Madam President. My view is that this is really a matter for interpretation by the Member States. I  think that paragraph 4, as it is now, indicates that if there are resources available, the decision of the General  Conference would be mandatory and would automatically postpone the implementation of the resolution, and then there  would be an obligation to make the resources available to the Organization. Under the proposal, as I have just heard it,
440  each Member State would be invited to postpone the implementation of the resolution on a voluntary basis, that is to say,  there would not be a mandatory order, a decision by the Conference, to do so, but of course, I think that it is for each  Member State to decide. Thank you, Madam.
127. The President:   Thank you very much. I would like to give the floor to the Director-General.
128. The Director-General:   Madam President, while I appreciate the effort made by Portugal, let me mention that this proposal was  discussed during our consultation process and, to my knowledge, it did not meet with the predominant majority of those  who participated in the consultations. On one side, it puts the Member States in a different position. On the other side, of  course, from my perspective, it does not use this tool which we have currently in the Organization which is very modest, I  would say, between $1 and $3 million, in order to help with our imminent cash-flow problems. As I explained in my  intervention, I am not asking you for any more contributions in proposing to take a decision on this particular issue in the  year 2013. I am not asking you to do anything more that already exists in the Organization. What I am asking you is,  please, not to take away what we have here and what you have contributed to the Organization, even though you may  have the right to take it right now. I would ask you to do it in two years’ time. So, of course, it is up to you, Member  States, to take a decision on this particular issue. I just wanted to mention the fact that during the consultation, my  impression was that the predominant majority of those participating were not in favour of this particular proposal. Thank  you, Madam President.
129. The President:   Thank you very much. I give the floor to Saint Lucia.
130. Saint Lucia:   Thank you, Madam President. I would like to thank Portugal for this effort to find a compromise, but you see the  problem is that paragraph 7 is voluntary. So we do not know who is going to pay and when they are going to pay. Now,  paragraph 4 was going to allow us – with a very little sum, we have heard that it is only between $1 and $3 million – just  to deal with emergencies. We have heard that we have a cash-flow problem, and we have just a few weeks. If we adopt  the compromise, it means that we are going to wait for each Member State to decide and I am afraid the sense of  urgency is not addressed by this compromise. I really urge the Member States to make an effort here. After all the  speeches, after everything we have heard, I mean we are just speaking about $1 to $3 million. I would like really  everyone to accept it and us to adopt it by consensus. Thank you.
131. The President:   I give the floor to France.
132. France :   Merci, Madame la Présidente. Je voudrais dire tout l’appui de la délégation française à la déclaration qui vient  d’être prononcée par la Directrice générale. Je crois, en effet, que les circonstances sont exceptionnelles et que nous  devons en prendre la mesure. J’ai eu l’occasion de le rappeler à cette tribune : la France est très attachée au système  d’incitation au paiement rapide mais la formulation qui nous est proposée prend en compte, justement, cet attachement.  Ce n’est pas, j’insiste, le système d’incitation que nous remettons en cause en prenant cette décision. C’est uniquement  le fait de différer le paiement, le bénéfice qui pourrait résulter d’un paiement rapide des contributions. Je crois que la  vertu consiste parfois à s’adapter aux circonstances et que nous devons consentir un effort en ce sens. Mon pays est  l’un des principaux bénéficiaires de ce système, je le répète à nouveau. Pour nous, cette décision n’est pas facile à  prendre mais elle nous est imposée par les circonstances. Nous n’avons pas d’autre choix. Nous sommes face à une  situation d’urgence et il faut que nous en prenions toute la mesure. La vertu consiste aussi, parfois, à changer ses  positions. Merci.
133. The President:   Thank you very much. I would like to ask you again, listening to all my colleagues, who would be supporting  Canada in this issue. Israel? Canada.
134. Canada :   Madame la Présidente, êtes-vous en train de faire un appel au vote ? En interrogeant ainsi, individuellement, les  pays, selon moi, c’est comme si vous faisiez un appel au vote.
135. The President:   As I see it now, if I do not see more than two countries not supporting paragraph 4, I would like to ask who is  voting for and who is voting against. So, first, who is voting to adopt this resolution, with paragraph 4? Thank you very  much. We need a simple majority here. Who is against? One. Two. Three. Three against. Abstentions? One. Thank you  very much. The amendment is rejected. Now, ladies and gentlemen, according to the result of the vote, I take it that you  wish to adopt the resolution contained in document 36 C/37 Add.2 Rev.2. It is so decided.
136. The President:   Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. Now I would like to continue with the adoption of the Appropriation  Resolution for 2012-2013. I would like to ask Ms Cummins, the Co-Chairperson of the Administrative Commission, to  present the proposal. The floor is yours.
137. Ms Cummins (Barbados) (Co-Chairperson of the joint meeting of commissions):   Really and truly you have dealt with the most difficult issues before you. My presentation of the examination by  the joint meeting of item 4.3, the adoption of the Appropriation Resolution for 2012-2013, will be very short. The joint  meeting considered the revised draft Appropriation Resolution for 2012-2013 in the light of its decision on documents 36  C/DR.46 and 36 C/6 Addendum. Since the modifications did not affect the approved provisional budget ceiling of $653  million, the joint meeting adopted the revised Appropriation Resolution for 2012-2013 as a whole without debate. And I  am therefore pleased to submit to you the recommendation of the joint meeting contained in document 36 C/46 for  approval. Thank you for your attention.
138. The President:    Thank you very much, Ms Cummins. So now you have the document in front of you, 36 C/46. Are there any  comments? I see none. May I take it that the General Conference takes note of the report of the Chairperson of the  Administrative Commission and adopts the Appropriation Resolution for 2012-2013 contained in document 36 C/46? It is  so decided.  Closure of the 36th session of the General Conference  Clôture de la 36e session de la Conférence générale  Clausura de la 36ª reunión de la Conferencia General  Закрытие 36-й сессии Генеральной конференции   والثالثين للمؤتمر العام السادسةاختتام الدورة    大会第三十六届会议闭幕
139. The President:   Ladies and gentlemen, in the absence of any other business, we may proceed with the closure of the session.  The Director-General, please.
140.1 The Director-General:   Thank you very much, Madam President. Excellencies, ladies and gentlemen, on 2 November, the President of  Indonesia, Dr. Susilo Bambang Yudhoyono, said, outside the walls of this building: “We see the onset of a new world, a  world in an uneasy process of rebirth”. The President called on all States to look beyond the politics of division, beyond  us and them, towards what he called a new “we”. This eloquent appeal for unity captures, in my view, the spirit of the
36th session of the General Conference. As we close this session, I thank all Member States for their commitment and  dedication. We all know that our mandate is ambitious. To succeed, we need every State to be fully engaged. The  participation of heads of State and government, from Indonesia, Bulgaria, Côte d’Ivoire, Gabon, Grenada, Benin, Kenya  and Palau provided strong impetus. This General Conference saw excellent innovations in the debate of the Leaders’  Forum and the Youth Forum. I wish to thank also the observers, the international organizations and the non- governmental organizations for nourishing our discussions. I see three conclusions arising from this General Conference,  ladies and gentlemen. The first concerns leadership. We have made a clear all, a call for UNESCO to assume greater  leadership across its whole mandate. This starts with education, with our work to support countries in reaching education  for all. Much progress has been achieved, but the world is not on track to reach our objectives. UNESCO must lead here  and we are leading. With leadership must come focus. We will continue to strengthen the education for all coordination  mechanisms and we will target the specific needs of countries. Leadership and focus will also guide our action in culture.  Culture must be integrated into development at the global level, and on the ground. We will lead support to Member  States in strengthening science, technology and innovation policies. We will help States manage social transformations  through human rights and democracy. Societies are more resilient when freedom of expression is vibrant, when  knowledge is accessible to all. These are core objectives. I thank States for their strong support for the global priorities  Africa and gender equality, which I am determined to take forward.
140.2 A second conclusion concerns innovation. UNESCO must tackle new issues in new ways with new partners.  Our roadmap for Rio+20 embodies this innovation. Sustainability cannot rely on green economies alone. We need to  build greener societies. I will bring to Rio a roadmap for sustainable development that makes the most of the  transformative power of education, the sciences, culture and communication. The blueprint for ocean and coastal  sustainability we launched on 1 November exemplifies our contribution. But our green societies, our green future must  also be blue. The General Conference saw innovative launches in the sciences, in communication, in education and in  culture, many of these undertaken with private sector partners. I thank States for their support to my commitment to  develop partnerships with the private sector. Such partnerships are vital for innovative international action to tackle global
442  challenges. I see the Broadband Commission for Digital Development as a model of innovation. For all these, ladies and  gentlemen, we need a stronger UNESCO. This is the third conclusion.
140.3 I will keep up the pace of change and build on the first results of reform. Our mandate is ambitious, and so must  be our action. I know that expectations are high and I am determined we must meet them. This means all of us, Member  States, our staff at Headquarters and in the field. And in these uncertain times, there is a call for a better UNESCO.   (The Director-General continues in French)
140.4 Mesdames et Messieurs, l’UNESCO vit aujourd’hui un moment critique de son histoire. Nous sommes à la  croisée des chemins. Nos successeurs diront si ce moment a servi de déclencheur positif pour l’UNESCO, ou pas. C’est  un test pour notre Organisation. L’UNESCO doit montrer sa capacité à prendre des mesures radicales. À terme, elle en  sortira plus forte et plus respectée, j’en suis convaincue. Il y a quelques semaines, nous avons déjà revu notre budget en  passant à une croissance nominale zéro. J’avais souligné qu’une réduction de cette ampleur aurait un impact sur la  nature et l’amplitude de nos programmes. À cela s'ajoute une perte de 22 % et la suppression des fonds de notre plus  important contributeur. Aucune organisation ne peut sortir indemne d’un tel effort. Il va falloir faire des choix. Des choix  difficiles. En chinois, cette situation se nomme « Wei Ji » – corrigez-moi, Madame l’Ambassadeur, si je ne le prononce  pas correctement. C’est une situation qui comporte à la fois un risque (Wei) et une opportunité (Ji). Les risques, nous les  connaissons. Selon moi, le risque le plus dangereux est celui de la division. Le devoir nous commande d’être à la  hauteur de la situation, d’être responsables et de coopérer. Mais la situation nous offre aussi l'occasion d’accélérer la  réforme de façon radicale, de réduire encore nos frais administratifs, de hiérarchiser nos activités, de mieux répondre  aux attentes des États membres. Nous devons nous y atteler ensemble. Entre le 25 octobre et aujourd’hui, j’ai tenu plus  de 107 entretiens bilatéraux. J’ai écouté vos préoccupations, vos attentes, votre soutien, vos critiques. J’ai entendu  l’immense attente des peuples à l'égard de l’UNESCO. Et je compte poursuivre ce dialogue. Nous avons mis en place  plusieurs nouveaux outils pour resserrer nos liens et nous poursuivrons dans cette direction. Notre projet de schéma de  travail avec les commissions nationales est bien accueilli ; c’est une piste prometteuse et je m’en réjouis.
140.5 Dans ces moments difficiles, nous avons plus que jamais besoin de tous les membres de la famille UNESCO.  Aujourd’hui, j’en appelle solennellement à tous les dirigeants politiques. J’en appelle à l’Administration américaine, au  Congrès américain, au peuple américain : je leur demande de soutenir cette Organisation, de lui donner les moyens de  remplir son mandat, vital dans le monde d’aujourd’hui. J’en appelle à tous les acteurs de la société civile qui peuvent  nous soutenir. Ils sont des millions à travers le monde à vouloir apporter une contribution, petite ou grande. J’en appelle  à tous nos réseaux, aux intellectuels, aux clubs, dans les écoles, dans les universités, dans les laboratoires. J’en appelle  à tous ceux qui profitent tous les jours de l’action de l’UNESCO, à tous ceux qui comptent sur l’UNESCO pour protéger  leur culture, pour accéder à l’éducation. Ils croient en nous. J’en appelle à tous les professionnels, à tous les  responsables politiques qui bénéficient des conseils de nos experts, partout dans le monde. J’en appelle à tous les États  membres, à leur sens de la responsabilité et de l’unité pour surmonter nos difficultés. Et je me dois de remercier  aujourd’hui toutes les délégations qui ont exprimé leur confiance en moi, en l’équipe dirigeante et en l’Organisation. Je  suis très touchée par cette confiance. Je ressens un immense sentiment de responsabilité aujourd’hui devant vous. Je  remercie également tous ceux qui se sont déjà engagés en faveur de l'Organisation, soit par une contribution financière  importante, comme le Gabon, que je remercie vivement, soit par un don ou un soutien plus modeste mais avec un sens  immense de la responsabilité politique, comme le distingué représentant des Tonga. Ce soutien est, à mon avis,  important et témoigne d'un sens aigu de la responsabilité dans les circonstances actuelles.
140.6 Je me tourne, à présent, vers vous, Madame la Présidente de la Conférence générale. Tout au long de cette  session, vous avez su faire valoir le point de vue de chacun, dans une atmosphère de respect mutuel. C’est le meilleur  climat que l’on pouvait imaginer pour aborder les questions difficiles qui nous préoccupent. En signe de notre  reconnaissance, permettez que je vous remette ce maillet, avec lequel vous pouvez clôturer notre Conférence générale.  Merci, Madame la Présidente.  La Directrice générale remet un marteau de séance à la Présidente  (Applaudissements)
141.1 The President:    Thank you very much. I will use it at the very end. But you see, when you have a piano on the stage, something  is going to happen.
141.2  Dear friends, the General Conference has established two important international days: World Radio Day and  International Jazz Day, each of them celebrating the art of listening, inspiration, connectivity, free flow of information and  free flow of emotion. I remember very well in my youth listening to Radio Free Europe or Radio Luxembourg, or the BBC  under the cover of my pillows, like millions of people behind the Iron Curtain, denied their right to free information and  hungry for the news transmitted from the free world. And I remember the times as a young broadcaster, using this  medium for transmitting important messages, at times hidden between the spoken words to offer comfort and keep the  glimmer of hope alive in people’s hearts. The proclamation of World Radio Day proposed by Spain is an important  gesture and tool for free flow of information. The human quest for freedom often finds expression in music. As you may  know, upon the proposal of the United States of America, supported by 17 other Member States, including Hungary, the  General Conference proclaimed 30 April as International Jazz Day. Jazz is a liberating experience. It is no wonder that  as a gateway to personal freedom, jazz was perceived as a serious threat by totalitarian regimes. I remember again that  in many countries, jazz was simply banned or considered dangerous, because it is a tool for free flow of emotion. For  me, jazz embodies perfectly the synthesis of different cultures and traditions into a common language of humanity. It is  synonymous with the idea of rapprochement of cultures. Before I conclude my speech, I would like to ask my very dear
443  friend the celebrated jazz pianist, composer, musician, George Vukán, to come to the stage and refresh our souls with  the music that he is bringing to us. Ladies and gentlemen, George Vukán.  (Musical interlude)
142.1 The President:    Thank you very much. The maestro will come back. Madam Director-General, dear friends, Your Excellencies,  ladies and gentlemen, many of you may remember that in response to my official nomination to this post by the  Executive Board, my spontaneous reflections touched upon Sir Georg Solti, the great Hungarian-born conductor of the  twentieth century whose life and works the General Conference has decided to celebrate next year. Thank you for that.  He established the World Orchestra for Peace in 1995 to inspire leaders and politicians with a living example of  international cooperation. Talking in tune was my main aim throughout the incredible few weeks of our General  Conference, and talking with dignity to each other, even when our differences held sway, was my main preoccupation in  the turbulent moments.
142.2 Indeed the differences were at times pronounced in our opinions and visions, and the spirit of consensus was  difficult to bring to bear on some issues. We can have political differences, this is normal. For me, the question is how do  we handle them? I would still argue that we handle them through dialogue, through the art of cultured diplomacy, through  the art of listening in order to try not to misunderstand each other.
142.3 We need to give a real sense to the notion of dialogue. Dialogos is a Greek compound word widely  mistranslated and wrongly understood because of the confusion between duo and dia. It does not mean a conversation  between two people or two groups, but an acceptance by two participants or more that they will compare and contrast  their respective arguments to the very end. Dialogue is accordingly a perilous enterprise, for it implies a risk that either  participant may find his or her argument transformed and thus their very identity put to the test. Dialogue is not designed  to lead to a definite conclusion. It retains - even when this is not apparent - a latent conversational quality. And this  shines through in its written form. That keeps it alive.
142.4 You will agree with me that we have to renew our commitment to intercultural dialogue, keeping in our hearts  and minds verses of Jalal-ud-Din: “Half of me comes from here, half from everywhere, half of me comes from the pearls  of the sea, half from distant shores”. We people of the world are connected to each other globally and today our  interdependence is greater than ever. My dear friends, our big family has become bigger. We have acquired two new  Associate Members: Curaçao and Sint Maarten, a new Member, South Sudan, and the decision has been made to admit  another Member, Palestine, to this Organization. The new Members of our family have rich cultures, histories and  fascinating traditions, and they are facing formidable challenges in securing a peaceful future for their children. As with all  families the new Members enrich the diversity of UNESCO and compel us to seek ways to resolve the problems that  their societies currently face.
142.5 The ability to assist the fledging Members to build open, tolerant and stable societies will serve as a litmus test  for the relevance of UNESCO in the rapidly transforming world. We will all have to work in concert to successfully pass  this test. The price of failure is prohibitively high. We need to remain true and committed to the mission of UNESCO.  Advancing through the educational and cultural and scientific relations of the peoples of the world, the objectives of  international peace and of the common welfare of mankind to overcome the existing divisions and to ensure a better  future for our children. We should live out the idea of the culture of peace, for as Mahatma Gandhi has warned, if we  practise an eye for an eye and a tooth for a tooth, soon the whole world will be blind and toothless.
142.6 Ladies and gentlemen, the real voyage of discovery, Marcel Proust remarked, consists not in finding new land  but in seeing with new eyes. The highly engaging and dynamic Leaders’ Forum is a good example of an innovative  approach that enriched the work of the General Conference with bold ideas expressed directly by world leaders. These  ideas, especially as they pertain to a culture of peace and to sustainable development, must be reflected in the strategic  documents of UNESCO. I would like to congratulate the Secretariat, and especially the Office of the Director-General  and the Bureau of Strategic Planning, for such truly innovative elements of this General Conference.
142.7 The 36th session of the General Conference broke several records in a positive way. At its plenary meetings  and within the various commissions and committees, it considered 80 draft resolutions, working tirelessly to fulfil its role  as a policy-setter of UNESCO. The General Conference benefited from the high-level engagement of numerous heads of  State, presidents, prime ministers, ministers and special guests.
142.8 The General Conference also oversaw the election of the new Members of the Executive Board and members of  the various intergovernmental bodies. I congratulate the new members of these important organs of UNESCO, and wish  them success in carrying out their important duties.
142.9 Dear colleagues, we also need to remember that the strength of our Organization lies in the internal unity and  cohesion of its constituent parts. UNESCO was conceived from the very beginning as a tripartite body with a General  Conference, an Executive Board and a Secretariat working in harmony in pursuit of the Organization’s constitutional  mandate. The close collaboration among the three organs, based on a culture of mutual trust, respect and understanding  of each other’s roles and responsibilities, will be ever more important for the Organization in the trying times ahead. We  the Member States of UNESCO value greatly the dedicated work of the Secretariat towards achieving our noble mission,  and look forward to providing the necessary support and guidance. I strongly believe that we need to improve the  visibility of the vital work carried out within UNESCO’s bodies; we need to raise awareness about their important  functions and roles, through all available communication tools, including the Web and other information technologies.
142.10 As I promised earlier, I am here for you with an open heart, to listen to your comments, suggestions or criticisms  as attentively as ever, work with you through disagreements, mediate when necessary and seek universally acceptable  solutions. We indeed have much to accomplish together, as decreed by the General Conference. The close collaboration  expected between the Executive Board, the President of the General Conference and the Director-General in the follow- up to the Independent External Evaluation (IEE) of UNESCO is one good example of our future interaction.
142.11 Distinguished delegates, the efforts required to ensure the successful performance of the General Conference  are truly herculean. I have witnessed them during this period, behind the scenes, in the corridors and the offices of the  Secretariat. If you, the distinguished delegates, represent an orchestra of the nations of the world, the dedicated staff of  the Secretariat truly run the show, making sure that all the conditions are in place for us to produce harmony and avoid  cacophony in this hall.
142.12 I have special gratitude to express to the leadership of this Organization, first and foremost to my dear friend the  Director-General, wishing her all possible strength, success and wisdom and offering my humble support in the coming  journey of this Organization. I wish to salute as well the Deputy Director-General and the Assistant Directors-General.  This was an extremely demanding session that you have managed with exceptional skill and professional capacity.
142.13 It was a real pleasure for me to work closely with the Secretary and Deputy Secretary of the General  Conference, Michael Millward and Luis Salamanques. My big thank you goes to my new team, personal assistant Irakli  Khodeli and the secretary of the President’s office, Inés Mens.
142.14 We all acknowledge the dedicated work of the support personnel – the interpreters and translators who have  served with high competence and patience, as well as the printing departments, the security, the telephone and  information technology (IT) services, the janitorial staff, and the brilliant medical staff and doctors - all those who spent  countless hours making this house a pleasant and welcoming place for thousands of people.
142.15 Your Excellencies, ladies and gentlemen, as the 36th session of the General Conference comes to an end, a  new phase of our work is beginning, a phase that I consider most critical for all the organs of UNESCO. This is a  complex responsibility on which we will have to deliver together, in the spirit of unity and common purpose.
142.16 Let me quote a Hungarian poet, Attila József:  “I want to work. For it is battle enough  Having a past such as this to confess.  In the Danube’s waves past, present and future  Are all-embracing in a soft caress.  The great battle which our ancestors once fought  Resolves into peace through the memories,  And to settle at last our communal affairs  Remains our task and none too small it is.”
142.17 This poem is inspired by the river Danube, one of the largest rivers in Europe that connects diverse cultures and  peoples. As you all know, I see our global cultural space as a source of inspiration and not a burden. Like healthy roots  that support colossal trees and their branches, our cultural roots provide us with identities, with inspiration and with the  awareness of the richness of other cultures and traditions. I could not possibly demonstrate this message better than  through a simple tune by Béla Bartók: “An evening at the village,” and ask George Vukán to transform and enrich it by  the free spirit of jazz. Thank you.   (Musical interlude)
143. The President:   Ladies and gentlemen, while we are watching these beautiful pictures we will remember all the moments we  experienced together, thinking: all right, that was the moment, I remember. And I would like really to say what a General  Conference it was. Thank you very much for all your ideas, for sharing all your experiences, for being so honest. That  was a great honour for me. And now, using this beautiful new gavel, I would like to declare that the 36th session of the  General Conference of the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization is closed.  (Applause)  The meeting rose at 9.00 p.m.  La séance est levée à 21 h 00  Se levanta la sesión a las 21.00  Заседание закрывается в 21.00  مساهً  ٩,٠٠رفعت اسلسة يف الساعة     会议于 21 时结束