1.1 The President:   Your Excellencies, ladies and gentlemen, please take your seats. Good morning. I would like to declare the third  plenary meeting open. Today and tomorrow morning, we will devote ourselves to the Leaders’ Forum.
1.2 Ladies and gentlemen, Your Excellency Mr Alassane Ouattara, President of the Republic of Côte d’Ivoire, Your  Excellency Mr Ali Bongo Ondimba, President of the Republic of Gabon, Your Excellency Mr Pál Schmitt, President of the  Republic of Hungary, Your Excellency Mr Tillman Thomas, Prime Minister of Grenada, Your Excellency Mr Pascal Irénée  Koupaki, Prime Minister of the Republic of Benin, Your Excellency Mrs Aliyeva, First Lady of the Republic of Azerbaijan,  Madam Chair of the Executive Board of UNESCO, Madam Director-General of UNESCO, Excellencies, ladies and  gentlemen, distinguished delegates, dear friends, I would like to reiterate the expression of my heartfelt gratitude to the  Member States for having elected me as President of the General Conference. As people have heard me say before, it is  an immense honour for me, someone in whose life music is so instrumental, to be trusted with the mission of helping the  Members States to speak in tune. The great virtuoso musician Franz Liszt said that the principal task of a conductor is  not to put himself in evidence but to disappear behind his functions and, I would add, look for harmony. Those words  resonate harmoniously with the spirit of this room, which was built to host the concert of nations that decided to work  together in the awareness that since wars begin in the minds of men, it is in the minds of men that the defences of peace  must be constructed. Albert Einstein expressed the same idea when he stated: “Peace cannot be kept by force; it can  only be achieved by understanding.” It is a delight to start my mandate with such a major meeting. It is a high-level  meeting because we are graced with the presence of high-level personalities. It is a high-level meeting also because it  offers an opportunity to discuss fundamental issues, issues that send us back to the very reason why we have UNESCO  and even the United Nations in the first place.
1.3 Let us remember that the central objective of the United Nations – and UNESCO – was to institute a parliament  of humanity dedicated “to save succeeding generations from the scourge of war” and “to promote social progress and  better standards of life in larger freedom”. Sixty-six years on, a brief look at the state of the world reveals that for a large  part of human population, these objectives remain distant aspirations. Under our watch, armed conflicts continue to kill,  maim and displace millions of people, especially in poor countries. Conflicts are diverting scarce human and financial  resources from key areas such as healthcare and education to military spending, thereby reinforcing poverty,  undermining economic growth and stunting progress of nations according to all human development indicators. In these  trying economic times, the talk of budget and fiscal deficits dominates the airwaves. What we rarely, if at all, hear about,  and what the recent EFA Global Monitoring Report of UNESCO highlighted, is what I would call an acute ‘peace deficit’,  felt in countries big and small, affluent and poor, to the north and south. In 21 developing countries that spend more on  tanks than on primary education, there is a peace deficit. There is a peace deficit in the affluent world where military  spending dwarfs the resources available for development aid. It has been calculated that if rich countries were to stop  military spending for just six days, the savings would be enough to close the $16 billion education for all external  financing gap. Think of how many people such an act would pull from the grip of poverty, how many children would be  able to receive life-sustaining education! As you very well understand, a genuine peace is not to be found where poverty  keeps people in dire need of basic commodities, leaves them unable to fend for themselves and their families, and  creates fertile ground for the seeds of conflict to grow. This is the reason why for almost one billion people who will go to  sleep hungry tonight – most of them women and 98% living in developing countries – peace is illusory. For more than
600 million children in the developing world who live on less than a dollar a day, and for 200 million malnourished  children and their families, there is no meaningful peace to speak of. For almost 800 million people without basic literacy  skills – two thirds of them women, who are barred from a meaningful participation in social life and the realization of their  full human potential, peace is a fleeting concept. In other words, under the conditions of structural underdevelopment,  where basic elements of human security are missing, a culture of peace can hardly take hold.
1.4 To advance our peace agenda, therefore, we have to cultivate the myriad conditions that contribute to  sustainable development – human rights and freedoms, inclusive and tolerant societies, reconciliation and intercultural  dialogue. The promotion of this positive notion of ‘culture of peace,’ besides an aim in itself, is a powerful antidote against  violence, and as such, an expression of UNESCO’s fundamental mandate. In pursuing this mandate, UNESCO brings to  bear its uniquely multidisciplinary approach, which enables it to deal with complex issues in a holistic manner. This is the  real strength of the Organization, because the issues we have to tackle, such as conflicts and poverty, are  multidimensional social phenomena that are not amenable to simple solutions. It is this unique holistic, human-centred  approach to sustainable development and peace-building that UNESCO brings to the multilateral efforts in these areas.  Your Excellencies, Heads of State and Government, distinguished speakers today, your presence gives us a unique  opportunity to directly engage world leaders and decision-makers in our brainstorming efforts concerning one of the most  fundamental questions for UNESCO: what can the Organization do towards building a culture of peace and sustainable  development? We would be naïve to expect you to articulate clear-cut solutions to the world’s most pressing problems.  Instead, your willingness to share the insights from your own personal experiences of dealing with these issues as  leaders will certainly deepen our understanding of the obstacles to peace and sustainable development in different parts  of the world, and the ways to surmount them. Culture of peace rests on the idea that durable peace requires commitment
41  to building just, open and inclusive societies. Justice, freedom and equality are the shared values at the bedrock of the  peaceful global fellowship we must strive for.
1.5 And nowhere is the lack of justice and equality as pronounced as in the area of gender equality. The latest data  indicate that women continue to suffer from unequal access to education at all levels, with 39 million girls missing from  primary and secondary schools. Women are also inadequately represented in leadership positions, occupying only 19%  of seats in the houses of parliament worldwide. This is detrimental not just to women, but to entire societies that do not  profit from women’s proven potential to contribute significantly to reconciliation, peace-building and social and economic  development. UNESCO’s response is to empower women around the world – notably through education, the most  effective lever to spread values and skills. Empowering women is one telling example among others of how UNESCO  contributes to a culture of peace and to sustainable development.
1.6 Your Excellencies, ladies and gentlemen, Ministers, delegates, this is a special day today because in India this  is the day that we call the Festival of Lights. It is Diwali. This evening billions of lamps will be lit to welcome the New Year,  to pray for peace and prosperity and to celebrate the victory of good over evil. Let us light a lamp at UNESCO, to banish  the darkness of illiteracy and poverty, and to confront the forces of hatred and intolerance. I am confident that under the  roof of UNESCO, the encounter and open exchange of ideas among world leaders can significantly advance this aim. Let  us all take advantage of the unique space of dialogue offered by the Leaders’ Forum. Thank you for coming.
1.7 I shall now give the floor to Her Excellency Ms Eleonora Mitrofanova, Chair of the Executive Board. Please,  Madam, the floor is yours.
2.1 Chair of the Executive Board (Ms Mitrofanova):   Your Excellencies, distinguished high-level guests, Madam President of the General Conference of UNESCO,  Madame Director-General of UNESCO, dear friends and colleagues, let me start by insisting on the timeliness of this  conference, the Leaders’ Forum. Like all the other branches of the United Nations family, UNESCO was created with  peace in mind, and with a view to building peace in the minds of people. In this endeavour, UNESCO’s identity, its  special feature, lies in the ardent promotion of international cooperation through actions in the fields of education, the  sciences, culture and communication and information. Underlying these different avenues is a common thread, the  conviction that dialogue should be encouraged everywhere and at all levels. In seeking peace and cooperation, we foster  dialogue between cultures, between societies and between governments – starting with the Member States, of which you  are the leaders, and which are the shareholders of the Organization. The Leaders’ Forum is an opportunity for you, who  represent the Member States at the highest levels, to engage in dialogue directly and to take advantage of UNESCO’s  functions as a catalyst of intellectual cooperation and an instrument of your will to rethink the present and prepare the  future in a spirit of ‘intellectual and moral solidarity’.
2.2 As I mentioned earlier, this meeting is timely. It is held at a turning point in the life of our Organization because  for the past two years the Organization has been very active in reforming itself. This effort has mobilized the energy of  the Organization as a whole throughout the biennium, so that we can better perform and better respond to our changing  environment, so that we can better meet the needs and expectations of the Member States. I had the honour to chair the  Executive Board in one of those exciting periods when an institution questions itself, reviews its proceedings and paves  the way forward. I am confident that in attending the Leaders’ Forum, you will find that you are contributing to the work of  a UNESCO that is rejuvenated and more capable of fulfilling the ideals of its Constitution, which remains relevant more  than six decades after its creation. I wish to remind all of you leaders present today, Presidents, Prime Ministers,  Ministers or Secretaries of State, that, in renewing itself, UNESCO is for you to use as a platform to exchange views and  explore the new ideas and perspectives that will infuse the actions of decision-makers tomorrow. UNESCO was created  to help Member States address problems that they cannot apprehend, let alone solve, individually. This is especially true  today, in an era when we have come to realize that we live in a world of multiple challenges and stress where peaceful  relations among peoples and nations are threatened by complex and multiple crises. This impinges on hopes for global  peace, prosperity and sustainable development.
2.3 Of course, we are not starting from scratch – many of the current challenges are being targeted by strong and  powerful international agendas – the Millennium Development Goals, Agenda 21 or the education for all goals. But what  is needed today is a comprehensive understanding of the world situation and new approaches to address peace and  development holistically. How can UNESCO contribute to building a culture of peace and to sustainable development?  This is the holistic question you are going to debate – it is a strategic one on many grounds. We just need to look around  us to realize how dearly we need a culture of peace and non-violence. Only too recently, dramatic and violent acts by  fanatics have made dozens of innocent civilian victims in the Arab region, in Africa and in Europe. In too many places,  violence remains a daily plague, especially in relation to gang and drug violence, as is experienced by various  communities in Latin America and the Caribbean. Violence is also tangible in the social exclusion of marginalized groups  which too often results in violence against women, who remain the largest disenfranchised group of humanity as a whole.
2.4 All over the world, societies are in turmoil. Young people, who are the future of nations, have decided to  confront the inertia of their societies. We think of the Arab uprisings, which are still having a tremendous impact in the  region. But let us not forget that the phenomenon of youth taking to the streets is worldwide. On every continent, young  women and men are demonstrating their commitment to social change. What we must heed is that all of them are  heralding such universal principles as democratic participation, fairness, social as well as economic empowerment,  access to quality education and shared prosperity. These “youth-quakes” could probably not have been anticipated as  such. What could have been anticipated, though, is that vehement social eruptions would be the response to the impacts  of the global financial and economic crisis in the countries which have been struck hard, notably in so many exposed  industrialized countries. And, as for the developing and least advanced countries, the crisis does not date from yesterday.
42  The endemic crisis of poverty is still affecting the bottom billion. These people, children and adults, women and men, live  in hunger; they do not have access to the social, health and educational services that could empower them. They are  barred from attaining true human development. All those are signs that we are all in the same boat. All those are signs  that we need to rethink development along more rational lines, aiming at social and economic sustainability but also at  environmental sustainability. The planet is going through a crisis that must be met with a resolute commitment to  sustainable development. Climate change, environmental degradation, biodiversity losses and pollution – these global  environmental crises are mainly human-made. In other words, humanity can and must do something. Humanity must act  in the right direction. We need a green economy and green societies underpinned by a vision for peaceful sustainable  development that makes the most of the transformative power of education, the sciences, culture and communication  and information.
2.5 Challenges must be addressed by us, country by country, but above all collectively. The Leaders’ Forum is an  opportunity to contribute to that responsibility. As Heads of State or Government, Ministers and senior decision-makers,  you are going to debate how best to achieve a culture of peace and sustainable development through the instruments of  soft power represented in the fields of competence of UNESCO. As your exchanges can and may shape new models  and impact pressing international issues, the results and recommendations of your discussions will be transmitted to the  General Conference to inspire the strategies of the Organization in the coming years. This will have been your first – but  not, I believe, the last – contribution to a culture of peace and sustainable development on multilateral levels. Thank you  very much.
3. The President:   Thank you very much, Madam Chair. I now give the floor to the Director-General. The floor is yours, Madam.
4.1 La Directrice générale :  Messieurs les Chefs d’État, Mesdames et Messieurs les Ministres, Madame la Présidente de la Conférence  générale, Madame la Présidente du Conseil exécutif, Excellences, Mesdames et Messieurs, ce Forum des dirigeants est  l’une des innovations importantes de cette session de la Conférence générale. J’y vois l’opportunité d’ouvrir un débat  direct, franc et sans concession sur les moyens, pour l’UNESCO, de contribuer à la culture de la paix et au  développement durable.
4.2 Nous l’avons dit hier : nous vivons une période de grands changements. C’est une époque de contrastes, où  l’extrême violence côtoie les plus grands espoirs. Vous avez certainement vu les images de cette petite fille, ce bébé de
16 jours, né prématuré, qui vient d’être miraculeusement sauvé des décombres de la ville d’Ergis, dévastée par le  séisme en Turquie. Cette petite fille, Azra Karaduman, a été délivrée dans une vive émotion, sous une pluie  d’applaudissements. La ville s’est suspendue un instant, dans l’épreuve, pour saluer les sauveteurs. Et nous, qui peut- être n’avons jamais entendu parler de la ville d’Ergis, nous ressentons un sentiment puissant d’empathie, qui est le cœur  de l’humanisme. Nous sommes tous liés, nous faisons tous partie de la même communauté humaine. Pour répondre  efficacement à nos défis mondiaux, nous devons renforcer nos liens et rester soudés. Nous avons la Conférence  Rio + 20, l’année prochaine. Nous approchons de l’échéance de 2015 pour les Objectifs du Millénaire pour le  développement et les objectifs de l’Éducation pour tous. Nous sommes à un tournant, où des décisions peuvent être  prises qui vont déterminer l’avenir de cette petite fille. Ce Forum doit y contribuer.  (La Directrice générale poursuit en anglais)
4.3 Excellencies, ladies and gentlemen, the vision of our 1945 Constitution is more relevant than ever. But it is not  enough to simply assert the relevance of UNESCO’s message. We must deliver on it in a world that is changing quickly.  We face today new challenges of unparalleled complexity. These call on us to bridge the gaps in global governance, to  support the public goods that are falling through the cracks of globalization. We will not stop repeating UNESCO’s  Constitution that declares that if wars start in the minds of men and women, then it is in the minds of men and women  that the defences of peace must be built. We must reinvent how we work towards these goals. We must renew our  commitment to action in education, culture, the sciences and communication, to lay the foundations for sustainable  development and a culture of peace. This starts with history. History shows the dangers of intolerance, racism and hatred.  History is one of the bridges we must build between people and cultures. The launch of the International Competition for  a Permanent Memorial to Honour the Victims of Slavery and the Transatlantic Slave Trade, on 23 August 2011, is a clear  symbol of a culture of peace and a strong contribution to the International Year for People of African Descent.
4.4 In times of uncertainty, we must build on such initiatives; we must stay true to a moral compass. In times of  complexity, we must stand and act together. States cannot tackle global challenges alone. UNESCO acts for education,  for freedom of expression, for gender equality, for cultural heritage and diversity, for the sciences. We do all of this to  strengthen the ties of solidarity between people and to clear the ground for sustainable development. This is our  message. This is our mandate. The world has perhaps never needed strong ideas as much as it does today -- ideas that  mobilize societies, that bring us together. Over the next day, it may be worth recalling the words of a great humanist,  French author Victor Hugo, who said, “An invasion of armies can be resisted, but not an idea whose time has come.”  Thank you for your attention.
5. The President:   Thank you very much, Madam Director-General. Ladies and gentlemen, distinguished guests, I now have the  special pleasure of introducing our first keynote speaker who is my own President – so, the President’s President, His  Excellency Mr Pál Schmitt, President of the Republic of Hungary, who is in many respects a unique leader. He was a  champion fencer, who won gold medals at the Olympic Games. He also won team and individual world championships  before ending his active sporting career and starting to fence in the world of politics. He was equally successful in this  arena. He became General Secretary and later President of the Hungarian Olympic Committee, and held a high position
43  in the International Olympic Committee (IOC). Following the end of communism in Hungary, he became a diplomat,  serving as Hungary’s Ambassador to Spain and Switzerland. Upon his return, he entered national and European politics.  He was elected Member of the European Parliament, and became Vice-President of the Parliamentary Committee on  Culture and Education. He was also the Speaker of the National Assembly of Hungary, before being elected President of  the Republic of Hungary in August last year. We are honoured and humbled by your presence, your Excellency. The  floor is yours.
6.1 Mr Schmitt (President of Hungary):   Madam President of the General Conference, Madam Chair of the Executive Board, Madam Director-General,  Excellencies, fellow Presidents, Prime Ministers, distinguished delegates, ladies and gentlemen, please allow me to say  some sentences, at the beginning of my speech, in the Hungarian language. I want you to enjoy the beautiful music of  that language.
(6.2) Please, let me begin with some personal remarks: it is a great honour for me to represent Hungary at this Leaders’  Forum as it is the first time that the President of Hungary pays tribute to UNESCO in more than sixty years of its membership.  Furthermore, this event is very remarkable because the Hungarian Ambassador to UNESCO Ms Katalin Bogyay was elected  yesterday as President of the General Conference for the next two years. Madam President, dear Katalin, I wish you every  success in your work.  (The speaker continues in English)
6.3 While preparing for this day, I came across a thought from Albert Einstein, which goes like this: “Life is like  riding a bicycle. To keep your balance, you must keep moving.” You might ask, what is it that captivated me, beside the  humour and the well-chosen analogy? It was the link between balance and movement. It is because the calm, the  peacefulness of the state of balance is never the result of passivity. Someone who is passive is not in a state of balance,  but instead – if you like – has fallen off the bicycle, has fallen out of life. It is possible that this person was never on the  bike. Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that in the end, the mission of UNESCO and this forum are also about balance. A  balance between the different forces is a precondition for life, be it individual or the life of a community. This balance will  be capable of establishing the harmony that is the requirement for a healthy, happy and peaceful life. Because  opportunities, capabilities and sometimes human attitudes and skills prove to be too little to secure a balance, we have to  work with a common will to achieve it. UNESCO is also about this common will to create balance.
6.4 Physical and spiritual strength, and inner peace, are required for achieving a complete life. Therefore,  everything that we can and should talk about is concentrated around this balance. I would like to expand the notion of  sustainable development to society, to human relations. Because when it comes to these, we can be just as wasteful and  ill-prepared as we unfortunately tend to be with production, energy and the environment. Sustainable development itself  is one of the cardinal states of life-balance that we should be achieving together. However, man is a creature who tends  to act to the detriment of his own destiny. Even if he is aware of the conditions: the requirements of peace, spiritual and  physical health, perseverance and vision. Despite knowing the role of education, culture, arts, science and sport in  achieving a complete life, only with conscious collaboration is man capable of ensuring that they fulfil their role.
6.5 I would like to concentrate primarily, with your kind understanding and permission, on sport, since even Einstein  found essence in movement. As a former Olympic athlete and sports executive, I may say that this topic is also  especially close to my heart. It is common knowledge that people actively engaged in sport are more resistant to physical  ailments and lead a much more relaxed life. However the role of sport and a good physical condition in creating balance  is not only evident in terms of an individual’s life. Let us not forget that sport is also about play. Therefore it is a natural  medium in the dialogue between nations, in conflict management and in overcoming discrimination. It is a ‘language’  similar to science and art, but is even more direct and simple than they are. Sport is profoundly democratic. Its message:  Nobody is an enemy. Anyone actively engaged in sports will grow up in an environment which would categorically cast  out anyone who does not respect his or her opponent. As the Olympic Charter stipulates, “Any form of discrimination with  regard to a country or a person on grounds of race, religion, politics, gender or otherwise is incompatible with belonging  to the Olympic Movement” (6th Fundamental Principle of Olympism, Olympic Charter). Indeed, dear friends, the  regulated character of sport, its basic values, are capable of educating people, getting them back on track, even lifting  them out of their difficulties, by giving them a sense of purpose. The focus has slightly changed. My commitment to sport  has not, however. One of my undertakings as President is to encourage people to practise sport on a more regular basis  and to promote ‘sports for all’ hand in hand with elite sport. I am convinced that the more people are engaged in sporting  activities the more peaceful our society becomes, because through sport people learn a number of social values such as  respecting the rules and the referee, regarding the adversary as a rival and not an enemy, accepting cultural differences  and learning tolerance and solidarity.
6.6 This is why I am happy that in my country, the Hungarian Government has designated sport as a strategic  sector. One of its most prominent endeavours is that, even in these troubled financial times that Europe and the world  are experiencing, the government has significantly increased the funds allocated to sport and is committed to increasing  them further. Apart from this, it is taking steps such as the introduction of daily physical education classes in public  education; making grants available for ‘sport for all’ movements; tax benefits for sports purposes; a sport-friendly  legislative environment; opening of sports facilities for community purposes; improved financial remuneration of physical
44  education teachers and trainers; more airtime for sports in public service media; and a personal example set by  politicians, even the President himself, Members of Parliament and other government officials. If you will permit me, I  would like at this point to call to mind an outstanding Hungarian, indeed the “greatest Hungarian”, Count István  Széchenyi, a prominent thinker, politician and statesman of the nineteenth century. He once, very objectively, said the  following, “Two things are required for us to remain healthy: a touch of philosophy and an erect, relaxed posture.” This  substantive statement well expresses what I wanted to talk about, namely the fact that “an erect, relaxed posture”,  meaning good physical condition, is also a fundamental trait of a thinking person. Our future depends on the state that  tomorrow’s challenges find us in.
6.7 Distinguished ladies and gentlemen, before you can accuse me of excessive bias, let me shortly mention the  other philosophy mentioned by Széchenyi, which is science, actually. It was he who funded and created the Hungarian  Academy of Science. Budapest is currently preparing for the Fifth World Science Forum, to be held in November this  year. We Hungarians consider it a huge success that we have been able to create this series of events dubbed the  “Davos of Science” in collaboration with your magnificent Organization, UNESCO. This is an opportunity for dialogue,  where it is not only the specific details of scientific disciplines that are discussed, but where the dependence on research  of our lives can also be made evident. We can address science from the perspective of everyday life, from the standpoint  of the most pressing global problems. I am very hopeful that the title of the meeting, “The Changing Landscape of  Science: Challenges and Opportunities”, will allow us to gather a great deal of good experience. We look forward to a  meeting where frequently mentioned and repeated expressions will gain in content, and we can come to agreements that  will then yield tangible results.
6.8 Another important achievement of UNESCO is that it not only has important themes but also best practices.  This year, the cultural diversity of the Franz Liszt Year was the best proof to me of how the same thought can be  presented in so many wonderful ways, all of them best suited to individual national characters. I sincerely hope that our  cooperation and efforts will bring success and results in all other areas.
6.9 Let me thank you, Madam Director-General, for your invitation and I am very much looking forward to sharing  other experiences and other models of peace-building presented by my honourable fellow Presidents from different parts  of the world. Thank you for honouring me with your attention.
7. The President:   Thank you, Your Excellency. We will now have the pleasure of hearing His Excellency Mr Ali Bongo Ondimba,  President of Gabon. He is another keen sportsman, I understand. He is a passionate football fan, who also competed for  Gabon in the discus during his youth. President Bongo Ondimba studied law at the Sorbonne, not too far from here. After  obtaining a doctorate in public law, he entered the Presidential Cabinet and became High Personal Representative of the  President of the Republic. He was later appointed Minister of Foreign Affairs and Cooperation. Mr Bongo Ondimba was  then elected to the National Assembly, where he served as Deputy of Bongoville before being appointed Minister of  Defence. He served in this post for ten years, following which he was elected President of the Republic of Gabon in  August 2009. President Bongo Ondimba, it is a pleasure to welcome you. The floor is yours.
8.1 M. Bongo Ondimba (Président du Gabon) :   Messieurs les Chefs d’État, Monsieur le Premier Ministre, Madame la Directrice générale, Madame la  Présidente de la Conférence générale, Madame la Présidente du Conseil exécutif, chers collègues, Mesdames et  Messieurs, la 36e session de la Conférence générale de l’UNESCO et son Forum des dirigeants nous offrent  l’opportunité de nous exprimer, pour la première fois, devant notre prestigieuse Organisation internationale dédiée à la  culture et au savoir. Je suis particulièrement honoré de votre invitation, et je vous en remercie. Madame la Directrice  générale, je tiens aussi à vous féliciter, d’une part, pour votre élection à la tête de l’Organisation et, d’autre part, pour le  fait d’être la première femme à accéder à cette fonction. Au Gabon, en effet, nous avons toujours été sensibles à la  place qu’occupe la femme dans la société. En guise d’hommage, je dois rappeler que ce sont deux femmes qui ont  conduit, sans heurt, la délicate transition de mon pays suite au décès de mon prédécesseur, le Président Omar  Bongo Ondimba. L’une de ces femmes, Présidente du Sénat, a assuré l’intérim de la Présidence de la République ;  l’autre, Présidente de la Cour constitutionnelle, a conduit le processus électoral à son terme. Je voudrais aussi rendre un  vibrant hommage à la mémoire du professeur Wangari Maathai, militante inlassable en faveur du développement  durable et première femme africaine prix Nobel de la paix, en 2004, qui nous a quittés récemment.
8.2 Madame la Directrice générale, le thème retenu pour ce Forum, à savoir, « Comment l’UNESCO contribue-t- elle à l’édification d’une culture de la paix et au développement durable ? », nous interpelle à juste titre, car les  problématiques identifiées constituent des axes majeurs de notre programme de société. Je réaffirme, devant cette  Assemblée, l’attachement du Gabon aux valeurs cardinales qui ont porté, dès 1945, notre Organisation sur les fonts  baptismaux, autour de l’idéal de solidarité, d’éducation et de culture au service de la paix. Madame la Directrice générale,  Mesdames et Messieurs, en novembre 2003, à Libreville, le Gabon organisait, de concert avec l’UNESCO, une  importante conférence internationale sur le thème « Le dialogue interculturel et la culture de la paix en Afrique centrale et  dans la région des Grands Lacs ». Cette rencontre avait souligné la nécessité d’intégrer la diversité culturelle, le dialogue  interculturel et l’éducation dans les stratégies de renforcement de la culture de la paix. C’est ici le lieu idéal pour rappeler  que cette culture de la paix, que nous avons héritée de mon prédécesseur, le Président Omar Bongo Ondimba, a  toujours guidé notre action. Il a toujours affirmé, à juste titre, que l’Afrique devait d’abord privilégier la paix pour faire face  aux trop nombreux défis auxquels elle est confrontée. Ce contexte de paix dans lequel nous vivons aujourd’hui, les  Gabonais ont l’obligation de le préserver.
8.3 Ce sont ces fondements de notre culture politique qui sous-tendent mon action, en particulier celle que je mène  pour matérialiser mon ambition de faire du Gabon un pays émergent. Notre programme de société, qui s’articule autour
45  de trois piliers que sont un Gabon des services, un Gabon vert et un Gabon industriel, intègre indéniablement les nobles  objectifs de l’UNESCO. C’est ainsi que nous plaçons un accent singulier sur, d’une part, le renforcement des capacités  humaines à travers un système éducatif performant adapté aux besoins du pays et une offre de formation diverse et  décentralisée, et, d’autre part, une gestion plus rationnelle de nos ressources naturelles capable de concilier la  protection de l’environnement et le développement économique afin de rendre celui-ci durable. Toutefois, comme je l’ai  déjà souligné, le programme de développement sur la base duquel j’ai été élu doit reposer sur les trois piliers que sont la  paix, la démocratie et la bonne gouvernance.
8.4 Madame la Directrice générale, nous observons que le monde évolue au rythme de tendances et de  dynamiques contradictoires. En effet, la mondialisation, malgré les opportunités qu’elle offre, transforme notre planète  jour après jour. Cette mutation, vous en conviendrez, expose nos pays aux effets négatifs et pervers du développement  qui se traduisent aujourd’hui par les trop nombreuses crises sociales, économiques et environnementales auxquelles  nous assistons. Aussi, l’Afrique, qui vient de célébrer les cinquantenaires de ses indépendances, doit-elle encore faire  face à de nombreux défis qui mettent la paix et son développement en péril. Il convient de rappeler qu’en 1992, la  Déclaration de Rio établissait que l’élimination de la pauvreté était la condition d’un développement durable pour tous.  En cette fin d’année 2011, force est de constater que nous sommes encore très loin de respecter cet engagement, et  que les Objectifs du Millénaire pour le développement ne seront certainement pas atteints dans les délais prescrits. Dans  ce contexte, nous pouvons légitimement nous interroger sur les stratégies à mettre en œuvre face à l’expression d’un  réel désespoir des peuples, qui se traduit par les revendications sociales et politiques que l’on observe à travers le  monde. Face à cette réalité, notre grand défi consiste à rénover la gouvernance globale. Cette gouvernance, refondée,  doit nous permettre d’infléchir le cours de la mondialisation afin qu’elle prenne un visage plus humain, capable de réduire  les fractures économiques, sociales, technologiques, culturelles et morales. Celles-ci, en effet, tendent à ancrer et à  amplifier les divisions entre les nations, mais surtout, également, entre les peuples. À titre d’exemple, je citerai le fossé  qui sépare la communauté internationale dans le cadre des négociations sur le changement climatique, bien que tout le  monde s’accorde à reconnaître la très haute priorité qu’il faut accorder à cette question pour la sauvegarde de notre  planète.
8.5 Madame la Directrice générale, Mesdames et Messieurs, le Gabon se sent, à plusieurs égards, particulièrement  concerné par ces différents défis. Mais que peut, que doit faire notre Organisation dans le contexte que je viens de  décrire ? Je voudrais, ici, souligner combien l’adhésion de nos États à l’UNESCO a été un moment symbolique et fort de  nos indépendances. En effet, en nous admettant en son sein, cette organisation posait un acte déterminant dans sa  quête de liberté et de paix dans le monde. C’est pourquoi, Madame la Directrice générale, je tiens à vous assurer de  notre adhésion à la vision que vous avez définie pour votre mandat. Nous nous réjouissons de l’accent que vous placez  sur la gouvernance globale, la culture de la paix, la justice et un développement économique et social durable, fondé sur  le savoir, la science et l’innovation, dans un environnement préservé.
8.6 Le développement des pays les plus vulnérables, c’est-à-dire les plus touchés par les diverses crises, nous  oblige à surmonter les difficultés actuelles du système multilatéral. Pour ce faire, l’Afrique doit pleinement retrouver sa  place dans le concert des nations, afin qu’elle puisse se consacrer prioritairement à la formation et à l’éducation, qui  restent et demeurent les plus grands défis à relever. C’est pourquoi nous pensons que l’UNESCO peut davantage  contribuer au développement durable de l’Afrique. Dès lors, il s’agira, pour notre Organisation, de hiérarchiser et de  mieux structurer l’action qu’elle mène en matière de formation, d’éducation, de science et de culture.
8.7 Madame la Directrice générale, Mesdames et Messieurs, le Gabon s’efforce, dans le cadre de la mise en  œuvre de notre programme de société, en cours depuis deux ans, de contribuer à atteindre les objectifs de notre  institution. C’est ainsi que dans le domaine de la culture, nous relançons le projet de Centre international des civilisations  bantu (CICIBA), au sujet duquel j’appelle à une large mobilisation scientifique et culturelle pour que tous apportent leur  appui et participent à cette initiative d’intérêt continental et international. Nous souhaitons ardemment, à travers ce projet,  valoriser et mieux protéger nos traditions et nos cultures. Il ne peut y avoir, en effet, de culture de la paix sans  compréhension mutuelle fondée sur la connaissance et la reconnaissance de nos cultures et de celles des autres. Dans  le même ordre d’idées, nous réfléchissons aux voies et moyens de protéger le patrimoine culturel et linguistique des  Pygmées.
8.8 Dans le domaine de la formation et de l’éducation, vecteurs de paix et principaux piliers de la lutte contre les  vulnérabilités des populations, plusieurs initiatives ont été menées. À titre d’illustration, j’ai décidé, à l’occasion de la  commémoration du centenaire de l’arrivée du docteur Albert Schweitzer au Gabon, de mobiliser les énergies et les  compétences internationales pour redonner un souffle nouveau et vigoureux à la Fondation qu’il nous a laissée en  héritage. C’est ainsi qu’une structure hospitalo-universitaire verra le jour à Lambaréné, où il a exercé et s’est éteint, pour  former nos médecins et soigner nos populations. Les travaux du Forum de la jeunesse, qui s’est récemment tenu au  Gabon, ont permis de mieux appréhender les attentes de nos jeunes et de mieux connaître les voies et moyens de les  rendre autonomes. En effet, seule une jeunesse responsable et bien formée assurera l’avenir de nos pays dans un  climat de paix indispensable au développement. Pour rassembler des hommes et des femmes afin d’œuvrer au  développement d’un pays, il ne faut exclure personne. C’est ainsi que le Gabon a fait inscrire à l’ordre du jour de  l’Assemblée générale des Nations Unies la résolution faisant du 23 juin de chaque année la Journée de la veuve et de  l’orphelin, dont le niveau de précarité exige, de notre part, attention et protection.
8.9 Enfin, dans le domaine de la gestion durable des ressources, le Gabon s’est lancé dans un programme de lutte  contre le changement climatique, dont la stratégie sera présentée à la Conférence de Durban en décembre prochain.  Pour appuyer cet important programme, il s’ouvrira, en 2012, un Complexe d’observation spatiale qui offrira à plus d’une  vingtaine de pays voisins du Gabon un outil moderne d’acquisition d’images satellites qui permettra de mettre en place  et de suivre les politiques d’aménagement du territoire et d’exploitation des ressources naturelles. Né d’une coopération
46  entre pays développés, pays émergents et pays en voie de développement, ce projet reste un exemple de solidarité des  nations et des peuples, seule à même de répondre efficacement aux grands défis qui mettent en péril l’avenir de notre  planète.
8.10 Madame la Directrice générale, Mesdames et Messieurs, j’entends faire en sorte que le Gabon continue de  tenir activement son rôle au sein de notre Organisation afin que notre coopération soit mutuellement bénéfique et  fructueuse. L’UNESCO demeure, pour notre pays, un partenaire privilégié de l’action qu’il mène pour son  développement. Ce développement, cependant, ne peut se réaliser que dans un contexte de paix et de partage. C’est le  sens que je donne à la stratégie de développement d’un Gabon émergent qui apporte sa contribution à la préservation  de notre environnement, tant est fort, dans l’esprit de toute Gabonaise et de tout Gabonais, le lien indissoluble entre  nature et culture. Je vous remercie.
9. The President:   Your Excellency, thank you very much. And now, ladies and gentlemen, let me now introduce His Excellency Mr  Alassane Ouattara, President of Côte d’Ivoire (Applause). Like his country, Mr Ouattara has a rich history. He is  descendant of the rulers of the great Kong Empire. Lasting from 1710 until 1895, it embraced a diversity of religious  groups over a vast area of West Africa, encompassing what is now Burkina Faso and Côte d’Ivoire. President Ouattara is  an economist by profession. He studied natural sciences before obtaining his master’s degree and doctorate in  economics from the University of Pennsylvania. Mr Ouattara worked for the International Monetary Fund (IMF) in  Washington DC, and then climbed the echelons of the Central Bank of West African States, where he was finally  appointed as Governor. The late President of Côte d’Ivoire took note of the rising star and appointed him Prime Minister  in 1990. He served in this post more than three years, while also carrying out presidential duties for the ailing President.  President Ouattara then returned to the IMF, where he was Deputy Managing Director for five years, before returning to  his country to take part in politics again. Your Excellency, the floor is yours.
10.1 M. Ouattara (Président de la Côte d’Ivoire) :   Merci, Madame la Présidente. J’étais un peu pressé, mais c’est parce que je souhaitais ardemment vous saluer  et vous féliciter. Nous sommes tellement heureux et fiers que ce soit une grande dame qui préside cette Conférence  générale auprès de la Directrice générale, notre grande amie. Merci beaucoup. Monsieur Schmitt, Président de la  République de Hongrie, Monsieur Bongo Ondimba, Président de la République du Gabon, mon cher frère et ami,  Monsieur Koupaki, Premier Ministre représentant le Président de la République du Bénin, Mesdames et Messieurs les  Chefs d’État et de gouvernement, Madame la Présidente de la Conférence générale, Madame la Présidente du Conseil  exécutif, Madame la Directrice générale, Mesdames et Messieurs les Ambassadeurs et délégués permanents,  honorables invités, Mesdames et Messieurs, comme je le disais, Madame la Présidente, c’est avec un réel plaisir que je  me retrouve dans l’enceinte de cette prestigieuse institution qu’est l’UNESCO, pour la seconde fois en moins de deux  mois aux côtés de la Directrice générale. En effet, après le 14 septembre dernier, date à laquelle l’UNESCO nous a  accueillis pour la cérémonie de remise du Prix Félix Houphouët-Boigny pour la recherche de la paix, je suis heureux  d’être une nouvelle fois ici, dans le cadre de la 36e session de la Conférence générale, pour traiter du thème « Comment  l’UNESCO contribue-t-elle à l’édification d’une culture de la paix et au développement durable ? »
10.2 Je voudrais tout d’abord, au nom de la délégation qui m’accompagne et en mon nom propre, vous adresser  mes sincères remerciements pour l’accueil toujours chaleureux et cordial qui nous est réservé chaque fois que nous  venons ici, dans ce haut lieu du savoir et de la culture, ainsi que pour toutes les dispositions qui ont été prises pour  rendre notre séjour des plus agréables. Avant de continuer, je voudrais, Madame Bogyay, vous féliciter pour votre  brillante élection à la Présidence de la 36e session de la Conférence générale de l’UNESCO. La Côte d’Ivoire se réjouit  de voir une femme accéder à ce poste prestigieux. Et, comme nous le disions le mois dernier à l’Assemblée générale  des Nations Unies, dont la 66e session était également présidée par une femme, cela montre à quel point l’évolution du  monde fait place aux femmes, ce dont nous sommes très fiers.
10.3 Votre élection témoigne de la reconnaissance de votre contribution au rayonnement de notre Organisation et à  la promotion de ses idéaux. Nos vœux vous accompagnent et nous sommes persuadés que vous vous acquitterez avec  brio de cette délicate mission. Je voudrais à présent dire à votre prédécesseur, Monsieur Hepbum, que sa présidence  nous laissera le souvenir d’un éminent intellectuel, d’un brillant philosophe et d’un grand ambassadeur de toutes les  cultures. Monsieur le Président, nous vous exprimons toute notre gratitude pour la contribution que vous avez apportée à  l’essor de notre Organisation et pour les résultats encourageants enregistrés sous votre mandat. Je voudrais également  saluer la Présidente du Conseil exécutif, Madame Mitrofanova, ainsi que les éminents membres de cet organe essentiel  de notre Organisation, et les féliciter pour l’immense travail qu’ils ont accompli depuis la 35e session. Je voudrais, enfin,  féliciter très sincèrement la Directrice générale de l’UNESCO, Madame Bokova, pour la marche dynamique qu’elle a  imprimée à l’UNESCO, l’orientant vers un nouvel humanisme.
10.4 Excellences, Messieurs les Chefs d’État et de gouvernement, Mesdames et Messieurs, honorables invités, la  mission de l’UNESCO, qui vise à promouvoir la défense de la paix dans l’esprit et le cœur des hommes et des femmes,  demeure d’actualité, d’autant que les défis à relever sont de plus en plus nombreux. En effet, malgré les efforts  d’organisations humanistes telles que l’UNESCO, malgré le progrès des sciences et des technologies, le monde n’arrête  pas de connaître des crises : crises alimentaires, financières et économiques, crises sociales et, dirais-je même, crises  morales. On est en droit de se demander comment nous devons repenser la marche du monde et agir ensemble pour  conduire les hommes et les femmes vers un mieux-être et donner au monde un visage plus humain. La paix et le  développement durable sont les moyens les plus indiqués pour y parvenir. C’est pourquoi je voudrais féliciter l’UNESCO,  qui nous donne aujourd’hui l’occasion de nous rencontrer pour partager nos expériences et nos espérances afin de nous  enrichir et de nous appuyer dans notre quête commune d’une paix durable. Pour ma part, je suis convaincu que la  culture de la paix et le développement durable sont intrinsèquement liés. En effet, si le développement durable nous
47  impose d’œuvrer à répondre aux besoins des générations présentes sans compromettre la capacité des générations  futures à répondre aux leurs, c’est dans la paix et par la culture de la paix que cela pourra se faire. Sans paix, aucun  développement durable n’est possible.
10.5 C’est pourquoi je voudrais insister sur la paix, ainsi que sur les conditions nécessaires à la paix, notamment à  partir de l’expérience que vient de connaître mon pays, la Côte d’Ivoire. Pour cerner le concept de culture de la paix, je  voudrais me référer à la définition de la paix donnée par feu le Président Houphouët-Boigny, notre premier Président,  lors du huitième Sommet de l’OUA à Addis-Abeba, le 2 juin 1971. Cette définition, 40 ans après, conserve à mon sens  toute son actualité. Le Président Houphouët-Boigny disait : « La paix à l’intérieur des États africains ne doit reposer que  sur la justice, la tolérance, le dialogue permanent, le respect de la personne humaine et de sa dignité, le respect des  libertés, l’égalité entre les hommes ». Voyez comme notre premier Président était visionnaire.
10.6 Mesdames et Messieurs, le difficile apprentissage de la démocratie a conduit la Côte d’Ivoire à une situation  paradoxale. Elle a connu la guerre, alors qu’elle est la terre de naissance du concept de culture de la paix. Comme vous  le savez, nous avons, auprès de l’UNESCO, un prix Félix Houphouët-Boigny lié à la recherche de la paix. La rupture qui  s’est opérée dans mon pays permet de comprendre que la paix est fragile et délicate, ce qui explique qu’elle peut  disparaître à tout moment. Longtemps, les Ivoiriens, dans leur immense majorité, ont pensé que la paix était établie pour  de bon en Côte d’Ivoire. Nous avons appris à connaître la valeur de la paix à partir de l’expérience douloureuse que  nous venons de vivre. La paix, à notre sens, est sacrée, et le Président Houphouët-Boigny disait : « Le vrai bonheur, on  ne l’apprécie que quand on l’a perdu ». Il faut donc honorer la paix. Malheureusement, suite à une tentative de  démocratisation mal conduite, la paix dans notre pays a été dangereusement contrariée. Elle continue de l’être dans  bien des contrées, où des vies humaines sont détruites, des biens saccagés, et des femmes et filles violentées. La  guerre et son cortège d’horreurs se manifestent, hélas, plus souvent que la paix, le respect des droits de l’homme et les  bienfaits de la démocratie. Cependant, j’ai la conviction qu’il y a toujours des raisons profondes d’espérer, comme celle  qui nous réunit ici, aujourd’hui, dans cette maison de la paix qu’est l’UNESCO.
10.7 Messieurs les Chefs d’État et de gouvernement, honorables invités, Mesdames et Messieurs, Messieurs les  Ambassadeurs et délégués permanents, la Côte d’Ivoire a aujourd’hui renoué avec la paix et la stabilité. Notre pays a  décidé de tout mettre en œuvre pour éviter de replonger dans le chaos et les événements du passé que nous avons tant  déplorés. Je voudrais, à ce stade de mon propos, renouveler la gratitude du peuple ivoirien à toute la communauté  internationale, notamment à l’ONU et, plus particulièrement, à l’UNESCO, qui nous apporte, à travers un Programme  global spécial post-conflit, un appui dans ses divers domaines de compétence, en vertu de la résolution 34 C/60 et des  décisions 179 EX/38 et 180 EX/43 ; mon pays voudrait voir ce programme actualisé et renforcé. Nous y tenons fortement  au regard de l’impact que la crise a sur le tissu social, le système éducatif et la situation des jeunes, surtout celle des  réfugiés et des déplacés. Tous ces domaines relèvent, bien entendu, de la compétence de l’UNESCO. La construction  d’une paix véritable nécessite une action pluridimensionnelle : matérielle, économique, financière, environnementale,  mais également éthique. Pour parvenir à bâtir durablement la paix dans notre pays, il faut avant tout mettre en pratique  les préceptes suivants, déjà évoqués : d’abord, respecter la vie en rejetant la violence sous tous ses aspects, respecter  les droits de l’homme, et recourir au dialogue pour régler pacifiquement les conflits. L’application de ces préceptes qui, à  mes yeux, constituent les enjeux de la culture de la paix, passe par plusieurs stratégies que nous avons décidé de  mettre en œuvre pour, d’une part, sortir définitivement de la crise et, d’autre part, bâtir, à l’horizon 2020, un pays  émergent avec une société inclusive, prospère, juste et ouverte à la modernité.
10.8 Parmi ces stratégies, il y a tout d’abord la construction de la démocratie. Pour bien des pays et pour l’UNESCO,  cette entreprise n’est pas nouvelle. Elle l’est, en revanche, pour les peuples qui sortent d’un grand traumatisme comme  celui que nous avons vécu. Il s’agit d’une rude tâche, qui exige un engagement sur tous les fronts, dont les plus difficiles  se situent bien souvent au niveau des mentalités. Pour la construction de la démocratie, il nous faut édifier un véritable  État de droit, où aucun citoyen ne se fait justice, et où les rapports sont régis par des règles de droit que chacun  s’engage à respecter scrupuleusement. Pour ma part, j’ai pris cet engament, et je veux promouvoir un État de justice et  d’équité. La voie de la construction de la démocratie est certes difficile, mais nous n’y renoncerons pas. C’est, selon  nous, la seule voie qui vaille durablement dans ce monde moderne.
10.9 Dans le cadre de ce processus de démocratisation, le Gouvernement ivoirien met tout en œuvre pour organiser  des élections législatives le 11 décembre prochain. Ces élections, tout comme les élections présidentielles, seront  conformes aux accords conclus entre les parties ivoiriennes, notamment à l’Accord politique de Ouagadougou. Par  ailleurs, en mettant en place la Commission Dialogue, vérité et réconciliation, mon pays a conscience que la cohésion  sociale est une priorité. Cette commission permettra de prendre en compte la dimension éthique de la restauration de la  cohésion sociale. Le devoir de pardon doit conduire les uns et les autres au pardon, sans exclure la repentance, ni la  justice. Nous estimons que cette réconciliation doit se faire dans la justice, qui doit sanctionner pleinement les crimes de  guerre et les crimes contre l’humanité. Dans ce contexte, bien entendu, la justice internationale doit également jouer son  rôle. On peut bien évidemment, à la recherche du pardon et de la justice, explorer les voies traditionnelles, ainsi que des  modes de résolution des conflits et de consolidation de la cohésion inhérents à notre propre culture. Je pense, par  exemple, à ce que nous appelons chez nous les « alliances» qui existent entre les différents groupes ethniques. En Côte  d’Ivoire et, peut-être, ailleurs en Afrique, nos chercheurs œuvrent dans cette perspective. Il faut les y encourager et  espérer que les résultats seront exploitables dans le contexte de la modernité. Le Programme Gestion des  transformations sociales (MOST) de l’UNESCO peut nous aider à aller plus loin dans cette voie.
10.10 Messieurs les Chefs d’État et de gouvernement, Mesdames et Messieurs, de toutes les voies de recherche de  la paix, celles qui induisent des valeurs et des comportements proprement humains forment, à nos yeux, le socle sur  lequel tout doit reposer. Je demeure convaincu que la paix est aussi une exigence éthique inscrite dans le cœur des  Ivoiriens, comme dans celui de toute personne. Pour conclure, je voudrais souligner que la culture de la paix s’impose
48  comme une exigence éthique et pédagogique ou, plus encore, comme une nécessité de conversion à cette paix. L’école,  dans ce processus, a un rôle capital d’éducation et de formation à jouer, comme l’a indiqué tout à l’heure le Président  Bongo Ondimba. De plus, les traités, les accords, les séminaires, les conférences et l’amélioration des conditions  matérielles et physiques des peuples peuvent contribuer de manière significative à cette évolution. C’est pour cela qu’il  importe de continuer à soutenir et à aider les pays en développement, notamment les plus pauvres, et je salue l’action  que l’UNESCO mène à cet égard. Seules, cependant, ces conditions ne suffisent pas, car il faut également être efficace.  Il faut que ces pays, qui ont connu des crises, aient la volonté de se prendre en main, de se prendre en charge.  L’efficacité des instruments dépend des agents du changement que nous devons tous être, en œuvrant à sa réalisation,  en tant qu’artisans de la paix. Nous devons croire en la paix. Nous devons la rechercher à tout prix. Si j’ai insisté sur la  paix et non sur le développement durable, c’est parce que nous pensons que la paix conduit à ce développement, dont  je sais que mes prédécesseurs ont longuement parlé. Madame la Directrice générale, je salue votre action et votre  courage, et voudrais vous dire que vous avez tout notre soutien, car nous voyons tout ce que vous faites pour que la  paix s’enracine durablement dans tous ces pays qui ont connu des crises. Nous vous en sommes reconnaissants. Tous  les peuples du monde, à mon sens, sont capables de paix. Il faut y croire, s’engager et travailler à cela. Je vous remercie.
11. The President:   Your Excellency, thank you very much. And, ladies and gentlemen, Your Excellencies, before giving the floor to  our next speaker, I would like to inform you that the President of Hungary has to leave now, for a bilateral meeting with  the President of the French National Assembly.   The meeting is suspended briefly while the President and the Director-General  take leave of the President of Hungary.
12. The President:  Ladies and gentlemen, distinguished guests, delegates, now we are going to have the pleasure of hearing an  address by His Excellency Mr Tillman Thomas, Prime Minister of Grenada. Mr Thomas was born into humble beginnings.  He was able to rise to the highest post in his country thanks to the values transmitted by his parents and the education  he received, from his modest local Catholic school to New York’s prestigious Fordham University, where he earned a  degree in economics. He later studied law and become an attorney. Upon his return to Grenada, Mr Thomas began his  political career and became involved in a human rights programme, providing legal support services to needy citizens.  He campaigned for openness and transparency, for which he paid a heavy price. Mr Thomas was imprisoned for two  years for his role in publishing the Grenadian Voice Newspaper, which was seen by the government at the time as  “counter-revolutionary”. When democracy was restored to Grenada, Mr Thomas was elected to the House of  Representatives and served for six years as Junior Minister in the Ministry of Legal Affairs. He then entered the  opposition, where he spent 13 years before winning the general election on 8 July 2008 and being sworn in as Prime  Minister the following day. Ladies and gentlemen, it’s an honour to welcome the Prime Minister of Grenada.
13.1 Mr Thomas (Prime Minister of Grenada):  Thank you, Madam President.Your Excellency President of the Republic of Gabon, Your Excellency President of  the Republic of Côte d’Ivoire, Your Excellency Prime Minister of the Republic of Benin, Director-General of UNESCO,  other officials of UNESCO, Ambassadors, Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, allow me, Madam President, to offer my  heartfelt congratulations to you upon your election as President of the 36th session of the General Conference and wish  you every success during your presidency. I am confident that you will guide this session to a great, successful outcome.  I also take this opportunity to pay tribute to Dr Davidson Hepburn, President of the 35th session of the General  Conference, the first President from our Caribbean Community (CARICOM), for having carried out his duties at this level  with dignity and with a consensual spirit. His election to the position confirmed the determination of Member States to  change the status quo, by choosing someone from a small island developing State of CARICOM to assume this  important responsibility in UNESCO; and indeed someone from the Latin America and the Caribbean Group (GRULAC).
13.2 Today we are gathered here to consider how UNESCO’s action could create, develop and promote the  pathways to lasting peace and sustainable development. Established to construct “the defences of peace in the minds of  men”, and women, through international cooperation in education, sciences, culture, communication and information, the  ideals of UNESCO remain most relevant for strengthening Member States’ solidarity and contributing to peace and  security through the promotion of a culture of peace, and for sustainable development.
13.3 Madam President, achieving the Millennium Development Goals by 2015 has been recognized as one of the  best ways to lay the foundations for sustainable development. Unfortunately, the global economic crisis has accentuated  the many challenges and obstacles to the attainment of these goals. Moreover, this has had dire consequences for  developing countries, and in particular for the economy of Grenada and of many small island developing States. Thus  our march towards the achievement of our desired goals has been considerably slowed. Sustainable development  requires an ethical framework for a sustainable world, involving the simultaneous pursuit of economic prosperity,  environmental quality and socio-political sustainability. Building a culture of peace is a prerequisite for reaching socio- economic equity and sustainable development.
13.4 Madam President, how then can we build a culture of peace? What strategies and initiatives can be developed  to foster a culture of peace and non-violence as well as sustainable models of development? It is an accepted view that  education is not only a human right, but also a prerequisite for sustainable development, and an essential tool for good  governance, informed decisions and the promotion of democracy. As such, it is essential to integrate, at all levels of the  education system, the values of a culture of peace, the principles of equality, freedom, justice and democracy, respect for  all human rights, tolerance, reconciliation, solidarity and promotion of intercultural dialogue and mutual understanding.  Similarly, developing education for sustainable development also requires a special focus on climate change and
49  disaster risk reduction and prevention. This leads to a greater awareness, and to new ways of thinking, new social and  ethical attitudes, and innovative responses, to our most pressing contemporary challenges. In this context, may I propose  that UNESCO should deepen the partnership with Member States in their efforts to transform education systems at all  levels. This is necessary for accelerating progress towards education for all, lifelong learning, attaining quality education  and developing skills for the world of work through curriculum reform; carrying out policy reviews and the further  development of technical and vocational education and training (TVET), including green jobs, and higher education, to  meet the demands of the twenty-first century.
13.5 Madam President, Madam Director-General, in this era of globalization, the world cannot genuinely prosper with  inequalities between regions, and priority should continue to be given to Africa for building a strategy for African  prosperity. Special attention should also be given to the needs of priority groups of countries such as the least developed  countries (LDCs) and small island developing States (SIDS). This is absolutely necessary to allow them to address the  unique conditions that render them disadvantaged.
13.6 Likewise, a global society cannot maximize its true potential with inequality among its members. Hence,  attention must be paid to gender equality, as a fundamental pillar of peace. Girls and women currently make up some
70% of the world’s one billion poorest people, and the majority of the 793 million illiterate adults. As stated by Ms Irina  Bokova, Director-General of UNESCO, in her message on the occasion of International Literacy Day, “Literacy is a  prerequisite for peace because it carries multiple benefits, cutting across the human, cultural, social, political and  economic spheres. In today’s knowledge-driven societies, lack of literacy is more than ever synonymous with exclusion  and marginalization”. Given that one of UNESCO’s global strategies is gender equality, the Organization should intensify  its action in promoting education of girls and women at all levels of the education system. This would be timely following  the recent awarding of the Nobel Peace Prize jointly to three women, Ellen Johnson Sirleaf, Leymah Gbowee and  Tawakkol Karman, for their non-violent struggle for the safety of women and for women's rights to full participation in  peace-building work. Advocating for gender equality also requires that specific attention be given to the needs and  contributions of young men in our Caribbean societies where a disproportionate number of males are confronted by  underachievement, poverty, violence and exclusion. We expect UNESCO to develop strategies to address the emerging  social and ethical challenges of the twenty-first century, by supporting Member States in the development of social  science knowledge, and elaborating forward-looking and inclusive approaches and policies, to respond to social  transformations and promote social inclusion.
13.7 Madam President, our young people also want their voices to be heard and to be responsible actors in their  various societies. That being so, it would be critical to empower them, to allow them to initiate social change and to be  active participants in determining their own future. Today, they are interconnected and are constantly communicating and  playing key roles in bringing change to their societies via the social media. It is therefore important for the potential of the  free, independent and pluralistic media, and especially the new social media, to be harnessed. This is consistent with  Agenda 21, which clearly identifies information, integration and participation as key building blocks to help countries  achieve development. The media, in all forms, can serve as a bridge between cultures and societies. Consequently, I  suggest that UNESCO should intensify its action in favour of building knowledge societies. UNESCO’s mandate to  contribute to bridging the digital divide by fostering information and communication capacity for universal access,  freedom of expression and freedom of the press, notably through the International Programme for the Development of  Communications and the Information for All Programme, should be actively pursued.
13.8 Madam President, Madam Director-General, the global environmental and ecological crisis, manifested in  climate change, biodiversity loss, oceanic over-exploitation and degradation, desertification, freshwater shortages and  sea-level rises, highlights the need for new approaches to the management of our resources. Our approach should  involve cross-sectoral coordination and integration of environmental and social concerns into all development processes,  as well as broad public participation in decision-making to generate responsible behaviours. In this regard, the  participation of UNESCO in the preparation of the Rio + 20 Conference to be held in Rio de Janeiro, Brazil, in June 2012,  is of the utmost importance. The Organization’s contribution in its main fields of competence, namely governance,  education for sustainable development and ethical aspects of sciences, should be reinforced. This will be a major  opportunity to rethink policies and approaches, taking into consideration the needs of all stakeholders, in particular the  most vulnerable societies in Africa and island economies. It is expected that embracing the concept of inclusive  blue/green societies will be considered in a realistic way. Madam President, the role of the oceans is of strategic  importance in this environmental crisis. An integrated, responsible management of the oceans and an improved global  ocean governance framework are also prerequisites for the sustainable use of these resources. The implementation of  early warning systems for tsunamis and other marine hazards is necessary to prevent disasters such as the ones  witnessed recently in Japan and other countries. UNESCO should seek to mobilize the necessary funds for the  installation, in all regions, of early warning systems, in particular in the Caribbean, where only 20% of the extrabudgetary  funds needed have presently been secured for this project. In this respect, I am happy that Grenada was able to host the  UNESCO-Intergovernmental Oceanographic Commission (IOC) workshop on "Strengthening Sea-level Observation  Network and Coordination Activities in the Caribbean" in January this year. For small island countries such as we have in  the Caribbean, this could mean the difference between survival and total destruction of our populations. In all its  deliberations, GRULAC must reflect all perspectives, or perhaps due consideration should be given to sub-grouping  which would facilitate such a process.
13.9 Madam President, culture can be a mainspring for the sustainable development of people, communities and  nations. Developing a solid cultural policy and advocating a cultural dimension in all public policies are critical. As a result,  we applaud the signal importance of UNESCO’s action for the protection and promotion of heritage and cultural  expressions. In particular, the Organization’s mandate through its normative action, and the implementation of its main  conventions, namely the Convention for the Protection of the World Cultural and Natural Heritage, the Convention for the
50  Safeguarding of the Intangible Cultural Heritage, the Convention for the Protection and Promotion of the Diversity of  Cultural Expressions, and the Convention on the Protection of the Underwater Cultural Heritage must all be translated  into meaningful tangible actions. As these conventions are becoming more and more widely recognized and effective, it  is time now for UNESCO to work towards regional and subregional equity. The Organization should now focus on more  capacity-building and innovative actions, to assist these countries and regions in maximizing the potential benefits from  these instruments.
13.10 Madam President, science, too, can play a role in building a culture of peace by proposing innovative solutions  to challenges encountered. Providing science-based knowledge, building science capacities for research, training and  the popularization of science in development-oriented areas, as well as sharing the transfer of scientific information, are  a collective and ethical responsibility, bearing in mind the borderless nature of the global environmental crises. It is  important that UNESCO redouble its efforts in this area, assisting in providing solutions to the new challenges which  affect the lives and livelihoods of so many people worldwide. The increased number of natural disasters resulting from  climate change, which have an impact on all regions of the world, represents a great threat to global prosperity and  security. The special needs of small islands, some of them in danger of extinction, and those of vulnerable groups, in  particular those living in coastal zones, should be taken into consideration. A holistic approach, taking into account the  scientific, educational, cultural and ethical dimensions, should be translated into concrete initiatives by all stakeholders.  The ethical dimension of science and technology must be highlighted, and Grenada attaches great importance to the  development of policies in the ethics of science and technology, and in particular to UNESCO’s continued work  concerning ethical principles in relation to climate change. The Organization should further mobilize science, technology  and innovation for sustainable development, and natural disaster risk reduction and mitigation.
13.11 Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, small island developing States are confronted by environmental  degradation, and UNESCO’s contribution to the Mauritius Strategy for the Sustainable Development of SIDS should be  developed through innovative, strategic and targeted contributions adapted to their specific needs in an intersectoral  approach involving the active engagement of all Major Programmes – education, science, culture and communication  and information. Consistent with UNESCO’s Constitution, which clearly states that peace must be established on the  basis of the “intellectual and moral solidarity of mankind", Member States should recognize that more solidarity and  international cooperation is needed, to allow UNESCO to carry out its mission. To achieve solidarity in a transforming  world, UNESCO also needs to be more efficient, more focused and able to reshape itself, adapting to an era in which  multilateral cooperation is faced with increased demands and increased austerity. The results and recommendations of  the Independent External Evaluation of UNESCO, and the recommendations of the ad hoc working group established by  the Executive Board, present an opportunity for UNESCO to adapt to the realities of the twenty-first century, and to play  its role as an agent of change within the United Nations. In this regard, we welcome the proposal to extend the  Programme and Budget of UNESCO from two to four years and its Medium-Term Strategy from four to eight years. This  will allow UNESCO to align its planning cycles with the United Nations’ Quadrennial Comprehensive Policy Review.
13.12 Madam President, the defences of peace are constructed in the minds of men and women. They are also  constructed in the precincts of international organizations. By recommending that the General Conference admit  Palestine’s membership to UNESCO, the Executive Board has taken a courageous decision consistent with its mandate.  Its admission as a Member of the Organization will allow Palestine and Israel to work together, by a commitment to  sustained security and democracy, and to building a culture of peace and sustainable development through the power of  UNESCO’s mandate.
13.13 What we now need is a new global commitment from all Member States to tackle the challenges we face, and to  make the most of the transformative power of education, science, culture, and communication and information. Together  we can make that difference. I wish to highly commend UNESCO for its outstanding achievements over the years and  indeed the further growth it has been experiencing under the leadership of its first woman Director-General. You can  count on our continued support.
14. The President:   Thank you very much. And now I would now like to give the floor to His Excellency Mr Pascal Irénée Koupaki,  Prime Minister of Benin. Mr Koupaki earned his master’s degree in economic sciences at the National University of Benin.  He then pursued his studies at the Sorbonne, where he gained his post-doctoral degree. Later on, he followed in the  footsteps of President Ouattara and joined the Central Bank of West African States, where he held various positions from
1979 to 1990. He then continued as Counsellor of the Deputy Director-General. He returned to Benin in 1996, after being  appointed Minister of Development, Economy and Finance. In 2007, he was appointed Minister of State in charge of  Foresight, Development, Evaluation of Public Policies and Coordination of Government Action. Mr Koupaki assumed his  duties as Prime Minister in May this year. Ladies and gentlemen, it is a pleasure to welcome the Prime Minister. The floor  is yours, Sir.
15.1 M. Koupaki (Premier Ministre du Bénin) :   Merci beaucoup. Monsieur le Président de la République de Côte d’Ivoire, très cher aîné, je voudrais vous dire  que vous avez été, pour moi, une grande source d’inspiration par votre dimension professionnelle, les valeurs que vous  prônez et, surtout, votre courage politique. Merci d’avoir fait revenir la paix dans la sous-région ouest-africaine.
15.2 Madame la Présidente de la Conférence générale, Madame la Présidente du Conseil exécutif, Madame la  Directrice générale, je tiens à noter que vous formez un bien merveilleux trio qui ne peut connaître que le succès.
15.3 Monsieur le Premier Ministre, Mesdames et Messieurs les Ministres, Mesdames et Messieurs les  Ambassadeurs, Mesdames et Messieurs, le Président de la République du Bénin, empêché, m’a demandé de porter la
51  voix de notre pays au Forum des dirigeants de la 36e session de la Conférence générale de l’UNESCO, consacré au  thème « Comment l’UNESCO contribue-t-elle à l’édification d’une culture de la paix et au développement durable ? »
15.4 L’Acte constitutif de l’Organisation des Nations Unies pour l’éducation, la science et la culture précise  notamment, et à juste titre, que la guerre prenant naissant dans l’esprit des hommes, c’est dans l’esprit des hommes que  doivent être élevées les défenses de la paix. Je voudrais rappeler qu’à travers la Déclaration et le Programme d’action  sur la culture de la paix, adoptés à la 53e session de l’Assemblée générale des Nations Unies, à l’aube du millénaire, la  communauté internationale reconnaît que la paix est un processus dynamique, participatif, qui favorise le règlement des  conflits et le dialogue dans un esprit de compréhension mutuelle et de coopération. Elle reconnaît également  l’impérieuse nécessité d’éliminer toutes les formes de discrimination et d’intolérance. La Déclaration affirme également,  sans ambages, que l’éducation à tous les niveaux est l’un des principaux moyens d’édifier une culture de la paix. Elle  stipule que l’UNESCO doit continuer à jouer un rôle important dans la promotion d’une culture de la paix et à apporter  des contributions majeures à cette entreprise.
15.5 Mesdames et Messieurs, l’UNESCO a, par son action, favorisé une culture de la paix en diffusant les bonnes  pratiques et en aidant les États membres à relever le défi majeur que représente la promotion d’une éducation inclusive  de qualité, qui défende les valeurs universelles que sont, notamment, les droits de l’homme, la paix, la tolérance et  l’éducation pour tous au service du développement durable. Plus spécifiquement, elle a mis au point des outils  d’enseignement et d’apprentissage, des manuels et des directives sur des sujets tels que le « vivre ensemble », les  droits de l’homme et les droits de l’enfant, la paix et la démocratie, l’égalité entre les sexes et la prévention de la violence  dans les écoles. Ce sont là des contributions concrètes qui permettent d’apprécier la valeur ajoutée que l’UNESCO  apporte à l’action des États membres, qui, il faut le souligner, ont la responsabilité primordiale d’édifier un système  éducatif répondant aux normes internationales. À cet égard, le Bénin salue l’action efficace qu’ont menée les différents  directeurs généraux qui se sont succédé à la tête de l’Organisation et, plus particulièrement, Irina Bokova, élue Directrice  générale de l’UNESCO pour sa volonté de continuer à assurer la promotion d’une culture de la paix et du  développement durable.
15.6 L’analyse de l’actualité économique et sociale montre que le monde reste troublé par des guerres et des conflits  divers, ainsi que par des contestations sociales qui n’épargnent aucun continent. Ces contestations ont mis en évidence  la nécessité de promouvoir un développement intégral de l’homme, quel qu’il soit, d’assurer un développement intégré  des peuples, et de transformer le monde en un espace commun de croissance et de développement. Le développement  est en effet l’autre nom de la paix. Bien plus, la paix et le développement, mots jumeaux, sont indissociables de la  démocratie, qui est l’instrument majeur de leur réalisation. Il paraît donc important que l’UNESCO poursuive ses efforts  pour, dans le monde, accompagner vers la démocratie les pays en transition. Pour éloigner le spectre de conflits sociaux  ou générationnels et nous engager de façon irréversible dans un environnement de paix, il convient d’accorder une  attention particulière à l’emploi des jeunes, qui représentent près de 60 % de la population africaine. C’est pourquoi  l’UNESCO doit s’efforcer de mettre en œuvre les conclusions de la Réunion de haut niveau des Nations Unies sur la  jeunesse tenue à New York les 25 et 26 juillet 2011, et contribuer à l’élaboration d’une stratégie mondiale de promotion  de l’emploi des jeunes et d’élimination du sous-emploi. Il importe de faire des jeunes les principaux acteurs de la paix  dans nos sociétés si l’on veut qu’ils cessent d’être une proie facile pour les ennemis de la démocratie et du  développement durable inclusif.
15.7 Il nous faut, pour réduire la fracture sociale, inventer de nouvelles approches, aussi bien au niveau mondial qu’à  celui de nos pays. Il nous faut développer une économie mondiale, sociale et solidaire qui valorise le capital humain et  assure l’équilibre et la complémentarité entre l’homme et la nature. L’humanité, en effet, ne gagnera pas le pari de la  paix, pour chacun et pour tous, si elle ne rompt pas avec la logique du profit maximal et immédiat, aveugle et sourd à  toute forme de solidarité et de préservation des intérêts des générations futures. À ce titre, l’UNESCO est appelée,  davantage encore que par le passé, à jouer un rôle déterminant dans le développement de la planète. Laboratoire  d’idées, elle doit pleinement jouer son rôle d’éveilleur de conscience, inventer de nouvelles règles et créer des espaces  d’échanges plus humains et porteurs d’espérance pour sauver les générations futures du fléau des guerres et favoriser  ainsi l’émergence de meilleures conditions de vie.
15.8 Mesdames et Messieurs, le Bénin considère donc que l’UNESCO doit prendre une part active aux efforts que la  communauté internationale déploie pour aider à éliminer la pauvreté et à réaliser les Objectifs du Millénaire pour le  développement. L’appui accordé aux pays les moins avancés pour les aider à atteindre leurs objectifs de développement  durable doit être renforcé à la faveur de la mise en œuvre du Programme d’action adopté à la 4e Conférence des  Nations Unies sur les pays les moins avancés, tenue à Istanbul en mai 2011. Il est dans l’intérêt de tous les peuples que  l’UNESCO soit constamment renforcée et continue d’être un lieu de dialogue entre les cultures et les civilisations en vue  de l’émergence d’une humanité qui vive en parfaite harmonie avec la nature et coopère pour la paix et le bien-être  commun. En ce qui concerne plus précisément le développement durable, le Bénin suggère de réactiver, au sein de  l’UNESCO, la base de connaissances et de politiques en faveur des énergies renouvelables, en particulier de l’énergie  solaire.
15.9 Par ailleurs, dans le domaine de la culture, il faudrait que l’UNESCO encourage la démarche qui fait de la  langue maternelle une composante essentielle de l’éducation pour tous, bien que la mondialisation et le dialogue  interculturel exigent d’acquérir, par la recherche et l’expérimentation, une éducation multilingue, autre porte d’accès aux  technologies, à la science et à la culture. Mesdames et Messieurs, Messieurs les Chefs d’État et de gouvernement, je  voudrais conclure en notant qu’en renforçant la solidarité entre nos pays et entre les générations, nous pouvons, en  approfondissant la démocratie et en mettant en œuvre des politiques publiques qui favorisent l’accélération du  développement, le partage de la prospérité et, partant, la recherche de la paix entre les nations et les peuples,
52  consolider la paix dans le monde et relever ensemble les défis que nous imposent les bouleversements mondiaux  actuels. Je vous remercie.
16.1 The President:   Thank you very much. And I would like to now welcome the President of Palau, His Excellency Mr Johnson  Toribiong, who has just arrived, and who is going to give his keynote speech tomorrow morning. Thank you, Mr President,  for your presence.
16.2 And now, ladies and gentlemen, Your Excellencies, dear friends, it gives me great pleasure to invite to the floor  Her Excellency Mrs Mehriban Aliyeva, the First Lady of Azerbaijan (Applause). Ms Aliyeva heads the Heydar Aliyev  Foundation, which works hand in hand with UNESCO to safeguard and promote the intangible cultural heritage. She has  shown deep dedication to the goals that guide UNESCO. She is the UNESCO Goodwill Ambassador for Oral and  Musical Traditions. It is a great pleasure to welcome you, Madam, and the floor is yours.
17.1 Ms Aliyeva (First Lady of Azerbaijan):   Madam President of the General Conference, Madam Director-General, ladies and gentlemen, dear guests and  participants, first of all I would like to thank Madam Director-General of UNESCO, Irina Bokova, for her kind invitation to  take part in this important and high-level event.
17.2 The topic of today’s Forum can hardly leave anyone indifferent because indeed the future of humanity is  impossible without building a culture of peace and ensuring sustainable development. Today we live in a very complex  world. On the one hand, it is characterized by the introduction of new technologies and rapid development of modern  science. If natural resources once used to be the only source of wealth, now human beings themselves become its new  source as the initiators of new ideas and technologies. But unlike natural resources, the human mind has no limits. The  term “human capital” is no longer a metaphor. Intellect and wealth can go hand in hand.
17.3 On the other hand, the world is experiencing a deep financial crisis, which is seen by many as a symptom of a  more serious systemic crisis. Ongoing globalization is making us all the residents of a global village, but unfortunately at  the same time we are divided as never before. The economic world is constantly demonstrating how far it is from the  ideals of social justice and global ethics.
17.4 Regrettably, intolerance, xenophobia and hatred are deepening this division. Tens of millions of people in many  countries of the world face the tough consequences of discrimination and rejection because of their race, ethnic roots or  religion. Terrorist attacks, which claim the lives of innocent people, and political and religious radicalism undermine our  security and that of our children. Wars and conflicts continue in various corners of the world, killing millions of people. To  our country, Azerbaijan, conflict and its consequences are not just words but a bitter experience. The Armenia- Azerbaijan-Nagorno-Karabakh conflict, which has claimed tens of thousands of lives, continues to cause the greatest  pain to each of us. This conflict led to the occupation of 20% of Azerbaijan’s lands, with nearly one million Azerbaijanis  becoming refugees and internationally displaced persons (lDP). A large number of historical and architectural  monuments, schools, museums and libraries were destroyed in occupied Azerbaijani territories. Experts forecast that, if  not prevented, conflicts will have killed more than 150 million women and children in the twenty-first century. Most of  these wars began with propaganda of hatred and intolerance.
17.5 But despite this grim picture I look forward with optimism. We should not avoid addressing these threats by  means of civilized dialogue. And this was exactly the goal of the most recent Baku International Humanitarian Forum  which provided an insight into many questions raised today in this hall. The forum, which gathered together  representatives from thirty-nine nations, held discussions on such issues as multiculturalism, modern technologies,  convergence of sciences, biotechnology and ethics problems, humanitarian aspects of economic development models,  social media and advanced technologies, and traditional systems of values in post-modernist society. The forum  participants adopted the Baku Declaration, calling on international organizations, including UNESCO, “to create realistic  frames for intercultural, interconfessional and intercivilizational dialogues as the conditions of preserving and further  positive development of mankind”. And this is fundamental for building a culture of peace.
17.6 Dear participants, it appears that a new world order is already forming and that the process will be fraught with  many complications. I believe that the humanitarian aspects of globalization have become extremely relevant. In this  sense, realizing our responsibility for the fate of human civilization is of the essence. Sincere dialogue, goodwill, a  broader vision of the problems we face and mutual understanding are the tools that we will all need in order to address  these challenges successfully, for our own sake and for the sake of the generations to come. I wish you all a productive  and interesting deliberation and thank you for your attention.
18. The President:   Thank you very much. Ladies and gentleman, we are now starting a new phase in our Leaders’ Forum and I am  very happy to welcome one of the best known faces of the broadcast media who is with us here, Zeinab Badawi, the  presenter of World News Today on both BBC Four and BBC World. She has extensive experience in television and radio,  working on a range of programmes in production, as well as presenting in the studio and reporting from the field. In 2009,  she was named International TV Personality of the Year by the Association of International Broadcasters. She is  currently patron of the BBC World Service Trust, the charitable arm of the BBC and a board member of the National  Portrait Gallery. And personally, I have to tell you, she was the very first presenter I ever met after the political changes  when I started to study at the BBC in London and I am still a staunch admirer of hers. I ended up here and you are here  too, so that is great. I now give the floor to Ms Zeinab Badawi, who will introduce the debate. Ms Badawi, it is a pleasure  to have you with us.
19.1, The Moderator (Ms Zeinab Badawi, news presenter and interviewer, BBC World and BBC Four):   Madam President, thank you. The feeling is mutual. I have long been an admirer or yours. Good morning, Your  Excellencies, ladies and gentlemen. I am really delighted to be here amongst you for this conference on a very, very vital  topic. Before we start our general discussion, I thought I would just share one or two thoughts with you about the theme  of this conference and why I believe what UNESCO does is very, very important.
19.2 Over several decades now I have worked as a journalist in all parts of the world. And, you know, when we  journalists cover stories, we like to see tangible proof of the stories that we are covering. So, if you look at development  issues and efforts to promote sustainable development, we want to see how many vaccination programmes are taking  place in the developing world. We want to see, if there is some kind of food crisis, where the emergency food is coming  from. There are various agencies that do all this, for example in the refugee camps.
19.3 When it comes to the work of UNESCO, which is obviously an organization that deals with soft power and  matters of culture and values, it is much harder for the media to engage in the kind of topics that you deal with here  because you are often involved in a process of trying to engender a culture of values, a human rights agenda, and  promoting education. This is something that takes a long time and it is sometimes hard to get hold of it. But it is  absolutely important. I really am convinced that it is in the battlefield of the mind that humanity will really win its war  against poverty, against suffering and against a lack of freedom. So I really do applaud what you are trying to do here in  terms of promoting culture nationally, as a way for people to gain an identity, get a sense of national pride – as well as  also promoting an intercultural dialogue whereby people not only appreciate the differences between cultures but also  share in the universal experiences that we all like. We know that culture is very, very important in helping to foster a  sense of unity amongst people who might otherwise be divided along social class lines. We are convinced of the need for  scientific education when it comes to development in all parts of the world. But I want to echo what Mr Tillman Thomas,  the Prime Minister of Grenada, said about education, which is absolutely vital and, in particular, girls’ education. And I  say this from my heart because girls’ education is, in a sense, my family business. I was born in the Sudan but I have  been in England since I was two. However, it was my great-grandfather Sheikh Babiker Badri who, at the turn of the last  century in the Sudan, – the Sudanese representative, of course, has heard of him – it was my great-grandfather who  pioneered girls’ education in the Sudan. Up until then, girls were not educated. He was a great visionary – sadly I never  met him as he died before I was born – and he took very bold, brave actions. At the turn of the century Sudan was under  British rule and he was told, “Sheikh Babiker, it is not worth it. Do not bother doing it because you are going to get a lot of  hostility from the community”, and he said, “No, no, no. I insist on doing this.” And he established a school in his own  house for his children. He had many children actually, a lot of daughters. We say in the family that he was so pro-women  that he married four of them. So, he had a lot of children. He set an example by making sure that his own daughters were  educated, and then they developed schools. To this day, my uncle runs a university for women in the capital, Khartoum,  at Omdurman, the Al-Ahfad University for Women, where girls, not only from Sudan but also from other parts of Africa  and the Arab world, are educated. They turn out as doctors and psychologists, historians, economists, and so on. And  you know, my great-grandfather was really vilified by the community. People came and said, “You must not do this.” The  British said do not do it. But he persisted. So I grew up with great-aunts and grandmothers who could read. I grew up  with aunts who are now in their eighties with Ph.Ds from Western universities. So, when people say to me that in  developing countries which are Muslim, girls cannot be educated, it is inconsistent with the values of that religion, I say  that is absolutely not true. I see it in my own family. Just to end the story on a happy note, my great-grandfather was, in  the end, awarded the Order of the British Empire (OBE) by the British for his efforts in promoting girls’ education. This  was back in the late 1940s. The Governor-General of Sudan gave it to him on behalf of the then Prime Minster, Winston  Churchill, and my great-grandfather said, “Well, tell Mr Churchill I fought against him in the Battle of Omdurman, but I will  not hold that against him.” And he took the OBE. He was also a very generous-spirited man, so although he had  opposed the British presence in the Sudan, he was happy to have his efforts applauded in this way.
19.4 It is absolutely true when people say that to promote development in a country and to try to achieve just about  anything, you have to make sure that the girls are educated. We see this time and time and time again in terms of  looking at improvements in health, improvements in the family, improvements in food security and so on. The key, as  Kofi Annan said, is to get the girls educated. Another thing that UNESCO does, which is marvellous, is to promote the  sharing of information and the importance of the media, another thing that I do not take for granted. I have travelled  around many parts of the world where they do not have freedom of speech or freedom of expression, Article 19 of the  Universal Declaration of Human Rights. People are suffering, languishing in prison as we speak because they have been  denied the right of freedom of speech. And, you know, it is not just a luxury. As the Nobel Prize-winning Indian-born  economist Amartya Sen said, “There has never been a famine in a country that enjoys freedom of speech, freedom of  expression”. It is a cornerstone of democracy and development. And so, all of these factors come into the mix of what  UNESCO is about and I applaud your efforts, UNESCO. And I look forward to having this discussion with you now, about  the importance of UNESCO’s role in promoting a culture of peach and working towards sustainable development  because, as I said, it is in the battlefields of the mind that we will do this. On that note, I thank you for your interest and  your attention and we can now open the discussion on the floor. I would like to start with the Minister for Education of the  People’s Republic of China, who is going to give us his perspective on the importance of education in China – a country,  of course, which has improved literacy rates phenomenally over the last few decades. Minister.
(20.1) Mr Yuan (China) (Translation from the Chinese):     Mr President of the General Conference, Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, good morning. The world economy is  recovering slowly, but with instability and uncertainty increasing, sustainable development is facing severe challenges. The  demands of all nations for peace, development and cooperation have never been higher. The theme of this forum is building a  culture of peace and promoting sustainable development, which is highly realistic and pertinent. The promotion of education  for a culture of peace and sustainable development is our consensus and objective. We agree with the mission declared in the  Constitution of UNESCO that “the defences of peace must be constructed” in the minds of men, and we also agree with the  Bonn Declaration, which emphasizes the critical role of education in achieving sustainable development. One important  function of education is to pass along to the younger generations the values that reflect a culture of peace and the idea of  sustainable development. We highly appreciate the fact that UNESCO has always deemed education a priority and has done  sterling work for world peace and sustainable development.
(20.2) China has always valued peace. All countries should be at peace with each other and accept other people’s  differences. Several thousand years of Chinese history have proved that only peace can help to accomplish a long period of  social order and stability for a country and create happiness for its people. Education comes first in the development of peace.  Last July, the Chinese Government promulgated and began to implement the Outline of China’s National Plan for Medium-  and Long-Term Education Reform and Development (2010-2020), emphasizing the promotion of education for international  understanding and intercultural exchange, with the aim of improving Chinese students’ awareness and understanding of  different countries and cultures. Meanwhile, in response to the needs of other peoples to learn Chinese and Chinese cultures,  we have actively established Confucius Institutes and promoted exchanges and interactions between Chinese and foreign  education and culture, so as to improve the mutual understanding and friendship between Chinese and other peoples.
(20.3) Sustainable development is the fundamental strategy of the Chinese Government and an important philosophy for  education reform in China. Over the last 30 years, China’s economy has maintained a high-speed growth, there has been  overall social progress and people’s lives have improved significantly. Meanwhile, issues such as resources and environment  constraints have emerged. Therefore, we should adopt a people-centred policy for sustainable development and pay more  attention to overall coordination. So far, sustainable development has gone beyond the traditional concept of environmental  protection and has brought an even greater responsibility to education. Education for sustainable development has been  generally implemented in schools at all levels and in all areas; over 1,000 schools have been designated ESD pilot schools by  UNESCO. The Fifth Beijing International Forum on ESD was held 10 days ago. Ladies and gentlemen, we all live in the same  homeland of Earth. Faced with both opportunities and challenges, we should think together and make wise decisions on the  future development of the world. Let us make significant efforts in the development of education and contribute more to the  promotion of sustainable development and the accomplishment of world peace and prosperity. Thank you.
21. The Moderator:   Minister Yuan, thank you very much for your perspective on China and your efforts to promote literacy in  schools there. We also have an intervention from the floor from the Minister of Culture from Russia, Mr Alexander  Avdeev. Pozhaluista.
(22.1) Mr Avdeev (Russian Federation) (translation from the Russian):   Distinguished Madam President of the General Conference, distinguished Madam Chair of the Executive Board, distinguished  Madam Director-General, Excellencies, it must be noted that, with the Cold War confrontation between blocs barely over we  are confronted by conflicts that are gathering in strength, and that are rooted in intolerance and violence in interethnic,  interreligious and social relations. Fertile ground for this, alongside ignorance, is provided by mistrust among social groups,  mass emigration, the marginalization of young people, worsening environmental conditions and new, deadly epidemics, the  drugs trade, xenophobia, and so on. All of these ills of course are typical of Russia today. We are a multi-ethnic State, and in  Russia today there are 150 large and small peoples and some 200 languages. Of course, for the ailments I have mentioned  there is a cure but, probably, the most effective is that advocated by UNESCO – the culture of peace and movement in the  interests of development and strengthening the culture of peace, which we consider to be a movement to heal not only people  but also international relations as a whole.
(22.2) I should like to emphasize that the culture of peace also needs defending because culture today, unfortunately, does  not only have an intellectual output, but output that can be sold in the marketplace. As a result, culture is falling under the sway  of the market. Airport novels sell well, as do soap operas on television and horror films and thrillers but it is very important for  us that the culture of peace not depend on the consumer demand of the culture of the consumer society, but that the culture of  peace be attractive, that it defend itself and that in market conditions it not lose out to cultural goods of another sort. For the  culture of peace to be disseminated, it is necessary to use the powerful influence of television. Would television undertake to  popularize the culture of peace in prime time? Would the culture of peace be interrupted every ten to fifteen minutes by  television adverts, impeding concentration? Would the culture of peace and its output be taken up by cinemas which need to  earn money and screen “popcorn” films and not the product of the culture of peace? It all depends on us, it all depends on the  culture policy of individual States, it all depends on priorities and the budget. I should like to stress though that the culture of  peace must absolutely be protected, because in the global streams of world culture, there are cultural goods which, I say again,  sell very well, and make a profit and the culture of peace might not be included in the global cultural stream.
(22.3) Culture and education shape individuals’ intellect and if that process does not include the culture of peace, it will not  be reflected in people’s mentality. The economy, transport, social affairs and other fields are the places in which people act,  but the human intellect is shaped only by culture and education. Accordingly, the culture of peace must be at the heart of the  teaching process which has been quite rightly discussed today.
(22.4) To conclude, I should like once more to emphasize our hopes for the achievement of the strategy advocated by the  UNESCO Director-General, Ms Bokova – the concept of the new twenty-first century humanism. The great Russian writer  Chekov said that if one works for the present, one’s work will be worthless – one must work always looking only to the future.  UNESCO’s significance lies in accelerating the forging in the minds of men and women of precisely that imperative of  sustainable development and the culture of peace. Thank you for your attention.
23. The Moderator (Ms Badawi):  Spassibo, Minister. Thank you. I should just say to everybody that this is a free debate now so do raise your  plaques when you want to intervene. You do not have to speak from a set speech, please. It would be nice to have some  kind of exchange. I am very heartened to see that some plaques have gone up. But, Minister of Culture for Russia, if I  may, you have made a very impassioned plea for the promotion of the culture of peace, but speaking very much in  abstract terms. How would you depict the culture of peace? You have criticized the globalized culture where the content  of television programmes, for instance, is very much market-driven. How would you make programmes or have  newspaper articles that somehow promote a culture of peace? What exactly do you mean? How would you do it?
(24.1) Mr Avdeev (Russian Federation) (translation from the Russian):    I think that I shall answer you on the basis of Russian activities and Russian examples. We are currently going  through a difficult period with a market economy and a culture that has not yet adapted to the market. Social inequality is  rapidly emerging, the gap between rich and poor is widening, culture requires material support, and at the same time the  product of culture is emerging out of the intellectual product, which was not beforehand for sale in my country and was merely  disseminated outside of commercial networks. And now the product of culture is being transformed into a marketable product.  For Russia this now presents a considerable difficulty: culture is not adapted to the market economy. Culture cannot survive in  a market economy. Take Russian cinema as an example. We have wonderful films, they win awards at many international  festivals, they convey the idea of a culture of peace but they do not end up in commercial networks because they are not  profitable, they do not earn back the money spent by the producer, and they go “underground”, to the parallel art circuit for  small elite circles. So I fear that the culture of peace too, if it is not commercially viable, and it probably would not be, will not  end up in the cinema distribution network and will not be broadcast in prime time on television. In many countries, television  has done away with its dependency on ratings and advertising. This is remarkable, and it can be done when countries become  rich and can support sensible, intelligent television and not use advertising as a means to funding it. We are not yet at that  stage.
(24.2) If you are asking me, though, about how to defend the culture of peace, I would say that there is only one way out –  State efforts are necessary, the efforts of governments and elites and, most importantly, financial efforts. Culture should  receive at the very least 2-2.5% of total budget resources. These are the simple answers I would give today on the basis of my  country’s experience.
(26) Mr Al Noaimi (Bahrain) (translation from the Arabic):    Thank you, Madam President, and thank you Ms Badawi for your presence. I am also glad to meet you. Your  moderation of the discussion is extremely important. Indeed, when we talk about a culture of peace, as Minister of Education  in the Kingdom of Bahrain, I see it as a set of values, orientations, behaviour patterns and lifestyles based on rejecting  violence, preventing conflicts and pursuing the best methods, especially in the case of approaches to dialogue and negotiation  among individuals, groups and nations. Building a culture of peace, distinguished guests, is a shared responsibility among  stakeholders, whether governmental or civil that requires cooperation with competent organizations and United Nations  agencies, and I think that UNESCO is the best place for this. The current international context requires us all to identify a  common commitment to building a culture of peace, and to strengthen efforts to establish dialogue among civilizations and  build bridges between different cultures. Indeed, UNESCO has been working in the field of building a culture of peace since its  inception and particularly since the early 1990s. In the past century, UNESCO has made a culture of peace a vital field for  systematic activity based on the link between human rights, democracy, peace and development. UNESCO continues to  provide technical assistance to Member States, and we are grateful for those efforts. In terms of education, UNESCO also has
57  a vital role to play. Dear President of the General Conference, ladies and gentlemen, I believe that we, as humanity, must  integrate peace-related educational programmes and a culture of peace into the curriculum and review all curricula to meet the  needs of human rights values, the right to co-exist and the eradication of hatred, thereby strengthening a culture of peace. I  believe, from an educational perspective, that we must work as an international community in order to remove violence and  stop schools and educational institutions from being used as a means to achieve political goals. I think this is very important,  as UNESCO should play a leading role in building culture and supporting States in building national capacities; this is a critical  role that it has taken upon itself. In Bahrain, we are working with UNESCO and taking considerable steps to promote a culture  of peace within schools. Thank you Madam.
(28) Mr Al-Joufi (Yemen) (translation from the Arabic):  Thank you very much. Those who are aware of the importance of peace are those who lack peace. I represent one  of the countries that are in need of peace more than ever. I am well aware that the discussion today concerns dialogue,  whether it be dialogue between people or intercultural dialogue, and I am fully aware that the only way of making peace is to  consolidate the culture of dialogue and the culture of peace – as stated by the Russian Minister of Culture – and I understand  perfectly today, more than ever, that there is a close relationship between the economy, peoples’ needs and peace. I  understand perfectly well that in the future our sons’ and daughters’ generations may be victims of war as a result of the failure  of the generations before them to deal with the culture of dialogue and realize the importance of peace. Since biblical times  and the dialogue with the Prophet Solomon, we in Yemen have used dialogue, but in the modern era this dialogue is perhaps  lacking and I am therefore convinced that UNESCO’s role is vital in building a culture of peace among the generations, by  establishing today, here in this room, in the presence of leaders from the economic elite, a close relationship between the  economy, dialogue and peace, as well as education. I would also like to highlight what the Bahraini Minister of Education said,  that there must be a strong voice from UNESCO insisting that schools are places of reflection and dialogue, far removed from  conflict and war, which applies to all parties. Everyone should strive to keep the culture of hatred far from schools. Perhaps the  side effects that we have seen recently with the growth of Al-Qaida in many areas at the global level and its destructive impact  on the world are the result of the presence of the culture of extremism and terrorism. So, instead there must be a culture of  peace, and I emphasize what the Russian Minister of Culture said in his speech. Thank you very much.
(30) Mr Al-Joufi (Yemen) (translation from the Arabic):  Thank you Ms Badawi. I think that people expect the future to give them the economic potential for better living con- ditions. I conducted a study on the subject, and there is a very strong correlation between economic conditions and extremist  tendencies. Extremist tendencies lead to a lack of dialogue and to war. In terms of the situation in my country, I am very wor- ried indeed, because the parties may not have reached a good basis for dialogue, for earnest dialogue in order to find a way  out of the current problem. The problem is not only an economic one, nor is it purely political, but it is a complex one. It is a po-
58  litical and economic problem rather than a question of freedom and democracy. Freedom and democracy are very important  and must exist for all people, women and men alike. However, people’s economic needs are not being addressed and perhaps  what is happening today is a result of the indirect global economic crisis in the world, in addition to the presence of a particular  culture and the increasing number of inhabitants and proliferation of the population, together with the lack of resources that  spark issues of hatred and the lack of justice or access to power in any way to gain access to money. This is an existing prob- lem, with total confirmation that we need to take into account economic aspects as well as freedom, freedom of all people, es- pecially freedom for women, giving full rights.
31. The Moderator:   Thank you.
32. The President:   Excuse me just for a second. The President of Gabon and the President of the Republic of Côte d’Ivoire are  leaving and I would like to thank them for their participation. Thank you very much.  The meeting is suspended briefly while the President and the Director-General  take leave of the Presidents of Côte d’Ivoire and Gabon.
(34) Mr Alsebail (Saudi Arabia) (translation from the Arabic):  Many thanks to the excellent journalist, Zeinab Badawi; we take pride in her being from our Arab region, as she is  certainly a model for a lot of girls who aspire to a better future. With regard to peace and a culture of peace, our problems stem  from poverty and war. It is not possible to eliminate poverty by giving people money, but by training people to become self- reliant. As to war, there are many issues in different regions of the world and occupied territories in other regions; we have to  make great efforts here at UNESCO to meet all these needs because without attaining peace we cannot achieve development,  we cannot maintain our culture, we cannot take cognizance that it is possible to add great value to humanity. Then comes  dialogue; we in Saudi Arabia have had a dialogue of peace for a while, taking both sides: there is internal dialogue between  the country’s young men and women to learn the art of dialogue and rapprochement among themselves, considering the  different cultural regions in Saudi Arabia, with their customs and traditions, as well as a dialogue of peace on a larger scale.  Saudi Arabia supports UNESCO’s programme for the Culture of Dialogue and Peace, and we have very significant experience  that could perhaps benefit other countries in this framework: dialogue between young people in Saudi Arabia and among other  countries. Each year, a large group of young men and women travel from Saudi Arabia to Brazil, China and the Republic of  Korea, in the framework of programmes with a number of these countries, because we are talking about the future, and the  future is for young people. In fact, if these young people are convinced about such issues, we can reach a higher level than  through dialogue between those of us who are of a certain age. Our experience is important, but it is important to develop the  truth inside the minds of these young people to achieve a better future for humanity. Thank you.
(36) Mr Alsebail (Saudi Arabia) (translation from the Arabic):  By my side, here, is Ms Haya Al-Awwad, Undersecretary of the Ministry of Education and as you pointed out, she  can pilot a plane. We also have Ms Noura Al-Fayez here, Deputy Minister of Education. I think that it is very important for
59  women to drive cars, but I believe that women’s intellectual leadership and awareness in Saudi Arabia is truly important and  driving cars is a procedural matter that will be dealt with soon, God willing. Thank you very much.
(38.1) Mr Farah (Sudan) (translation from the Arabic):  Thank you very much, Ms Zeinab Badawi. Thank you, Madam President of the General Conference. First, I would  like to say how happy I am and excited to be participating in this dialogue under the auspices of UNESCO, which makes a  valuable contribution to spreading the culture of peace and sustainable development. Undoubtedly, one of the reasons for my  happiness is personal, in that my country is represented by the prestigious Sudanese-British media presenter Ms Zeinab  Badawi, daughter of Mohammed-Khair el Badawi, one of the members of the first generation of Sudanese and Arab  broadcasters, who worked in the BBC Arabic Service in the early 1950s, at least 15 years before Zeinab was born. I am happy  to see her moderate this discussion so brilliantly in English. Her global renown fortunately reflects the stature that has been  enjoyed by Sudanese women in our society since the dawn of time. Contrary to what has been rumoured in some circles,  Sudanese society is keen to give women their full rights, including political rights. It is historically known that the Sudanese  civilization is one of the world’s first civilizations to have enabled women’s empowerment, in every sense of the word. Queens  were historically known in irrigated civilizations as “Alkendakat” and centuries before the modern era, in ancient Sudan there  were women who had absolute political power, known as “Kendakat”.
(38.2) I will return now to the main theme of this discussion: UNESCO’s contribution to spreading a culture of peace and  sustainable development. I say with honour and pride that Sudan’s pioneering experience in reaching peace and ending  conflicts and disputes through dialogue, as Ms Badawi kindly mentioned, resulted in the end of the longest civil war in Africa,  through dialogue and negotiations between the Government of Sudan and the “Sudan People’s Liberation Movement” of  South Sudan, under the peace agreement signed in Nairobi in 2005. It also resulted, as you are aware, in other benefits; the  referendum on the report about the fate of South Sudan, of which the whole world witnessed the creation, was conducted in  good spirits and a healthy atmosphere of responsibility and tolerance, leading, as you know, to the creation of the fifty-fourth  African State. The full transparency of the process was witnessed by the whole world. We are proud to give to the world this  pioneering experience in the potential of reaching peace and building peace through dialogue and negotiations. With regard to  UNESCO in particular, Sudan may be described as a post-conflict country, a poor country and a country within the scope of  “Priority Africa”, and UNESCO is therefore invited to do everything in its power to support development projects that will work  on the sustainability of peace in Sudan for future generations. Thank you very much.
39. The Moderator:   Shukran jazīlan and thank you for your kind comments. Yes, the Minister is right when he talks about the  ancient Kingdom of Kush: in the eighth century B.C., the kings of Kush governed ancient Egypt for the best part of a  century and were very much a regional super-power in northern Sudan. For those of you who are not aware of this, it has  more pyramids than Egypt, something like 234 pyramids in northern Sudan. So, UNESCO knows all about this centre of  a great ancient civilization, and is, I hope, encouraging the Sudanese authorities to preserve this marvellous national  heritage, a subject very close to my heart. Please make your statements much shorter than this in future. Do not abuse  my generosity as moderator. Let us move further south to the Gambia, whose representative wishes to speak.
40.1 Ms Faye (Gambia):   My name is Fatou Lamin Faye, the Minister of Basic and Secondary Education in the Gambia. It gives me great  pleasure to contribute to an issue that is fundamental to progress and the survival of humanity. We are aware that  access to education is essential for attaining a culture of peace but certainly not sufficient. This is so because formal and  non-formal educational training programmes ought to be available to people at all levels, and peace education must be  included to cover tolerance, respect for human rights and democracy, international and intercultural understanding,  cultural, religious and linguistic diversity. Madam Moderator, the Gambia has recently incorporated peace education into  the basic education curriculum and materials have been developed taking cognizance of the abolition of corporal  punishment and gender-based violence in schools. This was done because we believe that the concept of peace must  be instilled in the young mind. Over the years, my Ministry, together with youth and civil society organizations, has  actively engaged in peace education activities. Youth organizations such as the Youth Ambassadors for Peace and the  National Patriotic Students Association work with schools on peace education. These organizations engage in peaceful  means or processes that respond to the social, gender, spiritual, cultural, economic, environmental and political aspects  of society. They place a high premium on values that focus on respect for all life, rejection of violence, sharing with  others, listening to and understanding others, preserving the earth and rediscovering solidarity with our neighbours and  society. Thus, the organizations engage youth and children through school-based peace activities, summer camps and  leadership training programmes geared towards promoting peace, tolerance and understanding of our diversities.
40.2 Civil society organizations such as the National Civic Education Council and The Human Rights Centre, to  name but two, have worked with my Ministry to draw up teaching and learning materials on universal values of human  rights, the promotion of a culture of peace, non-violence and tolerance. Schools in the Gambia have been encouraged to  establish UNESCO clubs, and peace and order and non-curricular clubs to promote respect for values. These values of  peace and tolerance are an essential part of quality basic education. Basic education imparts not only the skills of literacy  and numeracy, but also values and attitudes needed for self-development, improving the quality of life and facilitating  active participation in society. Most importantly, basic education provides the ability to engage in lifelong learning, giving  people the power to think, to form opinions and to work towards the promotion of peace, tolerance and universal respect  for human rights. Madam Moderator, you will agree that building a systemic culture of peace requires committed efforts  by educators, researchers and other members of society. It requires a change in attitude, a difficult process that will not  happen overnight. This is where the role of knowledge will be crucial. Education can provide people with information, but  most essential is its appropriate application. This information must be transformed into knowledge that is beneficial. Only  then will people begin to change their mindset, attitude and behaviour, and that will help us stem the tide of conflict and  intolerance. I thank you for your attention.
41. The Moderator:   Thank you very much, Minister, for that very thorough overview of education in the Gambia. Trinidad and  Tobago, your plaque has been up for a very long time, and you now have the floor. Please keep your comments brief.
42. Mr Gopeesingh (Trinidad and Tobago):   Thank you very much, Madam Moderator. I am Tim Gopeesingh, the Minister of Education for Trinidad and  Tobago. I am a medical doctor. I was a professor in medicine at the university but I am now focused on education.  Distinguished Presidents, Heads of State, my country, Trinidad and Tobago, with a population of approximately
15 million, is one of 15 English-speaking countries in the Caribbean, along with about twenty French- and Dutch- speaking countries. We have no wars within the Caribbean and Latin America but an increasing restlessness among our  youth, as is evident elsewhere around the world. We belong to the GRULAC group of countries, which has not been  experiencing wars but a great deal of instability with regular changes of governments, which eventually or even shortly  may lead to conflict. This arises because of the citizens’ need to reduce their poverty and alleviate their needs, and also  illiteracy. Illiteracy rates are very high among the adult population, amounting to about a third of this population in my  country, and this adult illiteracy is what we are moving to reduce. We have a seamless education programme; we have  universal primary and secondary education in most of the countries, as was made clear by one of our speakers, the  Prime Minister of Grenada, Mr Tillman Thomas. But we need to prevent wars and continue sustainable peace and  development. So, we need to refocus our education efforts not just on academic subjects alone but on the realization of  the full potential of the child, promoting the citizenship and character development that have been lacking in our schools  for a long time, moral and spiritual values and ethics, competencies in information and communication technology (ICT),  visual and performing arts, and sports and physical education, as the President of Hungary said. In closing, in a place  where culture is a driving force of our social, economic and political life, because Trinidad and Tobago is a multicultural  society, very plural, with antecedent populations coming from all parts of the world – India, China, Africa, Europe and  North America – we still have much work to do in mainstreaming our culture within the Caribbean. It is central to our  development and for full gender parity and equity. Girls are outstripping boys in academic performance in the Caribbean,  so we have to find methodologies for bringing the boys back into focus so that we do not have this restlessness, and we  need to mainstream our education in terms of technology development to ensure that we train people, young men and  women, for the workplace. We have defined our workplace needs and we need to move in tandem, training for what we  really need. So, in summary, technical and vocational education, training in moral and spiritual values, citizenship and  character development, and creation of jobs for the restless young men and women, ensuring that we have the  workplace and the workforce aligned with our training and development. Thank you.
43. The Moderator:   Thank you very much, you were very admirably brief there and to the point. I have here Congo. The floor is  yours and briefly, if you could.
44. M. Abena (Congo) :   Merci, Madame la Présidente. Après avoir écouté ce matin les interventions d’illustres et respectables  personnalités, nous reconnaissons que l’éducation est le principal moyen d’asseoir la paix et le développement durable.  Dans sa déclaration, d’ailleurs, l’UNESCO l’avait déjà reconnu. C’est pour cela que la délégation du Congo propose que  soit intégrée, de façon générale dans les programmes aussi bien scolaires qu’universitaires, une culture de la paix. Nous  avons entendu, ici, que dans certains pays, cela se faisait déjà. Nous pourrions nous appuyer sur cette expérience,  éventuellement sous la coordination de l’UNESCO. Des spécialistes pourraient se pencher sur le contenu d’un tel  programme, qui pourrait également s’accompagner d’une formation du personnel enseignant. Je souhaite vivement que  cette proposition devienne réalité à l’avenir, un avenir que je vois très proche. Je vous remercie.
45. The Moderator:  Merci. Thank you very much indeed. Let me just turn to the gentleman seated behind me. Prime Minister Tillman  Thomas of Grenada, we heard your comments earlier on. I just wondered if you wanted to react in any way to the  interventions you have heard from the floor. I mean, we have heard some people refer to how the financial crisis is  creating upheavals and increasing social inequities and inequalities. Crisis? Or also an opportunity for countries to  actually see they must meet the needs of the people as they become more vocal in making their demands?
46. Mr Thomas (Prime Minister of Grenada):  Thank you, Madam Moderator. Yes, I believe that disadvantaged people tend to get involved in a conflict with  authority, or they could be used. Therefore the economic situation is vital. I believe that we have sufficient resources in  the world for people to live comfortably. But it is a whole system, a question of values, of humanity. Everything should be  geared towards advancing humanity: education, the political system, the NGOs. This is where I think the problem lies.  We should be a value-driven world and humanity should be the priority. Therefore, the political parties involved in the  process of gaining control of a State should be value-driven. Human rights and human values should be prominent. So,  too, the NGOs and the whole State apparatus, all should be focused on promoting human values because if we do not,  where we have disparity, as someone mentioned before, people could be used, and when they are in a state of  economic depression, they could always blame others in society, and that could create conflict in itself. But if people are  properly spiritually oriented and have the right values, they will find solutions to the problem. I think we all have to focus  on values. In particular, respecting human rights and making values a part of our total system. Journalists have a major  role to play, as was mentioned by the representative from Russia. It should be part of the educational process so that we  see the human person as paramount in whatever we are doing, irrespective of race or background. So I think UNESCO  is doing an excellent job. We need to focus, to get the political directorate in particular, I believe, to focus on the values  that we are trying to promote.
47. The Moderator:  Is the Prime Minister of Benin still with us? I know you made your intervention on behalf of the government  because the President could not be with us, but one theme that has come up from the floor and also from the earlier  speeches is this issue of youth and needing to address the demands of youth. We saw very much in the Arab world at  least, the countries which have gone through upheavals, that it is very much youth, the young people, who are in the  vanguard. I think a lot of people are asking, what about African youth? Where are they in this mix? Are they using social  media to have a dialogue in terms of making greater demands of their leaders in the way that we saw in the Arab world?  Where is African youth?
48. M. Koupaki (Premier Ministre du Bénin) :   Merci. Ce qui selon moi ressort des différentes interventions, c’est que tout le monde partage en réalité l’objectif  primordial d’une préservation de la paix pour un développement accéléré, mais qu’il existe différentes façons d’aborder  la question. Je retiens, essentiellement, le rôle majeur que l’UNESCO doit jouer dans la mise en place d’un  enseignement axé sur une culture de la paix. Comment, alors, cela peut-il s’organiser ? C’est la question que la  Conférence générale devra trancher. Certains pays comptent une chaire UNESCO dans l’une ou plusieurs de leurs  universités ; au Bénin, il y en a sept. Je me demande si la promotion de cet enseignement ne devrait pas passer par ce  canal. Bien entendu, il faut que l’éducation de base comporte également cette orientation, peut-être à travers l’éducation  civique en général. Dans notre pays, en tout cas, la demande de paix est une demande forte et nous sommes moins  confrontés à ce problème-là. Nous avons, en revanche, beaucoup de problèmes de développement, et c’est dans ce  domaine, avec les changements que l’on observe dans le monde ces dernières années et plus récemment, d’ailleurs,  que l’on compte sur une importante contribution de la part de l’UNESCO. Je vous remercie.
49. The Moderator:   Merci. Thank you. The Under-Secretary of State of Hungary, do you wish to make some final comments just to  wrap up this session, and then we shall continue again after lunch? You have heard a variety of opinions. In countries  like Hungary for instance, we have seen that the role of civil society organizations is one that has become very  developed, and so you have this bottom-up promotion of values and people coalescing around a new identity after the  fall of the Berlin wall.
50. Mr Hóvári (Hungary):   Thank you very much for this opportunity to say a few words on that issue. You know, in most, or all, of the  Central European countries, we are very education-orientated. We inherit our good education from the past. In our region,  our Queen, Mária Terézia, introduced compulsory education in the eighteenth century, in the 1770s. And all the villages  built schools. So we have a long tradition and owing to that, we had well-educated people who could be very successful  everywhere, and one day emigrate to the United States of America or other parts of the world. With this tradition behind  us, we try to contribute to the dissemination of this kind of thinking all around the world. In my country, from the early
1960s until the mid-1990s, we provided scholarships to more than 20,000 students from the developing world. When we
62  are travel around Africa, we find ministers and important persons in the leadership who studied in my country – and not  only in Hungary, but in other parts of the so-called former Eastern Bloc. That was our contribution and we believe it  should now be continued. to find new ways in which we can provide a good education and scholarships for the young  generation of Africa and different parts of the world. is very important to us and we are working on it.
51. The Moderator:   Thank you very much, Under-Secretary of State. Well, what a discussion we have had, ending with the  Empress Maria Theresa. We have heard about Tchaikovsky and Russian films and Russian literature – I am a big fan of  Russian literature. And extremism in Yemen, and the kings and queens of Kush from the Sudan. I think we have had  quite a panorama. Also the intricacies of secondary education in the Gambia – we must not forget that. But we will  continue our discussions on how you all, and how UNESCO, can try to promote a culture of peace, which also, of course,  contributes to sustainable development. After what I hope will be a very good lunch, we will also have some more  keynote speeches and, for the moment, I thank you for your attention. From me, Zeinab Badawi, goodbye.
52. The President:   Thank you very much. What an uplifting morning we have had, ladies and gentlemen. We are continuing with  our next plenary at 3 p.m. sharp. We are going to welcome the Prime Minister of Kenya, the President of the Republic of  Serbia and the First Lady of the Dominican Republic and continue our conversation. Thank you very much.   The meeting rose at 12.55 p.m.  La séance est levée à 12 h 55   Se levanta la sesión a las 12.55  Заседание закрывается в 12.55  بعد الظهر ١٢,٥٥رفعت اسلسة يف الساعة    会议于 12 时 55 分结束