1. The President:   Your Excellencies, ladies and gentlemen, it is a great honour for me to welcome you here again. This is our fifth  plenary meeting. We have a very interesting theme for our Leaders’ Forum and I think the beauty of our exchange is that  it has been thorough, very open and honest. We have heard interesting voices and messages from different parts of the  world and have had very good and interactive reactions to them. This is what we are hoping to see again today.  UNESCO is really a unique place, and I am most gratified to see so many great poets and writers among the delegates  and ambassadors here. The Romanian Ambassador, whom I welcome, is a very famous writer. We have the  Ambassador of Portugal, who is a very famous poet. We encounter all these creative minds and artists here at this  General Conference. As I said in my acceptance speech, the General Conference is an occasion for seeing each other  and celebrating each other. Yesterday, as you will remember, I said in my introductory speech that it was a special day:  Diwali, the Festival of Lights. Furthermore, the Indian Ambassador is himself a poet. We were talking about culture  diplomacy as the poetry of diplomacy. At night before I went to sleep I was reading his book and I found a beautiful poem  and would like to dedicate this poem to the theme that we are continuing today. It is called “The Mantra for Peace”,  written by Mr Kapil Sibal. “For survival in this violent world the system needs reform; We must embrace non-violence in  all its different forms; Our violence with nature has brought negative returns; Spectre of global warming adding to our  concerns; Terrorism is on the rise, founded on cults and hate; To deal with it effectively, we need to cogitate; Violent  means breed violence, leave wounds and open scars; A route we have adopted will not take us too far; We need an  open dialogue, allay unfounded fears; Harp on universal values all religions hold so dear.” And there is more in the same  vein. I thought this poem would be a beautiful way to start our session. Mr Sibal is the Minister of Human Resources of  India, and he is the head of the delegation here at the General Conference. I wish to dedicate this poem to our theme  today. And now, ladies and gentlemen, I have the great honour to welcome His Excellency Mr Johnson Toribiong,  President of the Republic of Palau and His Excellency Mr Kris Peeters, Minister-President of the Government of  Flanders, Belgium, who are here with us today. Yesterday we already used this interesting format, inviting professional  presenters to our debate. So first I would like to introduce and give the floor to Mr Stephen Cole, Senior Presenter, Al- Jazeera English in Doha and London. He will be our moderator and presenter. It is a great honour to welcome you here,  having seen you everywhere in the world. You have said yourself that it is important for the world media too. So, thank  you very much. Stephen, please take the floor.
2. The Moderator (Stephen Cole, Senior Presenter, Al Jazeera English):   Thank you very much, Madam President, Katalin, and it is wonderful to see you again, a great friend, after so  long. I also thank Zeinab for yesterday. I was not here to see her as moderator, but I understand that she did extremely  well and that does not surprise me. Allow me to say a few words. Yesterday, you talked about peace; you talked about  education, science, youth, gender equality, sports and supporting democratic processes. That is an awful lot to achieve,  and the only way, in my experience, that you achieve any of this is through leadership. I would like to repeat David  Cameron’s description of leadership, which affects you all in this room. He says that so much of his leadership – and I  am sure that Katalin would say the same, and Irina as well – is about unleashing your leadership; giving everyone who  wants to seize it the opportunity, the support and, above all, the freedom to get things done; giving everyone who wants  to believe it the confidence that working hard and perhaps most importantly taking responsibility will be rewarded, not  punished. This is what leadership is about. We have so many leaders here and are just about to meet one of them, who  will recognize that definition as a process of social influence in which one person – one person – can enlist the aid and  support of others in the accomplishment of a common task. That, as far as I am concerned, is really what UNESCO is all  about. Now, having said that, it is a great honour for me to introduce the President of Palau. Mr Johnson Toribiong holds  a Jurist Doctor degree and a Master of Laws degree from the School of Law at the University of Washington. Upon his  return to Palau, he started a career as a public servant, becoming a defence lawyer and later a part-time judge. He is a  former Ambassador of Palau to the Taiwan Province of China. He became President in 2009, the second time that he  ran for office. As President, his noted actions include the decision to accept former Guantanamo detainees in Palau, a  brave decision then and now, and to declare the islands of Palau a “shark sanctuary” – so expect a speech with a lot of  bite. Please welcome the President of the Republic of Palau, Mr Johnson Toribiong.
3.1 Mr Toribiong (President of Palau):   Thank you for your kind introduction. Good morning and greetings from the people of the Republic of Palau and  the Pacific small island developing States.
3.2 Madam President of the 36th session of the General Conference, Madam Chair of the Executive Board, Madam  Director-General of UNESCO, Excellencies, distinguished delegates, ladies and gentlemen, I am deeply humbled by the  honour of having been invited by Director-General Irina Bokova of UNESCO to address this eminent Leaders’ Forum and  the 36th session of the General Conference of UNESCO on behalf of the Republic of Palau and the Pacific small island  developing States known as “PSIDS”. I am truly most grateful to avail myself of this historic opportunity to be the voice of  the Pacific small island developing States in this international forum to address the important question before us: “How  does UNESCO contribute to building a culture of peace and to sustainable development?”
3.3 Culture is shaped and evolved through people’s interactions with other people and their own environment. As a  son of the Pacific islands, my views on peace and sustainable development are fashioned and coloured by the culture I  grew up in and influenced by my education and experience. Historically, the cultures which evolved in the Pacific island  societies were shaped by the limited land areas they lived on, the seemingly endless expanse of ocean surrounding  them, and their relative isolation. But today, as is happening everywhere, our island cultures are being impacted by pop  cultures of industrialized nations. Indeed we now live in a global village, and cultures all over the world are undergoing a  transformation with the impact of modern technologies which facilitate constant interactions between peoples across the  globe through modern means of transportation and instant telecommunications. These technologies have brought about  an explosion of information. We now live in an age of instant dissemination of information. As a result, our diverse  cultures are becoming more similar in some basic ways. It is in this age of instant dissemination of information that the  theme of this Conference should be considered.
3.4 The pursuit of world peace has been the goal of world leaders, no less today than in the past. But peace has  been an elusive goal. Building a culture of peace is a daunting task in view of the continuous eruptions of conflicts,  violence and war in today’s world and throughout history, in spite of efforts by political, religious and other leaders to  keep and promote peace in the world. This fact should not discourage us; it should challenge us to constantly consider  how UNESCO, an international organization, may find more effective ways to contribute in some way to building a culture  of peace. UNESCO stands for international collaboration dedicated to supporting the cause of peace and harmony  through the promotion of educational, scientific and cultural activities around the world. UNESCO should utilize modern  means of communication technologies to build an international culture of peace. In this world of diversity and conflict, the  higher moral value of tolerance is one of the most critical components of the culture of peace. UNESCO should launch a  campaign against all forms of discrimination, such as racial, ethnic and religious discrimination, in its programmes and  activities at the regional and international levels.
3.5 Ladies and gentlemen, good governance is another critical component of building a culture of peace. Where  political leadership is repressive, tyrannical or corrupt, a culture of peace cannot flourish. Without good governance, the  seeds of the culture of peace cannot take root. We know that good governance is based upon respect for human rights  and freedom, the rule of law and the democratic principle that government derives its powers from the consent of the  governed. UNESCO and its Member States must promote these values and principles of good governance as a  prerequisite to building a culture of peace. Disputes within a country or between countries inevitably arise. But when they  are not resolved peacefully, peace gives way to violence and war. Peaceful dispute resolution founded upon the rule of  law that is just and fair must be recognized and promoted by UNESCO and its Member States as another important  component of building a culture of peace. At the same time, the culture of peace cannot be sustained where there is  poverty, disease, inequality and illiteracy. The United Nations Millennium Development Goals (MDGs) to eradicate or  reduce poverty and hunger, diseases, illiteracy and gender inequality, among other things, are in line with UNESCO’s  effort to contribute to building an international culture of peace and sustainable development.
3.6 The role of UNESCO as the United Nations agency responsible for coordinating the Education for All (EFA)  Action Plan, a programme launched at the World Education Forum in Dakar in 2000, should be to place emphasis on the  fact that education of our youth is where the building of the culture of peace should begin. The UNESCO motto is “since  wars begin in the minds of men, it is in the minds of men that the defences of peace must be constructed”. With this in  mind, the culture of peace should be cultivated through educational, scientific and cultural programmes, projects and  activities of UNESCO at regional and international levels. It is through education that the right values can be cultivated in  the minds of men, especially the young. From our experience in the Pacific, for example, we have promoted mutual  understanding and cooperation, tolerance and appreciation for our diversity through our regional organizations and  activities, such as the Pacific Island Forum, regional fisheries organizations, Pacific Festival of Arts, Pacific Games and  other subregional organizations, which have engendered a culture of harmony and peace in our region. We must move  beyond our present horizon to strengthen our traditional and historic relationships and develop new plans and strategies  to effectively activate cooperation and partnerships between UNESCO and its Member States to promote the culture of  peace.
3.7 Ladies and gentlemen, besides cultivating the culture of peace, how may we contribute to sustainable  development? Peace and sustainable development are intertwined and interdependent. They have a symbiotic  relationship; development is never sustainable where there is no peace. Besides the critical importance of peace to  sustainable development, a more pressing issue of great concern to the Pacific small island developing States is climate  change, especially the threat of the rising sea level caused by global warming. The ocean, which has been our generous  source of livelihood, is now rising in rage to threaten our security and survival. Some low-lying islands in the Pacific are  faced with the real possibility of being swallowed up by the rising sea level. The rising sea level is a tsunami of biblical  magnitude in slow motion. Climate change is caused by the high volume of greenhouse gas emissions into the  atmosphere, for which the small island developing States are the least responsible and yet are among the most  threatened. Today we are disappointed by the United Nations’ recent report that the current effort to mitigate climate  change falls short of reaching the vital goal of keeping global warming below two degrees Celsius above the pre- industrial levels. In the debate at the United Nations General Assembly last September, I raised the legal issue of  transboundary harm under international law as to whether those nations which have contributed most to climate change  should be held responsible. My country and others similarly situated are now in the process of preparing a resolution to  be introduced in the United Nations General Assembly to request the International Court of Justice to render an advisory  opinion on the applicability of the doctrine of transboundary harm in the case of climate change. Regardless of the  outcome of this legal approach and the debate regarding the causes and consequences of climate change, we ask  UNESCO to use its scientific resources and influence to address the threats of climate change.
3.8 Ladies and gentlemen, furthermore, development cannot be sustainable when it is based upon unrestrained  exploitation of resources. We urge UNESCO and its Member States to cultivate a culture of conservation. Our oceans  and land resources must be protected from unrestrained exploitation. We must all be good stewards of our environment.  Exploitation of resources must be balanced by the culture of conservation. Mahatma Gandhi said it well when he said:  “Earth provides enough to satisfy every man’s need, but not every man’s greed”. The capacity of our planet Earth to  provide enough to satisfy every man’s need has been stretched to the limit. The world population this year will top seven  billion. UNESCO must lead the way forward to encourage the use of science and technology to improve production and  conservation of the food and water supply for our people. This is critical to ensuring sustainable development and the  survival of humanity.
3.9 Ladies and gentlemen, another component of sustainable development is the use of green energy. Green  energy and green industry must continue to be encouraged. Transition from reliance on fossil fuels to renewable energy  is a win-win policy. It mitigates climate change and promotes the use of an infinite supply of renewable energy. UNESCO  and its Member States should utilize their resources, including modern technologies, through educational, scientific and  cultural programmes and activities to contribute to building a culture of peace and sustainable development. We in Palau  and the Pacific small island developing States are committed to building a culture of peace and sustainable development  in our small ways. In Palau we have the following initiatives in place. We have introduced the Micronesian Challenge, a  regional environmental conservation initiative to conserve 30% of our reefs and 20% of our land to keep them in their  natural state. We have established the world’s first shark sanctuary to help preserve the health of our oceans in keeping  with our tradition of conservation, known in our language as bul. We have a protected area network, known as “PAN”,  with an environmental programme to protect our fragile environment from over-exploitation by collecting “green fees”  from tourists to fund the protection of these areas. We have adopted the 1972 World Heritage Convention safeguarding  tangible cultural heritage and are seeking to nominate sites to the World Heritage List. We have a UNESCO Man and  Biosphere (MAB) Reserve in 2005, the Ngarmeduu Bay, which shows that people and nature can coexist in harmony  and peace. We have supported a programme known as “the Micronesian Voyaging Society” through the Palau  Community College to preserve the practice of traditional navigation from the knowledge passed on from the late  renowned grand master navigator, Pius Mau Pialug from the Micronesian island of Satawal, using stars, winds and  ocean currents to make transoceanic voyages. This grand master navigator commanded the epic voyage of the  internationally famed Hawaiian canoe, known as Hokulea, from Hawaii to Tahiti, retracing the migration of ancient  Polynesians from Tahiti to Hawaii. He passed this knowledge on to his son who has been hired to teach this ancient  traditional art of navigation at the Palau Community College.
3.10 In October of this year, Palau ratified UNESCO’s 2003 Convention for the Safeguarding of the Intangible  Cultural Heritage. Palau is a member of a regional organization of the Pacific under the Parties to the Nauru Agreement,  known as PNA, to regulate the harvesting and conservation of our tuna resource to ensure its sustainable development.  Palau is an active advocate of the Millennium Development Goals (MDGs). Finally, the Pacific supports the Universal  Declaration on Archives.
3.11 Ladies and gentlemen, since this is the first appearance of a representative from the Pacific to address this  session of the General Conference of UNESCO, please bear with me a few more minutes.
3.12 Excellencies, honourable delegates, ladies and gentlemen, I strongly recommend that UNESCO recognizes the  need for Pacific small island developing States to interact with the rest of the world in all areas of human and national  development, especially within the framework of UNESCO. By increasing the role and participation of the Pacific small  island developing States in UNESCO, these States will not only realize their full potential as responsible members of the  international community, they will make UNESCO truly representative of the views of its Members.
3.13 May this Leaders’ Forum and the General Conference of UNESCO be remembered in history as the first to give  important roles in key organs of UNESCO to Pacific small island developing States. In this regard, I would make at this  time a formal request for your full support for the candidature of Papua New Guinea to UNESCO’s Executive Board. I  thank you for your favourable consideration of this request. Moreover, the Republic of Palau is a candidate for a seat on  the World Heritage Committee at the 18th General Assembly of the State Parties to the Convention from 7 to 9  November of this year. My country, Palau, is a member of the Pacific small island developing States, a key priority group  in UNESCO’s Medium-Term Strategy 2008-2013. Thus I am also requesting your full support for Palau’s candidature of  Ms Faustina Rehuher-Marugg, Minister of Community and Cultural Affairs of the Republic of Palau, to this post. I thank  you for your support. Madam President, Excellencies, honourable delegates, I thank you for your patience,  understanding and kind consideration.
4. The Moderator:   Mr President, thank you very much indeed for that wonderful opening speech and for setting a marvellous tone  for the day. There are parallels, I think, and I do not want to put words in the President’s mouth, with the Maldives and  some of the initiatives that they have tried. I like the idea of your “PAN”, the protected area network which is paid for by  tourists, a sort of “green tax”, which should work well. I was fortunate enough to scuba dive with the President of the  Maldives at his famous underwater cabinet meeting, which raised the profile of climate change rather well. Mr President,  if you are considering doing something similar, I am quite prepared to dive with you as well! Now, we are only going to  have two speakers addressing you from the podium; I would like the other interventions for the rest of the morning to  come from the floor. We agreed yesterday that the world is in turmoil and – a wonderful expression – there is an “acute  peace deficit”. Please welcome now Mr Kris Peeters. In 2004, after a career as a lawyer and a fiscal counsellor, Mr  Peeters was called upon to take a seat in the Flemish Government, as Minister of Public Works, Energy, Environment  and Nature. Since 2006, Mr Peeters has been a Municipal Councillor in his home town of Puurs. In 2007, he was  appointed Minister-President of the Flemish Government and Flemish Minister of Institutional Reform, Administrative  Affairs, Foreign Policy, Media, Tourism, Ports, Agriculture, Sea Fisheries and Rural Policy, which is one of the biggest
89  briefs I have ever seen for one man! In 2009, he was appointed Minister-President of the Flemish Government and  Flemish Minister for Economy, Foreign Policy, Agriculture and Rural Policy. So please welcome, Mr Kris Peeters,  Minister-President of the Government of Flanders, Belgium.
5.1 Mr Peeters (Minister-President of the Government of Flanders, Belgium):   Thank you. Madam President of the General Conference, Madam Director-General, Excellencies, dear  colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, I feel honoured to be able to participate in this first-ever Leaders’ Forum. I would like  to commend UNESCO for the choice of the two central themes. A culture of peace and sustainable development are  essential preconditions for safeguarding the future of our planet. Moreover, they demand a global approach by the  international community. UNESCO is the right organization to address these issues because of its broad cultural,  scientific and educational experience and expertise, and because of its mission: to build peace in the minds of men and  women.
5.2 In the 66 years since UNESCO was founded, the world has changed dramatically. Technological progress has  turned our planet into a global village. However, technology cannot solve everything. Technology cannot bring about  peace. Peace has to be man-made. To put it in the words of Martin Luther King: “We’ve learned to fly the air like birds,  we’ve learned to swim the sea like fish. Yet, we haven’t learned how to walk the earth like brothers and sisters”. In the  face of ongoing conflicts and in the light of people’s aspirations for freedom, human rights and true democracy, the  promotion of a culture of peace is of the utmost importance. Belgium wants to join forces with UNESCO, in particular  through our presidency of the Task Force for International Cooperation on Holocaust Education, Remembrance and  Research in 2012. We are also starting preparations for the 2014-2018 Great War Commemoration project, through  which we want to send a universal message of peace around the world. The “Great War” was the first-ever international  conflict on a truly world scale. UNESCO can seize the opportunity of this commemoration to put the message of “No  more war” in the international spotlights. On the occasion of the Great War Commemoration, we intend to subscribe to  the Flanders Fields Declaration in 2012, together with like-minded partners. This declaration, ladies and gentlemen, will  emphasize that conflict and suffering have not yet been eradicated and that respect for international law and human  rights, cooperation between people, disarmament and integration remain key elements in our pursuit of a better future for  all humanity.
5.3 History has clearly shown that democracy and freedom are not eternal achievements. They require continuous  diligence and vigilance from everyone. Therefore it is imperative to make remembrance education a priority. Belgium fully  supports UNESCO’s activities related to education for peace. The UNESCO Associated Schools Project Network  (ASPnet), which will celebrate its 60th anniversary in 2013, is a fundamental instrument for building sustainable peace.  Together with the Flemish National Commission for UNESCO, we strongly support this network and have recently given  it a new dimension.
5.4 Ladies and gentlemen, climate change, deforestation, the loss of biodiversity and increasing desertification  constitute an extremely worrisome threat to our existence and to world peace. The two themes of this Leaders’ Forum  are consequently inseparably interconnected. Sustainable development presupposes that we strike a proper balance  among ecological, economic and social interests. Technology and science can help us in finding concrete solutions.  Excellencies, ladies and gentlemen, this is demonstrated by the current exhibition around the UNESCO building,  financed by Flanders and made possible through Belgian, German and European Union satellite technology. By means  of this technology, the consequences of climate change for World Heritage sites are demonstrated. This fascinating link  between cultural, educational and scientific dimensions truly shows the added value of UNESCO.
5.5 Ladies and gentlemen, the Ambassador of the Alliance of Civilizations and former Vice-President of the World  Bank already predicted in 1995 that “if the wars of this century were fought over oil, the wars of the next century will be  fought over water”. However, to this he added the important side note: “unless we change our approach to managing this  precious and vital resource”. Consequently, we believe that UNESCO has to undertake a prominent role in the  preparations for the United Nations Conference on Sustainable Development.
5.6 Ladies and gentlemen, Excellencies, we need to do even more to ensure the protection of natural resources,  capacity-building and solidly based and integrated coastal management. The International Hydrological Programme  (IHP) can play an important role, as can the Intergovernmental Oceanographic Commission (IOC). In the future, we  would like to see an increase in the IOC budget up to 2% of the total UNESCO budget. Since 2005, we have offered  support to the UNESCO/IOC Project Office for International Oceanographic Data and Information Exchange in Ostend.  This centre is making a significant contribution to the development of international oceanography and to the promotion of  the sustainable use and development of coastal areas.
5.7 Another crucial issue is the battle against desertification. Special attention to UNESCO’s Man and the Biosphere  (MAB) programme with regard to drylands is therefore fundamental. The countries and the people suffering most  severely from desertification are often the ones with the least effective defences available to them. The Project on  Sustainable Management of Marginal Drylands (SUMAMAD) tries to provide an answer by promoting research and  capacity-building in Africa, the Arab States, Asia and Latin America. The international community has to help the poorest  and most exposed people and communities to adapt to the consequences of climate change. We are also making our  development aid more responsive to these concerns. There is a clear need for a global governance structure. It has to  bridge the gaps in the implementation of the sustainable development agenda. And it has to accelerate global action  towards a greener and more sustainable economy.
5.8 Ladies and gentlemen, Excellencies, we encourage UNESCO to explore partnerships with the private sector,  which has a key role to play in delivering green growth through trade, investments, research and development,  innovation and resource efficiency. Education for sustainable development has to remain a high priority, because it is  able to change people’s minds.
5.9 Ladies and gentlemen, I will conclude. In tackling the challenges we are discussing today, UNESCO has to  reach out to all its allies: youth organizations, the UNESCO National Commissions, the private sector and, last but not  least, other international organizations dealing with peace issues and sustainable development. UNESCO has immense  expertise, but needs to apply that knowledge even more actively in the field itself. For that reason, choices need to be  made. A new global balance is taking shape. UNESCO can assume an important role when focusing on a number of  clearly defined themes in which the Organization can take the lead. I truly hope that the outcome of this Forum will  contribute to the future strategic direction of a reformed UNESCO, a UNESCO that is more focused, more efficient and  aptly reinforced. Thank you for your attention.
6. The Moderator:   Thank you, the Minister-President of the Government of Flanders, Kris Peeters. And also thank you to Flanders  for your exceptional support to many of UNESCO’s peace initiatives, a valued contributor. Now let us start a debate.
7. The President:   First there will be a brief interruption. I would very much have liked the President of Palau to stay here with us,  but he is now going to have a meeting with our Director-General. Thank you very much for coming, Mr President.  The meeting is suspended briefly while the President and the Director-General   take leave of the President of Palau and the Minister-President of Flanders, Belgium
8.1 The Moderator:   Thank you, Madam President. Basically, what I want to do is try and create a marketplace of ideas this morning.  I want to be proactive, with almost zero contribution from this panel up here and total contribution from you down there,  because, as far as I can work out, what UNESCO is trying to do with this Leaders’ Forum is give the Forum to the floor to  get your ideas, to find out what you want from UNESCO – what sort of organization you want UNESCO to be, say, over  the next 10 years. The areas I want to hear you talk about this morning are: peace, sustainable development, building  green societies and what your expectations are on those subjects. I also like Mr Peeters’ idea of exploring more  partnerships with the private sector. I would like to give you a very good example, possibly involving Samsung, which I  pick at random, but which is certainly trying a very definite economic shift from flat-screen television to sustainable  products.
8.2 Just before turning to the floor, I would just like to quote the words of the Director-General, Irina Bokova, which  are so relevant now. She talked on International Youth Day about the “youthquakes” – as she described them – that  have struck across the Arab world and shown the ability of young people to drive change. This is what you can do in this  room: drive change. Ms Bokova said that “the struggle for democratic participation has shaken regimes seemingly  impervious to pressure. These movements have shown the power of aspirations for human rights and fundamental  freedoms”. In other words, the power of change. I have covered the events of the Arab Spring for the past eight or nine  months, and I defy anybody in this room to have forecast, just a year ago, where we would be now. Nobody could have  done so. That shows the power of people to change. I hope that is what will come from the floor today: ideas for change.
8.3 Let us hear first from the floor, limiting speaking time to about three minutes please, because we have a lot of  people who wish to contribute, I am very glad to say. We will take contributions from people in the normal way, showing  your name-plate, and I would also ask you please to identify yourselves when you take the floor. We are going to start  with the Minister of Education of Afghanistan.
9.1 Mr Wardak (Afghanistan):   Bismillāḫ ir-raḫmān ir-rahīm. Excellencies, honourable panellists and my fellow global citizens, as-salāmu  ‘alaikum. I am Farooq Wardak, Minister of Education of Afghanistan.
9.2 First of all, I would like to express my heartfelt thanks to all of you for your highly professional conduct,  facilitation and moderation of this session. I would like to make three pragmatic suggestions on the subjects at hand,  based on our experience in Afghanistan. All three of them are interlinked and promote the concept that, while peace is a  prerequisite for sustainable development of any nature, instead of waiting for peace to come through a political  settlement or any other means, investing in education will contribute to building a durable culture of peace and  sustainable development because we believe that development is about people much more than about infrastructure.  The key themes in my intervention are: (1) community ownership of education; (2) peace education through school; and
(3) sustainability through improving capacity-development policies and practices.
9.3 First, empowering communities so that they can take ownership of education at the local level and move to the  forefront of expanding, defending and protecting schools: this lies at the heart of our strategies. These strategies have  led to the reopening of 500 schools, which were closed because of insecurity, and have allowed insurgents to make  peace with education, enabling us to reach the most disadvantaged children in hard-to-reach and insecure areas.
9.4 Second, incorporating messages of peace and non-violence into the content of school curricula and textbooks.  This has resulted in a considerable reduction in schoolyard violence and a change of attitudes and perceptions among  students and teachers, making education free of politics and ideological battles, even among the insurgents. We are  convinced that expanding peace education to schools at the national level will bring peace to the minds and hearts of  millions of children and their families.
9.5 Third, making capacity development more effective by increasing clarity between needs, investment and results.  This is possible by developing standards and benchmarks against which capacity building can be measured at three  levels: personnel capabilities, organizational performance and system-wide impact. It is my belief that support from  UNESCO to Member States for improving capacity-building results will contribute to the sustainability of development in  education. I hope UNESCO will consider assisting particularly the war-affected and developing countries in order to
91  develop community ownership of education, to expand the promotion of a culture of peace through schools, and to  support capacity development in education to become more results-oriented. I thank you.
10. The Moderator:   I thank you. That was brief, clear and to the point, and outlined three very important points. Long may the  schools stay open in Afghanistan. Thank you very much, Minister of Education. Let us now hear from Kenya.
11.1 Mr Ongeri (Kenya):   Thank you, Mr Moderator. I am Professor Sam Ongeri, Ambassador and Minister of Education of Kenya. We are  aware that UNESCO has been instrumental in enhancing the culture of peace through all its areas of competence.  Kenya therefore wishes to thank UNESCO for its continuous support in all these areas.
11.2 We consider the following areas critical in nurturing the development of a culture of peace: (1) Enhancing equity  and equality in crucial areas, such as in the distribution of resources, services, including education and health,  employment and political representation. This has the effect of reducing marginalization and fostering social inclusion. (2)  Youth empowerment through the development of critical skills for innovation and employment. In Kenya, increasing  resources have been invested in education at all levels, which fosters community ownership. In particular, there has  been a renewed emphasis on technical and vocational education and higher education. (3) We are convinced that  enhancing knowledge and the appreciation of other people’s culture is a sure way of reducing intolerance and prejudice  and indeed we have been able to move swiftly to create additional national schools where there is cross-fertilization of  cultures and people with different ethnic backgrounds attending national schools in various parts of the country.
(4) Mainstreaming cultural diversity and peace education in the curriculum at all levels in Kenya. During the post-election  violence of 2007-2008, one of the surest ways we were able to come back to normalcy was by being able to embrace  peace education and return to classrooms as fast as we could. This had a normalization effect. (5) Encouraging a culture  of dialogue and consensus as a conflict prevention and resolution measure. Naturally, there is the element of  strengthening democracy and good governance, which in turn leads to accelerated economic growth.
11.3 Mr Moderator, enhancing capacity building, for example, is an important way in which UNESCO can assist most  of the African countries that have almost achieved their EFA goals and therefore need increased investments for  capacity building for higher education. Resources are also needed to monitor and review any innovative programmes, to  improve efficiency and replicate success stories such as Kenya’s mobile schools and second-chance schools – what we  now popularly refer to as non-formal education. Furthermore, strengthening free and fair media ensures that acts of  impunity and corruption are squarely exposed, but there is a need to have effective policies to ensure that the media are  not used to incite violence, but rather as vehicles for the promotion of peace.
11.4 Mr Moderator, we know that UNESCO has a much broader agenda within the United Nations system. Kenya  therefore calls upon development partners to increase their extrabudgetary contributions. There is added urgency in this  regard in view of UNESCO’s zero budget growth. I thank you for your attention.
12. The Moderator:   Thank you, Professor. Is that basically a call for more funding?
14. The Moderator:   Let us now hear from Nigeria.
15.1 Ms Ahmed Rufai (Nigeria):    I am Professor Ruqayyatu Ahmed Rufai. I am the Minister of Education of the Republic of Nigeria and Head of  the Permanent Delegation of Nigeria to UNESCO. Your Excellencies, distinguished delegates, unfortunately, owing to  unavoidable circumstances, it has not been possible for my President, His Excellency Mr Jonathan Goodluck Ebele, to  be with you personally today as he had hoped. However, he has asked me to assure you that he will be very much with  you in spirit, as you face your great responsibilities during the next two and a half weeks. We did not need to re-write  UNESCO’s Constitution to see that there is indeed a clear coincidence between the declaration of intention made by the  founders of UNESCO, especially as articulated in the Organization’s Constitution, and the questions raised by the  subjects of our Forum. UNESCO was created for the purpose of advancing, through the educational and scientific and  cultural relations of the peoples of the world, the objectives of international peace and of the common welfare of  humankind.
15.2 So, how does UNESCO contribute to building a culture of peace and to sustainable development? Well, the  short answer is by performing its constitutional duties in favour of peace and development in collaboration with other  relevant intergovernmental and non-governmental organizations in close cooperation with Member States and in  collaboration with the widest international funding sources. In so doing, Member States, their needs, their aspirations, as  well as their challenges, must be in the forefront of UNESCO’s plans and works.
15.3 Please allow me to suggest that perhaps this 36th session of the General Conference is of particular  importance. We, at the level of this Member States’ summit, should seize this opportunity and go beyond mere  identification of how UNESCO contributes to peace-building and to sustainable development and give serious  consideration to how UNESCO can better equip itself in the performance of its duties of contributing to peace-building  and to sustainable development along with its other responsibilities. This session of the General Conference offers a  welcome opportunity as we have before us for consideration several problem questions ranging from the final reports on  the Programme and Budget for the 2008-2009 biennium, through the examination of the Programme and Budget for the  year 2012-2013, right up to the presentation of recommendations for the preparation of the Organization’s Medium-Term
92  Strategy for the period 2014 to 2019. This covers a period of 11 years spreading from 2009 to 2019. My plea is that, as  we deliberate at all these different levels of our Conference, we should set our minds on putting forward proposals,  recommendations and other important guidelines on how UNESCO can better fulfil its responsibilities – all its  responsibilities, among them of course that of contributing to the building of a culture of peace and to sustainable  development.
15.4 For more than ever before, UNESCO now fully occupies its rightful place in the community of international  intergovernmental organizations. Its competence is recognized and respected, as witnessed by the several  responsibilities it has been required to assume on behalf of the international community in its fields of competence. I  must end this rapidly in order to draw attention to the international ramifications of the action we will take here in  UNESCO as they, more than ever, are certain to affect international action far beyond UNESCO, ascending to the larger  global action of the international community. A UNESCO that is enabled to better perform its duties and to better serve  the cause of peace and sustainable development will be undeniably an asset, not just to its Member States, but also to  cohesive international action in general.
15.5 We in Nigeria have great confidence in the capacity and capability of our Conference and our Organization for  success as we face these challenges. That faith and the inspiration we draw from it has been the hallmark of our  relationship with the Organization. We have broadened and recently deepened our partnership and we are proud to have  initiated with UNESCO one of the Organization’s largest funds-in-trust programmes in education. That is the measure of  our faith in UNESCO. If we can, at the end of this session of the General Conference, identify several proposals and  suggestions for better and more efficient performance by UNESCO, not only for the period under consideration at the  moment, but in fact far beyond, we will have set UNESCO on the path of the future, ever more secure and more efficient  in the service of its Member States and the international community in general. This is my hope and I wish you great  success at this Forum and at the rest of the 36th session of the General Conference. I thank you very much.
16. The Moderator:   Thank you very much. And thank you for the praise for UNESCO. Before you finish, just tell me in 10 or
15 seconds how you think UNESCO could become better and more efficient in terms of performance.
17. Ms Ahmed Rufai (Nigeria):   Yes, Mr Moderator, UNESCO can perform better by having more funds in terms of collaboration with Member  States, as my counterpart from Kenya has just proposed. UNESCO needs to ensure that it has more funds for the larger  communities, for other countries, for all the Member States. In Nigeria we propose a funds-in-trust arrangement, but we  also expect that there should be some means of funding with UNESCO actually contributing to that fund. Nigeria has  raised money, but we believe that UNESCO could also help by putting in some money, and I believe that other countries  will expect the same.
18. The Moderator:   Thank you very much. I got your message very clearly indeed: again, the call for more funding, I think this is  going to be commonplace. Now let us hear what Romania has to say about education, peace and sustainability.
19.1 Mr Funeriu (Romania):   Thank you very much. Honourable Director-General, Honourable President of the General Conference, Your  Excellencies, I am Daniel Funeriu, Minister of Education, Research, Youth and Sports in the Romanian Government. Let  me start by telling you that I welcome your introduction, the more so as it becomes clear that no matter how good laws  and regulations are, nothing will ever replace a good school principal who cares daily about each and every child in his or  her school.
19.2 Now, it is a matter of fact that many of our countries are undergoing far-reaching educational reforms, and so is  Romania. Since the beginning of 2010, we have had a new education law that is on the way to succeeding in bringing  education much closer to society and in making school work for the community. Therefore, both formal and non-formal  education components have been restructured so as to converge towards the development of the students’ system of  quality and values, observable especially beyond the classroom. We have to make it very clear that beyond content,  school offers and shares values. In this respect, we have acted on restructuring educational outcomes so that skills  prevail over the reproduction of knowledge, and promoting social equity in order to eliminate disparities between  advantaged and disadvantaged categories of students and social exclusion owing to illiteracy, drop-out or ethnic  reasons. In Romania there are schools where children from more than three ethnicities study together. Through this  cohabitation in our schooling, we ensure a multicultural educational environment that fosters a culture of peace and  democracy. Romania has 18 recognized minorities. We believe that this is a major source of diversity and progress for  our country. We promote cultural diversity by enhancing the minorities’ right to education in their native language - and I  stress here, education of minorities in their native language, at all levels - and by providing support for immigrant children  to continue their studies with a view to their insertion into mainstream education.
19.3 Another important point for us is enhancing access to education and raising the quality of education by initiating  several innovative measures. I will only mention one such programme, which is the setting of a legal framework for the  second-chance programme designed to facilitate school re-integration of all those who have dropped out of school. We  are also working very hard on improving knowledge about different cultures and people and reinforcing intercultural  dialogue. The Romanian education system has taken important steps towards promoting knowledge about different  cultures and people and towards reinforcing intercultural dialogue. An example of good practice is a ministerial order,  dating back to 2007, regarding the development of diversity throughout the national curriculum. In this respect,  intercultural education is integrated into the civic education module that is studied compulsorily in the third, fourth,  seventh and eighth grades. In parallel, we have introduced elective subjects relating to intercultural dialogue, the syllabi  for which have been approved by our Ministry. An important focus for us is also the empowering of youth as agents of
93  social change and actors for peace. So, within the framework of several strategic documents, such as the National  Strategy for Preventing and Eliminating Violence, and the National Strategy of Community Action, our Ministry, together  with the Students’ National Council, has established in the Romanian education system modes of action towards youth  empowerment on the basis of several main lines of action, among which I would mention the promotion of student  associative structures and of students’ voices in the consultative and decision-making process on matters related to  school issues.
19.4 Entrepreneurship is also an important point for us and therefore we encourage the promotion and expansion of  entrepreneurship projects, such as “practice” companies. Another matter of concern to us is the involvement of students  in the implementation of local and regional plans of action in education.   (The speaker continues in French)
19.5 Mesdames et Messieurs, au-delà de ces actions concrètes, il existe une ligne directrice que suivent notre  ministère et notre gouvernement. Pendant très longtemps en Roumanie, et pas seulement en Roumanie, les ressources,  surtout les ressources humaines, sont allées là où se trouvait le savoir. Dans le nouveau cadre que nous mettons en  place actuellement, nous avons comme souci permanent de faire en sorte que le savoir aille là où se trouvent les  ressources, en particulier les ressources humaines. Nous pourrions peut-être réfléchir ensemble à ce principe et  partager au sein de l'UNESCO nos expériences à ce sujet.   (L’orateur poursuit en anglais)
19.6 In ending, I would like to share a thought that has been with me for quite some time now. For many years, in the  world, we have talked the talk. The time has come for us to walk the walk. I thank you very much for your attention.
20. The Moderator:   Thank you very much. How do you think can we walk the walk?
21. Mr Funeriu (Romania):   This is for us to define.
22. The Moderator:   Would you like to have a go at defining what you mean?
23. Mr Funeriu (Romania):   What I mean is putting into action the great principles that all of us, or most of us, adhere to; putting action and  resources into the principles that most of us agree on.
24. The Moderator:   Yes, I must say you have some great ideas and a lot of them are relevant not just to Romania, but certainly to  many schools in Europe and I suspect elsewhere in the world, especially balancing the diversity of many different  minorities in schools. It is a problem that teachers talk about a great deal; trying to teach children of mixed abilities,  mixed cultures and mixed nationalities is extremely difficult. I do not know how UNESCO can follow up on that, but we  have here some ideas from Romania about walking the walk. It would be interesting to hear if others might like to support  that line. Let us now hear from Norway.
25.1 Ms Halvorsen (Norway):   Good morning. My name is Kristin Halvorsen. I am the Minister of Education of Norway. Madam President,  Excellencies, Director-General, colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, UNESCO’s peace mission feels more urgent and  relevant after this summer. Norway suffered a devastating terror attack causing the deaths of 77 innocent people. I would  like to take this opportunity to thank the international community for its condolences and acts of solidarity towards  Norway afterwards, even from countries that have suffered from more severe disasters or violence. The entire world may  feel less safe when a small and peaceful nation such as Norway is harmed by such evil. The empathy and support from  the rest of the world has helped us through difficult times. For the Norwegian people, it has been important not to face  this horrid act with hatred and fear. Instead, we have been devoted to democratic principles and values. The terrorist  wanted to destroy democracy and a multi-religious society. Our response was to call for more democracy, more  openness, more freedom, and time will show if we succeed. But I am convinced that a culture of peace and democracy  must be introduced and maintained in the school system. That is as true for Norway as it is for the rest of the UNESCO  Member States. UNESCO should therefore continue to provide strong leadership for education for all. Progress has been  made in the field when it comes to enrolment, and now we need to focus on quality and teachers to ensure that  education contributes to development.
25.2 Madam President, this year across the Middle East and North Africa, millions of people have called for  democracy and human rights and especially freedom of expression. I recently met one of this year’s Nobel Peace Prize  laureates, Tawakkul Karman, from Yemen. She is an impressive person fighting both for women’s participation and for  freedom of expression. Despite the recent trends in these regions, however, we are still concerned about the lack of  press freedom and safety for journalists in many places. We encourage further work by UNESCO in this area. Thank  you.
26. The Moderator:   Thank you very much. I, too, extend my sympathies to the friends and families of those 77 children and teachers  who died on that island on that terrible morning and evening and from the bomb explosion before the shootings. It was  just awful, and I could not believe the news as it came in. I anchored that for about six hours and it was horrific. Thank
94  you for that intervention. I understand you to have said that you want a culture of peace and democracy introduced in  schools.
27. Ms Halvorsen (Norway):   Yes, that is, I think, a very important point. Many people remarked on the way Norwegians reacted to this terror  attack and that is very closely connected to how we underline that values should be discussed in the education system.  We must bring values to children and young people and emphasize how important it is for each and every child and  grown-up to participate in a democratic society and to enjoy freedom of speech. That is an important part of how we have  reacted to this terror attack so far. Now we have to increase this work, because we have to succeed even more in the  future.
28. The Moderator:   Tell me, how do you introduce that practically in the classroom?
29. Ms Halvorsen (Norway):   Well, we invite our students to reflect, to discuss, to be aware of and not tolerate racism or anti-Semitism, and to  know the history of the Holocaust, slavery and Martin Luther King. Both knowledge and our values, as well as the way  we reflect, are a very important part of the education system.
30. The Moderator:   Kris Peeters, if you remember, talked about what he called “remembrance education”. Is that what you mean?
31. Ms Halvorsen (Norway):   Yes, exactly.
32. The Moderator:   Well, thank you for that. Let us now hear from South Africa.
33.1 Ms Motshekga (South Africa):   Thank you very much, Mr Moderator. My name is Angie Motshekga. I am the Minister of Basic Education of  South Africa. Mr Moderator, let me start off by saying that we would like to make our contribution on how we think we can  build the values and principles of a culture of peace and integrate them into our societies. You all will recall that as South  Africans we have emerged from a centuries-old bitter conflict that pitted people against one another on the basis of race,  culture and language. As a country we continue to carry the scars of that conflict and have by no means resolved all our  tensions and conflicts.
33.2 However, through our Truth and Reconciliation Commission, we started to try to deal with our painful past. Our  view is that, as a society, it is important to speak openly about these tensions and conflicts, engage constantly, both in  government and civil society, on questions of how to overcome the divisions and build a culture of peace and social  harmony. We also believe that as countries we have to celebrate our diversities and place dialogue and intercultural  understanding in the interests of peace at the centre of the understanding of ourselves. For instance, if in South Africa  identities were defined in the past by racial hierarchies, in the present our identity is built around a commitment to peace,  dialogue and discussion. This finds expression as much in our school curricula as in our continental and regional political  approaches.
33.3 Education at all levels, both in school and beyond the classroom, has been a cornerstone of our efforts to build a  society based on recognition and realization of rights, social justice and equality for all. We have built the values and  principles of peace into our curricula through an emphasis on inclusion. Our starting point has been our Constitution and  Bill of Rights. For instance, we have integrated all our 11 languages into the school curricula, giving access to the global  language of English, and we have established different commissions to protect and promote the rights of different cultural  and language groups. We want to salute UNESCO in its unwavering commitment to the cause of peace and sustainable  development – goals and values that we share. We also want to take this opportunity to thank UNESCO for the  invaluable support it continues to give us as a country and for that we are humbled. Thank you very much, Mr Moderator.
34. The Moderator:   Thank you. Please tell me, what is the biggest challenge you face in education in South Africa, in the schools?
35. Ms Motshekga (South Africa):   Redress. We must settle the differences that we have inherited from the past. We still have not been able to  bridge the gap between the different racial groups. The majority of people still have no basic infrastructure. The  provisions in our systems are very unequal and are simply what we have inherited from the past. That is the biggest  challenge. The second challenge is to improve the quality of our outcomes, because although we have opened access  for all children to schools, that has not been meshed with a full ability to manage quality with great access. So I think  quality and redress are the major outstanding issues.
36. The Moderator:   South Africa showed the world the way, did it not, with truth and reconciliation. Do you also think something  similar could happen in education to help meet that challenge?
37. Ms Motshekga (South Africa):   Yes, we have the means to promote open dialogue and honesty so that we can always bring into the open our  differences and encourage each one of us to respect our differences, accept them and appreciate them. That is why we  have different commissions, and language commissions, to allow people to express themselves freely and respect the  rights of others to be different from them.
38. The Moderator:   That is great. Thank you for that. Let us hear from the Czech Republic.
39.1 Mr Galuška (Czech Republic):   Thank you for the floor. My name is Vladimir Galuška. I am the Deputy Foreign Minister and head of delegation.  Mr Moderator, Excellencies, distinguished delegates, the current conflicts have in many cases an ethnic, racial or  religious context. They are often triggered by intolerance and misunderstanding. It is necessary to know the roots of  these conflicts, and UNESCO’s competencies in disciplines such as human sciences should play a vital role in  addressing them and especially in preventing future potential conflicts.
39.2 In our view, UNESCO should, in the education of children from an early age, put major emphasis on inter-ethnic,  racial and religious tolerance and try to achieve mutual tolerance of different cultures in education. In our opinion,  spreading awareness of the values of other cultures is an integral part of such training and therefore we consider the  exchange of cultural values extremely important at various levels – from meetings of experts to large events, where  visitors have the opportunity to become acquainted with the values of other cultures and nations. We believe that  UNESCO is irreplaceable in this domain. It has a great deal of work to do, for example in preparing new school curricula  or in popularizing and explaining cultural traditions of individual nations.
39.3 UNESCO can do a lot of work in discussing and formulating national policies in education and culture. The  development of multilateral international cooperation in education, science and culture can undoubtedly be a major  contribution to the achievement of lasting peace. I am convinced that this goal can be reached by the democratization of  education, including promotion of gender equality, through the long-term programme on education for all. To reach the  strategic goal of full literacy we need to make a strong and sustained effort.
39.4 I am happy to report that the Czech Republic, in the field of education, is engaged in several projects aiming at a  deeper understanding among nations. I welcome the fact that education is an important topic of the current 36th session  of the General Conference and that these negotiations may bring new impetus to a universal culture of peace. Thank you  for your attention.
40. The Moderator:   Thank you very much, Czech Republic. While I always thought John Lennon was a bit ambitious with “Give  peace a chance”, I think probably “give tolerance a chance” is what you are talking about, is it not? So how can you  teach tolerance or create an atmosphere of tolerance in education? How can UNESCO help you achieve that, if you think  that is the way to go?
41. Mr Galuška (Czech Republic):   I think that you can create an atmosphere of tolerance by getting to know each other better. Mostly people are  intolerant to things that are alien to them and that they do not understand and know in detail.
42. The Moderator:   That is an extremely valid point, because people are frightened of what they do not know. So how can UNESCO  help to create that?
43. Mr Galuška (Czech Republic):   As UNESCO is a universal organization, I think it is the best place to create a network of contacts and perhaps  even such a thing as a universal curriculum, because there are values that are universal and that should be included in  the school curricula of every nation and through such channels this could be achieved. Thank you.
44. The Moderator:   A universal syllabus.
45. Mr Galuška (Czech Republic):   A universal syllabus, yes.
(47.1)  Mr Al-Noaimi (Bahrain) (translation from the Arabic):    Thank you, Mr Moderator. My name is Majid Ali Al-Noaimi and I am the Minister of Education in the Kingdom of  Bahrain. First, I would like to thank the organizers for enabling us to have this dialogue yesterday and today about the very  important work and objectives of UNESCO.
(47.2) Mr Moderator, when we speak about sustainable development, we are speaking about a sophisticated, dynamic  concept with overlapping dimensions, reflecting the vision of culture in the world. Development means meeting the needs of  the present without compromising the ability of future generations to meet their own needs. Returning to the General Assembly  resolutions, it is noted that the proclamation, in December 2002, of the United Nations Decade of Education for Sustainable  Development will give UNESCO a major role and you, Mr Moderator, have pointed out what is required of UNESCO. I will  focus my presentation on the role required of the Organization in the next phase, especially since there is a very close link  between the concepts of education and sustainable development. In education strategies, linking curricula and a culture of  sustainable development is vital, Mr Moderator; because development priorities imply the protection of the environment,  human rights, world peace, cultural diversity and so forth, as all of these dimensions are directly related to education. Thus,  education and development are inseparable and concern the regulation of ethics, which is the role of UNESCO. What is  required, from my point of view as a representative of one of Member States of the Organization, is the following: first, I believe  that UNESCO has a major role in building national capacities that can help to link education for all age groups with concepts of  sustainable development. By what means? I think that one of the means is for UNESCO to organize workshops and meetings  to build national capacities, and it is necessary to strengthen this role. I believe that UNESCO has a very important part to play  in building partnerships between all stakeholders concerned, in both the public and private sectors, in the field of building such  concepts and enhancing the link between civil society and its role in these international priorities and initiatives.
(47.3) As UNESCO is the lead agency for the United Nations Decade of Education for Sustainable Development, which  began in 2005, it plays an effective role linking education and sustainable development. As an agency promoting development,  UNESCO could emphasize education reform and coordinate activities between Member States. It could continue to prevent  education institutions and schools from being used for political purposes, which subsequently influences future generations,  and from encouraging hatred of other opinions or other peoples, which is very dangerous for development and its impact on  education and, therefore, the impact of education on development, too. Finally, Mr Moderator, I believe that UNESCO’s  regional offices should do more by organizing more training workshops, providing support to countries in building national  capacities in the area of linking education to sustainable development so that we can build fundamental goals. Thank you, Mr  Moderator.
48. The Moderator:   Excellent. Yes, there are some good ideas there and good advice from the Minister of Education of Bahrain.  Sustainable development is a complex term, so perhaps we should find a more “child-friendly” term. A close link between  education and sustainable development creating partnerships with stakeholders is a very interesting idea. You spoke of a  reform of education, but I am not quite sure what reform you were referring to. If you would like to clarify that, you are  welcome to do so. And more regional meetings is a request that I can well understand. UNESCO is a big and truly global  organization, so perhaps more regional meetings might work. Would Bahrain like to add anything in response to what I  said?   جالبحرين): السيد النعيمي ٤٨ ةعم، ضةا اتفق معك، سادي الرةاس، يف مو وع هذه الفترة ويف ال قاط ولتن جيا ضن خنرج بتوصاة فاما يتعلق بتفعال هذه األفتار من خالل   وةستو اآلن هو ضن تءع هلذه املفاهام جدوالً وسالة، ويتون ع دةا مهام ضددة، ضو ضي شيه يعطا ا دورًا كبريًا يف ت ظام هذه اللقاهات. ضةا ضعتقد ضن دور الا سى. جيا ضن ةتفق ضو ةصل زم ااً ضو خطة عمل وا حة لتفعال املتاتا اائلاماة امل تشرة يف العامل، ألةر ال ميتن ضن ة ائش املو وع يف هذه القاعة وبعد فرتة ي   ة  حباث يتون هلا دور كبري جداً يف ئءاة ربط التعلام بالت ماة، شتراً، سادي الرةاس.إىل توصاة، سادي الرةاس، حباث ضن ةفّعل الدور يف ب اه القدرات الوط ا
(48) Mr Al-Noaimi (Bahrain) (translation from the Arabic):    Yes, Mr Moderator, I agree with you on the subject of this subject with regard to the points made, but we must  formulate a recommendation so that we may put our ideas into action by specifying tasks and other matters that give us a  major role in organizing these meetings. I think that UNESCO’s role now is to put these concepts into a timetable and a clear  action plan to galvanize the regional offices throughout the world, because we cannot discuss the subject in this room and  then, after a while, just forget. We must reach an agreement or a recommendation, Mr Moderator, so that we can carry out our  role in building national capacities so that they can play a large part in linking education with development. Thank you, Mr  Moderator.
50. The Moderator:   Shukran. More dynamic, some terms of reference, specific goals and adoption of a recommendation. That is  what you were saying, Bahrain, and all have been duly noted. May we hear from Uruguay next, please?
(51.1) Mr Ehrlich (Uruguay):    Madam President, Excellencies, I would like to make a few comments about the development of a culture of peace  and of sustainable development, which is our point of focus. We understand that these are closely linked to the efforts and  policies for the development of social cohesion, and that monitoring the development of social cohesion should take into  account a great number of indicators. However, social indicators do not follow the social cohesion process at the same speed.  I am referring especially to education, as while social cohesion is being built, levels of poverty are falling in our countries; and  indicators of quality education improvement often lag considerably behind. This is about developing social cohesion, especially  the effort of developing a context where coexistence in our societies is enhanced, as are policies for capacity building for all  groups in a population, democratic development of living standards, and most of all, the feeling of belonging, having roots,  discovering one’s place in the world; a discovery which should be the goal for every one of us. These main ideas must be  developed with great conviction within the framework of education and  culture. Allow me to share with you some aspects of  culture which I will emphasize, because culture is a veritable meeting point for a society. Building this meeting point,  developing synchrony within a society in terms of its self-image and the time period in which it exists is perhaps one of the  major contributing factors to coexistence and to developing a context of peace while also strengthening a society and making it  more constructive.
(51.2) This point at which society comes face to face with itself and with its time requires the development of very precise  spaces. Culture is one example of a major meeting space in society, on the same level as territory and normative spaces in a  community or nation. In this sense, we wish to group the suggestions for culture based on cultural citizenship, the right to  culture, democratic access to cultural goods and cultural creativity. We have thus developed experience – which has been  significant - in opening up meeting spaces for the society through culture. Spaces for the diverse types of performing arts are  major meeting spaces in a society, within which society’s bonds are strengthened. At the same time, experiences with centres  for cultural development on all levels, especially where society is most vulnerable, have proved to be a very powerful tool, as  have been political measures to implement proposals from the creative and cultural industries. To this effect we are rolling out  a very special project in line with the United Nation’s ‘Delivering as One’ approach, headed by UNESCO. This project has  allowed us to create audiovisual production and music centres countrywide, promoting learning and production and allowing  the young and the not-so-young to discover these activities. These centres have also stimulated the growth of cultural and  creative industries structured around knowledge and traditional know-how. This has been particularly powerful, playing a role  in changing culture into a major meeting space for society, for the nation.
(51.3) And finally, I would like to clearly define the main references for the creation and development of coexistence in a  society, and the consolidation of links for coexistence. The first, without a doubt, are the educational and cultural programmes  that focus on guiding the new generation of adolescents and young people in formal and non-formal education. The second  are the programmes which promote human rights with the active participation of young people, again in formal and non-formal  educational contexts. And the third is the stimulation and encouragement of all citizens to participate in different activities and  at different levels of social responsibility. And lastly, and fourthly, are the various development initiatives to promote and  prioritize the visualization and enhancement of all kinds of social diversity. This last point may well be the most important factor  for furthering coexistence and for preparing the collective consciousness for a culture of peace. Thank you.
52. The Moderator:   Yes, you are right on every single point and this builds on what the Czech Republic talked about earlier. People  are very, very proud of their culture, and rightly so. So how much do you teach about your own culture and how much do  you teach about other cultures to make people culturally aware? You have to learn about other people’s lives because if  you learn about them you are not going to be frightened of them and this is a way of creating tolerance, by teaching  culture. Cultural citizenship is taught in some countries via citizenship classes. In my experience they are not taken very  seriously, certainly not in the United Kingdom, for example, but they are probably taken more seriously elsewhere. Again,  it depends, I suppose, on the quality of the teaching, like any subject, and citizenship is a new subject. Thank you,  Uruguay, for an interesting set of ideas. Now let us turn to Angola.
53.1 M. Mpinda Simão (Angola) :   Excellences, Mesdames et Messieurs les délégués, je suis Mpinda Simão, Ministre de l’éducation de l’Angola.  Plusieurs interventions que nous avons entendues hier et aujourd’hui, et en particulier celle du Président de la Côte  d’Ivoire, le Président Ouattara, se référaient à la paix, qui n’est pas un bien permanent, éternel : on peut l’avoir  aujourd’hui et la perdre demain. C’est pourquoi je pense que les différentes initiatives à entreprendre en vue de créer  des compétences au sein des communautés doivent prévoir des mesures en cas de perte de ce bien, qui est précieux  pour tout le monde. Les compétences que l’on doit transmettre aux élèves à l’école et aux communautés doivent les  préparer à savoir créer les conditions de la reconstruction de la paix : savoir négocier, savoir dialoguer et acquérir des  aptitudes pour pouvoir, en cas de perte de cette paix, en cas de surgissement de conflits, reconstituer la paix. Les  belligérants eux-mêmes doivent, je pense, être les acteurs principaux de ce processus. À l’école, pourquoi ne pas  intégrer aux activités scolaires et extrascolaires la préparation des jeunes élèves pour leur permettre de débattre des  problèmes et de chercher à les résoudre, chaque fois qu’ils en rencontreront ?
53.2 Un autre aspect que je voudrais souligner réside dans le fait que la communication sociale peut être un espace  favorisant la paix comme le conflit. Les parties prenantes de la communication sociale doivent être préparées et  sensibilisées à jouer le rôle de garant complémentaire de l’école pour assurer la permanence de la paix. On peut y  recourir en matière de prévention comme en cas de perte de la paix, pour sa reconstruction. La paix – et l’Angola en a  l’expérience – exige des conditions préalables. Pour qu’il y ait la paix, il faut qu’il y ait tolérance, patience, sincérité,  honnêteté. C’est seulement dans ces conditions que l’on pourra, je crois, être crédible auprès de l’autre pour pouvoir le  convaincre de passer à des sentiments favorables. Tant que l’on n’aura pas inculqué ces valeurs-là aux jeunes et aux  communautés, il sera difficile de construire la paix et de la maintenir. Finalement, dans un contexte de suprématie de  cultures, de relations hiérarchiques, de plus forts et de plus faibles, tant que les mentalités n’évolueront pas pour  considérer les différences entre les personnes comme un apport complémentaire et un enrichissement, nous  éprouverons des difficultés à instaurer la paix. C’est pourquoi les mentalités doivent évoluer pour que le monde puisse  bénéficier de ce bien fondamental. Merci.
54. The Moderator:   You are right. Angola has a lot of experience with that. Thank you for that intervention. I have worked out that  some 40 countries have experienced armed conflict in the last 15 years. So, what action could UNESCO take to head off  any more of those conflicts in the next 15 years, I wonder? Let us hear from Pakistan next.
55.1 Ms Wazir Ali (Pakistan):   Thank you, Mr Cole. It is a pleasure to see you here at UNESCO. Listening to the panoramic views of the  Presidents and the Prime Ministers and other world leaders at this Forum reinforces Pakistan’s view that this has been a  very, very effective initiative. We certainly hope that it can continue with every General Conference, because we do  indeed need to have a world agenda. In a sense we are setting the world agenda through both the contributions of the  world leaders and the Youth Forum for achieving a durable peace. Certainly we all recognize that peace is not just the  absence of war and conflict, but UNESCO and the global community is defining peace here as an environment where  fundamental human rights and human potential can be maximized.
55.2 Now Pakistan has confronted various challenges recently. First of all I will come to climate change because that  connects also with a very important area of work of UNESCO. Pakistan has suffered floods, catastrophic floods, which  have affected 20 million people. We are in the wake of an enormous glacial melt, rising sea level threatening coastlines,  desertification and an earthquake that occurred some time ago. Clearly we realize that we need to use the  intersectorality of science, technology, education and communication systems and, I would add, media as a very, very  powerful agent of information to educate, to build preparedness and to adopt risk mitigation and disaster management  strategies. We feel that the importance of bringing all the stakeholders into UNESCO’s dialogue cannot be under- emphasized. We strongly support what the President of Palau has also talked about, concerning the various threats of  environmental degradation and bringing all the intellectual and financial resources to bear on an ethical approach.
55.3 Also, we strongly believe that the private sector and youth must be engaged. With the rising aspirations that we  have seen in the Arab World and also reflected and resonating across the world, Pakistan feels that we should,  UNESCO, accelerate and strengthen our approaches for multiculturalism, promotion of plurality, diversity in the  curriculum, in particular to counter extremism and exclusion. I come from a country where Benazir Bhutto spoke of
99  democracy and reconciliation as the building blocks for peace. We do feel that building the stakes of the young  generation, which is the demographic pulse of the world today - building their stakes in a democratic constitutional  system - is absolutely vital. UNESCO, in setting out its work for the biennium, in particular its programmes and through  its budgets, needs to support an education system which responds to the particular needs and challenges that the young  generation is faced with today. So I would once again reiterate the importance of intersectorality, of using science and  technological innovation, buttressed by culture, education and media, to address what we see as major environmental  and climate change challenges, and the need for inclusive societies. Thank you.
56. The Moderator:   Excellent, thank you for that. Very briefly, what is at the top of your list of priorities that you would like to see  from UNESCO?
57. Ms Wazir Ali (Pakistan):   I would like, once again, to say that education is at the heart of it, because education is the pivot, the  transformational system. Support to the education sector needs to be strengthened in order to focus on several things  that I have reiterated. I advocate a focus on curriculum that addresses the current and contemporary challenges that our  young people are facing and that the markets of the world are also demanding. UNESCO needs to connect much more  effectively with the rest of the world. Thank you.
58. The Moderator:   Thank you very much. You also mentioned that the private sector should be more engaged and I wonder if this  is a resource that is not being fully utilized. I mentioned Samsung in my opening remarks. I have no connection  whatsoever with this company, I hasten to add. It started making batteries at one stage and then ten years later sold  more than any other company. Then it started building flat-screen televisions and within four years was a market leader.  Next, it invested in flash memory, the technology delivered to iPhones and iPads, and made Samsung Apple’s biggest  supplier and now biggest hardware company. Now it is going to move away from all these things to spend $20 billion  over 10 years on solar panels, LEDs, electric vehicle batteries, medical devices and bio-tech drugs. So this is a seismic  shift in what it sees is important for the next decade. I am sure that UNESCO could harness some of these private-sector  partnerships, because if a company like Samsung is doing work like this and seeing the way is clear for these kinds of  sustainable devices, far more sustainable than televisions and cars, it is really going greener. The company believes  green technology and healthcare is central to the twenty-first century. So there are some shared goals there, which I find  quite interesting. Thank you for that. And I also like Pakistan’s description of young people being the democratic pulse.  Let us hear from Viet Nam now.
59.1 M. Duong (Viet Nam) :   Merci, Madame la Présidente, merci, Monsieur le Modérateur. Au nom de la délégation du Viet Nam à la
36e session de la Conférence générale de l'UNESCO, je voudrais partager un certain nombre de réflexions sur le thème  de ce Forum des dirigeants. Je trouve le choix de ce thème très judicieux parce qu’il évoque à la fois le lien entre la paix  et le développement et qu’il est exprimé sous forme de question : « Comment l'UNESCO contribue-t-elle à l’édification  d’une culture de la paix et au développement durable ? » Nous pensons qu’il regroupe deux thématiques ou deux  notions à clarifier : la paix et le développement. Selon nous, la paix est indissociable du développement parce que dans  le monde, dans tous les pays, il ne peut y avoir de développement sans paix. La paix est donc la condition sine qua non  du développement. Au sens large du terme, la paix signifie la stabilité politique et sociale dans un pays. Or, jusqu’à  présent, si l’on regarde l’histoire du développement de l’humanité, il n’y a pas de stabilité politique et sociale lorsqu’il  s’agit de réellement assurer le développement. C’est pour cela que nous partageons tout à fait la volonté de construire  ou d’édifier une, ou la, culture de la paix. L’autre question à se poser est l’utilisation de l’expression « la culture de la  paix », ou « une culture de la paix ». Nous pensons que nous pouvons très bien utiliser l’article défini en français, c’est-à- dire « la culture de la paix ». La culture de la paix devrait être liée au développement durable.
59.2 J’en arrive à ma deuxième idée, le lien entre l'éducation et le développement durable justement. La Directrice  générale, dans son discours d’ouverture, a dit que plus de la moitié de l’humanité était actuellement âgée de moins de
25 ans. Donc, la question de l’éducation se pose à deux niveaux : au niveau des connaissances pour l’humanité, pour  les jeunes, ainsi qu’au niveau de la culture. L’éducation comprend tout d’abord les connaissances. Les individus, surtout  les jeunes, ont besoin de connaissances pour vivre et pour travailler. Mais en même temps, l’éducation ou les manuels  scolaires doivent aussi enseigner aux jeunes comment se comporter dans la vie, c’est-à-dire la culture du vivre- ensemble, la culture du partage, tout ce qui est commun à l’humanité. C’est pour cela que l’éducation est la clé du  succès du développement. Dans le même temps, nous devons ici évoquer la question du développement durable, qui se  traduit en deux termes. D’abord, en termes de croissance économique, c’est-à-dire de développement matériel, qui est  bien entendu nécessaire, mais également en termes de ressources naturelles, parce que la génération actuelle ne peut  pas assumer ce développement et oblige la génération future à en payer le prix. Je partage tout à fait l’avis des pays qui  ont abordé la question du changement climatique. Je crois que le Viet Nam en est l’une des premières victimes. C’est  pour cela, à mon avis personnel, qu’il faut vraiment réfléchir et affiner nos idées sur le développement durable.
59.3 La troisième idée que je voudrais évoquer est que le Viet Nam est tout à fait disposé à partager ses  expériences. Bien entendu, celles-ci ne sont pas très riches, mais nous en avons cependant acquises dans notre  développement depuis une vingtaine d’années. Nous sommes tout à fait prêts à partager avec les autres pays nos  expériences en matière de développement durable. Ma dernière observation portera à nouveau sur le thème de notre  Forum, exprimé sous forme de question. Nous pensons que la réponse à celle-ci pourrait être formulée dans un  document ou une résolution de l'UNESCO sur le lien entre la culture de la paix et le développement. Je vous remercie  de votre attention.
60. The Moderator:   Culture and peace through development, I like that very much. Thank you very much, Viet Nam. Let us now hear  from the Islamic Republic of Iran.
61.1 Mr Saeidabadi (Islamic Republic of Iran):   Thank you, Madam President. Thank you, Mr Moderator. I am Mohammad Reza Saeidabadi, Professor of Social  Science at Tehran University and Secretary-General of the Iranian National Commission for UNESCO. There are a few  conceptual points regarding the culture of peace that I wish to share with my colleagues.
61.2 Ladies and gentlemen, the road to light from darkness and to peace and sustainable development from hostility  and conflict is paved by empathy. Rumi, the renowned poet of the heart, stated this point thus – at times two individuals  from two different countries can be of one language and at times two individuals from one place may be as strangers  who are not able to understand each other. Language is of course a means for understanding, but empathy works far  better in the land of understanding than sharing a common language. It is under such conditions that strangers are  turned into familiars and thorns into flowers and it is under such conditions that a hand of love and affection is held out in  peace and friendliness.
61.3 An approach based on xenophobia and tyranny towards other cultures may well plant the seeds of discord and  hatred, while an approach based on respect for cultural diversity permeates the fertile soil and will lay the seed of a  culture of peace. Whenever and wherever an ethnic or a culture group feels it has been deprived of an appropriate and  logical share in society and the world, it has generated tension and civil unrest by resorting to culture as a tool and this is  an obstacle to the culture of peace. To promote the culture of peace as a prerequisite for a better world, we must resort  to wisdom. Unfortunately, what is known as wisdom in our modern world is nothing more than providing the means for  achieving power and serving personal interests. We should counteract theories that prescribe deconstruction and  reconstruction as the sole means for survival from crises, those who believe in inequality among peoples and cultures,  recommend the clash of civilizations and are of the belief that the most powerful is the end winner. Development does  not take place through a single unified and linear route. Such thinking inevitably destroys the culture of peace. When a  culture is isolated or encircled, the process of politicization of culture occurs, which is an obstacle to the construction and  promotion of the culture of peace.
61.4 Finally, to promote the culture of peace, we should counteract the notion and concept of a self-centred and  exceptionalist approach to culture, which are in conflict with the principle of the culture of peace. I thank you very much.
62. The Moderator:   Thank you very much indeed. Great words promoting the culture of peace. Is there anyone in particular towards  whom you would like to hold out your hand in peace?
63. Mr Saeidabadi (Islamic Republic of Iran):   For sure, UNESCO is the best place for that: under the umbrella of UNESCO, every country can have a chance  for their culture, values and traditions to be seen and heard. I am sure that UNESCO, through different mechanisms and  different programmes, can expand that umbrella so that every country, everybody and every culture extend their hands  and their friendship to other cultures and other people of the world.
64. The Moderator:   Thank you very much. Let us now hear from Malawi.
65.1 Mr Chaponda (Malawi):   Thank you, Mr Moderator. My name is George Chaponda, Minister of Education, Science and Technology of  Malawi. Mr Moderator, it is clear from all the presentations, and even from speakers’ open interventions, that our school  curricula should promote the knowledge, skills, attitudes and values needed to bring about behavioural changes deemed  necessary in building the culture of peace, a culture that will enable children, youth and adults not to condone hatred,  conflict and violence, a culture that will push them to resort to dialogue and to show tolerance when entangled in a wave  of differences, a culture that builds conditions conducive to sustainable peace.
65.2 I have a question though, Mr Moderator. How do we ensure that curricula are all-inclusive? I have no answer,  but this is where the element of cultural diversity needs to be carefully considered. I believe there is need to establish the  best practices from the varied cultures and education systems that could be used as a reference for the review of the  curricula. These best practices could also be used to generate an understanding of cultural diversity, for people to  appreciate the importance of coexistence in pursuit of common goals and objectives such as ours in UNESCO. We  should also note that we have to build a culture of peace from the current situation where, in some cases, young people  are being used as the perpetrators of violence. We should therefore expect to encounter obstacles in the course of  building a culture of peace. We therefore have to prepare mechanisms for dealing with such obstacles as they occur, in  the spirit of peace. My country, for instance, has set up a dialogue group comprising members of civil society, the  government and the general public, which is playing a very significant role in resolving conflict.
65.3 Mr Moderator, Malawi is using food security as a tool to achieve a culture of peace and sustainable  development. As the saying goes, “a hungry man is an angry man”. In this context, we are implementing school feeding  programmes to encourage children who are less privileged and cannot afford education, not because they do not have  school fees, but because of hunger, so that they can enrol and stay until completion of primary school education.  Currently 1.2 million learners in 1,029 schools are benefiting from this programme. It is the wish of the government to  generate adequate resources to reach out to all children. This is one of the paths that we need to realize, a culture of  peace and sustainable development through education. In secondary schools we are building special facilities for girls,  such as girls’ hostels and sanitary facilities, to encourage girls to remain in school. These are some of the interventions  that we need to scale up.
65.4 Mr Moderator, technical and vocational education and training, which has been supported by UNESCO, has  played a central role in imparting employable skills to our youth. However, while we should be striving to train all young  people, it should also be realized that unless we generate employment, or engage them in activities that will use their  skills to fend for their needs, they will remain susceptible to violence and hatred. The Malawi Government, through the  Youth Entrepreneurship Development Programme, has been conducting skills training and providing loans to engage the  trainees in small related enterprises.
65.5 Mr Moderator, a trained and skilled young person who is idle is like a live mine that will accidentally explode on  innocent people. We need to defuse it by keeping youth not only trained, but engaged. This is where we need more  UNESCO. This is where I concur with my colleagues from Kenya and Nigeria that UNESCO needs more funding. Thank  you very much for your attention.
66. The Moderator:   Thank you, Minister, for that excellent intervention. I am conscious of your remarks and the fact that they had  such synergy, as you say, with Kenya and other speakers this morning. Let us go to Cambodia.
67.1 M. Im (Cambodge) :   Madame la Présidente, Excellences, Mesdames et Messieurs, je suis Sethy Im, Ministre de l’éducation, de la  jeunesse et des sports du Royaume du Cambodge. Je me réjouis de l’occasion qui m’est donnée de participer à ce  Forum sur le thème de l’édification d’une culture de la paix et du développement durable. Vous savez que ces deux  notions sont bien différentes, mais qu’elles sont étroitement liées, parce qu’il n’y a pas de développement sans paix.  Comme vous le savez, le Cambodge a mis trois décennies pour retrouver la paix. Le pays a traversé des périodes  difficiles de génocide et de destruction, au cours desquelles 3 millions d’habitants ont été massacrés. À l’issue du régime  des Khmers rouges, il ne restait que 20 % d’enseignants survivants et tous les bâtiments et infrastructures scolaires  étaient presque complètement détruits. Cela veut dire que nous avons dû repartir de zéro. Beaucoup a été fait jusqu’à  présent pour réussir à prendre en charge la population scolaire, qui représente à peu près 3,5 millions d’élèves, soit un  quart de la population. Cela témoigne des importants efforts que nous avons entrepris pour développer le pays, en  considérant l’éducation comme une priorité et un facteur clé en la matière.
67.2 Nous sommes très conscients de la valeur de la paix. Comme vous le savez, retrouver cette paix n’est pas du  tout facile : cela prend du temps, cela fait couler du sang, mais la paix est finalement revenue. Notre tâche est de la  préserver et nous avons estimé que pour instaurer une paix durable, il fallait se consacrer à l’éducation de nos jeunes.  Notre tâche consiste donc à faire accéder à l’école tous les jeunes en âge d’être scolarisés. À présent, le taux de  scolarisation s’élève à 95 % malgré les difficultés rencontrées et aux prix d’efforts considérables. Tout récemment, nous  avons été frappés par des inondations, qui ont affecté plus de 1 300 écoles. Mais nous gardons espoir, car le seul  moyen de développer le pays passe par l’éducation. C’est pourquoi nous essayons de faire bouger les choses en  améliorant les conditions de travail des enseignants, en harmonisant et surtout en préparant nos programmes  d’enseignement. À cette fin, nous avons introduit les disciplines nécessaires y compris l’enseignement relatif aux droits,  notamment les droits de l’homme, et l’initiation des jeunes à la compréhension de la loi anticorruption. En effet, une  bonne gestion est nécessaire, il faut être juste devant les autres. Nous sommes très attachés aux principes de  l'UNESCO, en particulier les quatre piliers de l’éducation – apprendre à être, à connaître, à faire, et à vivre ensemble – que nous avons introduits dans notre système.
67.3 Bien que l’on ait rencontré des difficultés économiques, 5 000 enseignants par an ont été recrutés durant ces  cinq dernières années. Notre tâche est de répondre aux besoins en tenant compte du nombre d’enfants scolarisés, qui  s’élève à 3,5 millions, ce qui est un grand nombre sur une population de 14 millions. Les autres sous-secteurs, par  exemple la jeunesse, ne doivent pas être négligés car dans notre système, le Ministre de l’éducation s’occupe  également de la jeunesse et du sport et les jeunes âgés de 15 à 25 ans représentent 30 % de la population totale. Nous  sommes une population jeune et c’est pourquoi nous avons pensé que pour aider à consolider cette paix et à jouir d’une  paix durable, il fallait accorder de l’importance à la jeunesse. Il faut surtout aider à développer le système  d’enseignement pour répondre aux besoins de ce secteur et c’est pourquoi de notre côté, nous considérons que le rôle  de l'UNESCO est très important et comptons sur son soutien pour aider le Cambodge à l’avenir. Je vous remercie.
68. The Moderator:   Thank you very much indeed, Minister. I cut you short because you were running over and we have a number of  countries yet to speak. I will have to curtail the number of interventions after a while. We have about six or seven more to  get through. But your point is well made about losing so many teachers to the Khmer Rouge and building up education  as a driver for peace, and then your words about protecting peace at all costs. Thank you. Nepal now has the floor.
69.1 Mr Pandey (Nepal):   Thank you, Mr Cole. Madam President, distinguished delegates, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for giving me  the floor. I am Shankar Prasad Pandey, Secretary in the Ministry of Education and head of the delegation. I bring to you  our warmest greetings and best wishes from the land of Mount Everest, the highest peak in the world at 8,848 metres  and the birthplace of Lord Buddha. I feel it a great honour for me to share with you some thoughts on the topic of the  culture of peace for sustainable development which indeed is a matter of topical importance today. I would also like to  pay our deep respects to all of the heads of State and government, as well as to the First Ladies whose well-put ideas  and experiences have enriched our deliberations and given us guidance for a future course of action.
69.2 Situated in South Asia, Nepal is a unique country with its great Himalayas, rich culture, arts and artefacts, and  evident natural resources. There are 103 ethnic groups of people speaking 92 dialects. Nepal is a living museum with all  its historical monuments, palaces, temples and monasteries. Given this wide diversity in socio-economic background, the  hallmark of the people is that they live in peace and tranquillity, maintaining harmonious coexistence. Our cultural  variations have remained a source of peace and there have been no conflicts arising from differences in cultures and
102  religions. Nepal greatly values the importance of peace for development. Socio-economic development is inconceivable  when there is a lack of peace, so peace and development are sine qua non. We consider that the culture of peace must  emanate from the inner heart of the people. Dialogue among stakeholders engenders a culture of peace which ultimately  forms the basis for sustainable development in any country.
69.3 Nepal affords a good example of how an internal armed conflict can be perfectly managed through dialogue,  negotiation and reconciliation processes. After the signing of the Comprehensive Peace Agreement in November 2006,  Nepal’s decade-long armed conflict came to a complete halt. This paved the way for our people to embark on the socio- economic development of the country. The Nepalese people are now fully engaged in the process of making a new  Nepal, whose basic foundation is the economic well-being of the people. We are in the process of writing a new and  inclusive constitution in which the interests of the 26 million Nepalese people will be safeguarded and promoted.  Education is the basis for the overall development of any human being. Cultural empowerment greatly affects socio- economic transformation and an enriched culture saves the psyche of the people of any country. So my delegation  considers that the culture of peace is very important for ensuring the concept of sustainable development. A congenial  socio-economic environment indeed promotes the culture of peace. We highly laud the role being played by UNESCO in  this regard. Thank you for your kind attention.
70. The Moderator:   And thank you very much. A wonderful bastion of culture, Nepal. A lovely country. Reconciling internal dialogue  and building the culture of peace are vital. Algeria, please, and again remember, three minutes.
71.1 M. Sbih (Algérie) :    Mesdames et Messieurs, ma parole ici sera substitutive de celle du professeur Benbouzid, Ministre algérien de  l’éducation nationale. Je me contenterai donc d’en énoncer la substance. Permettez-moi tout d’abord, Mesdames et  Messieurs, de remercier l'UNESCO d’avoir rendu possible cet espace inédit d’échange d’idées et de représentations  quant à l’avenir du monde. Si l’on tient compte du déroulement général de nos débats d’hier et d’aujourd’hui, n’avait-il  donc pas raison cet historien de talent qui aimait à répéter que l’avenir ne se prévoit pas, mais que bien au contraire, il  se prépare. Posons-nous alors la question : quel pourrait être l’avenir du genre humain si, inconscients des nombreux  périls qui menacent aujourd’hui notre monde, nous décidions par manque de volonté politique ou tout simplement par  paresse intellectuelle d’en ignorer la gravité, en faisant comme si ces menaces n’étaient rien d’autre qu’une vue de  l’esprit, comme si les dangers qui pèsent sur notre environnement étaient sans effet quant à l’avenir des générations  futures et de l’écosystème mondial, ou même comme si la paix du monde pouvait se concevoir sans des rapports  politiques et économiques plus justes et mieux équilibrés entre le Nord et le Sud ? On devine donc, à travers ce simple  cas de figure, l’importance de ce Forum des dirigeants, dont l’une des grandes vertus est de permettre à la parole de  l’autre de s’énoncer et, s’il se peut, d’être entendue.
71.2 Mesdames et Messieurs, la volonté commune de travailler ensemble à la construction de la paix et de la  fraternité dans le monde implique pour chacun d’entre nous un surcroît d’efforts afin de garantir l’éducation du plus grand  nombre aux valeurs de la paix et de la convivialité interculturelle, car en ces temps troubles marqués par divers conflits  dans un univers de plus en plus convulsif, l’égotisme dévastateur des hommes gagnerait à s’estomper pour laisser place  à un esprit de plus grande tolérance, de générosité et de convivialité entre les cultures et les civilisations humaines. La  paix du monde étant impérativement à ce prix, je vous invite alors à garder à l’esprit cette belle formule des Écoles  associées de l’UNESCO selon laquelle, je cite : « les guerres prenant naissance dans l’esprit des adultes, c’est dans  l’esprit des enfants que doivent être élevées les défenses de la paix ». Faisons donc ensemble ce pari magnifique  d’œuvrer sans relâche à promouvoir partout une culture de paix et du progrès, de réfléchir ensemble aux conditions d’un  partage plus équitable des richesses mondiales et, en matière culturelle, accordons-nous au moins sur l’idée d’instituer  en ce lieu emblématique qu’est l'UNESCO, une décennie pour l’éducation au patrimoine mondial, patrimoine dont nous  partageons en commun le splendide héritage. Je vous remercie, Mesdames et Messieurs, d’avoir bien voulu me prêter  votre attention.
72. The Moderator:   Thank you very much. A decade of common heritage, I like that very much, and this building towards a culture of  peace, too. Thank you, Algeria. Can we go to Austria, please?
73.1 Mr Waldner (Austria):   Thank you, Mr Cole. I am Wolfgang Waldner, State Secretary at the Ministry for European and International  Affairs in Vienna. I would also like to raise three short points in response to your initial question as to what we expect  from UNESCO in the future and what we can or did already contribute.
73.2 My first point is that sustainable development and a culture of peace are based on education. Education should  therefore lay the groundwork for independent and critical thinking and respect and solidarity for others. As we know,  education for all is already one of UNESCO’s main priorities. It is indeed education for all that leads to respecting  diversity in all its expressions. In a nutshell, education for all means peace and Austria traditionally has attached great  importance to the quality of education. We already have in Austria 74 UNESCO schools, mostly at the secondary school  level, which are committed to the basic principles and the mandate of UNESCO and which integrate those in their  curricula. The students are actively involved in all of UNESCO’s activities and projects.
73.3 My second point is that freedom of opinion and free access to electronic media are, in our view, crucial for the  sustainable development of a society, as we could, and still can, witness in the context of the Arab Spring events. Let me  use a very simple comparison with the traditional transport of goods and people. Countries need roads and railway  systems to guarantee supplies. Governments of course have to provide this infrastructure. Now when it comes to  knowledge and information transfer, governments in the future must also provide the necessary virtual highways  worldwide, of course, and UNESCO can certainly help to achieve and to promote this aim.
73.4 Thirdly, I would also like to refer to the background document of today’s Leaders’ Forum, which calls for  reinforcing intercultural dialogue. The dialogue of cultures is indeed crucial for peace and cooperation between States,  societies and religions. This has been referred to by several previous speakers today. Austria has always been  committed to serving as a platform for global dialogue for cooperation and peace and has a long tradition of intercultural  cooperation and respect for religious pluralism. Vienna was, for instance, the venue for the first Arab European Young  Leaders’ Forum 2010 in cooperation with the League of Arab States, which resulted in the creation of a network of young  people in leading positions in the Arab world and Europe. The next forum, by the way, is planned in Cairo, Egypt, in
2012. Only two weeks ago, Austria, Spain and Saudi Arabia agreed to establish a Centre for Intercultural and  Interreligious Dialogue in Vienna. In addition, and lastly, I would like to announce that we will host the fifth annual Forum  of the United Nations Alliance of Civilizations in 2013 in Vienna; we are delighted that there is cooperation between  UNESCO and the Alliance of Civilizations on the basis of a memorandum of understanding and we are looking forward to  strengthening this cooperation. Thank you very much.
74. The Moderator:   Thank you. Excellent, great intervention. I love the very simple notion that education means peace. I look  forward to that forum in Cairo, as well, next year. Let us go to Timor Leste, and I will ask Timor Leste to speak very  briefly, because you did speak yesterday.
75. Mr Câncio Freitas (Timor Leste):   Thank you, Mr Moderator. My name is João Câncio Freitas, Minister of Education of Timor Leste. I just want to  recall Morocco’s statement delivered yesterday and also those given by Malawi and many other speakers, in terms of  scaling up and subsequently employing youth as a critical part of promoting peace in many of our countries. I come from  a country where 60% of the population is made up of young people aged 14 to 24. That is the biggest challenge for us.  Therefore, we are currently promoting and building the knowledge base for improving literacy programmes, implementing  nine years of compulsory education, and also subsequently establishing technical and vocational education (TVET)  throughout the country, for which we would like to request the support of UNESCO. On top of all of this, expanding the  pool of qualified teachers and also working conditions is quite challenging for us, particularly in view of quality education.  We have created a national qualification framework, whereby all training needs are to be provided within those  parameters. But again, the challenge is so big, not only with regard to resourcing those technical schools, but also in  terms of training the teachers. In all of these priority areas, emphasis will be placed on promoting quality and equity,  including gender equity, in our country. Thank you.
76. The Moderator:   Thank you. These are important points. You face a big challenge because the demographic is so young. This is  the main problem across the Arab countries, and one spillover from the Arab Spring will be job creation. You have to find  and create a lot more jobs following education, or at the same time, perhaps. Anyway, that is a personal observation. Let  us hear from Congo, and I would make the same remark to Congo as to Timor Leste: you spoke yesterday so please  keep it brief.
77.1 M. Makosso (Congo) :   Merci, Madame la Présidente, merci, Monsieur le Modérateur, pour le privilège que vous nous accordez une fois  de plus en nous permettant de prendre la parole ce jour, à l’occasion de cette grande réunion qui permet aux membres  de l'UNESCO de pouvoir échanger sur un thème aussi important que celui qui a été si bien choisi par notre institution :  « Comment l'UNESCO contribue-t-elle à l’édification d’une culture de la paix et au développement durable ? ».  Mesdames et Messieurs, s’agissant des interventions que nous avons suivies hier et aujourd’hui, le Congo partage tout  ce qui a été dit par les orateurs précédents. Cependant, nous voulons ajouter notre contribution à ce thème si important.  Comment faire pour que les membres de l'UNESCO et notre Organisation puissent apporter des solutions durables à  cette question cruciale au regard des défis qui se présentent aujourd’hui à l’humanité entière ? Lorsque nous parlons de  paix, Madame la Présidente, nous avons l’impression que la perception de cette notion n’est pas la même en Occident et  dans les pays en développement, parce que nous constatons qu’un déficit en matière de démocratie entraîne souvent  une mauvaise interprétation ou une mauvaise application de ce concept. C’est pourquoi il ne s’agit pas simplement de  parler du besoin d’éducation des jeunes, mais aussi du fait que les jeunes doivent suivre le modèle des adultes. Voilà  pourquoi il est important que l'UNESCO aide les États à élaborer des stratégies régies par le droit.
77.2 Madame la Présidente, Monsieur le Modérateur, permettez-moi de citer un exemple. Notre pays, le Congo, a  connu des événements très tristes en 1997. Que s’est-il passé ? Tout simplement, l’interprétation du droit, notamment de  l’Acte fondamental, qui était la Constitution de notre pays, n’a pas été la même pour tous. Malgré l’intervention de  l'UNESCO à l’époque, par l’intermédiaire son ancien Directeur général, M. Federico Mayor, la guerre a  malheureusement éclaté en raison de la mauvaise interprétation de notre Acte fondamental. Il est donc essentiel que  l'UNESCO aide les pays à mettre en place, dans la mesure du possible, ces instruments juridiques très importants pour  assurer le respect de la loi fondamentale par ceux qui dirigent. Si la guerre est arrivée chez nous, dans notre pays, c’est  parce que ceux qui le dirigeaient n’ont pas respecté cette loi fondamentale devant laquelle ils avaient prêté serment. Et  les jeunes aujourd’hui, qui ont besoin d’être formés pour ne pas être manipulés par les adultes, ont besoin de cette  culture de la paix. Mais savoir comment y parvenir est justement la grande question, la quête qui nous préoccupe  aujourd’hui.
78. The Moderator:   That is exactly the question: how do we build that culture of peace? I am going to stop you there, because we  have gone over four minutes. That is a wonderful intervention on the question at hand.
79. M. Makosso (Congo) :   Je terminerai en soutenant ce qui a été dit précédemment et en rappelant que nous avons un problème en ce  qui concerne les jeunes qui sont formés mais ne trouvent pas d’emploi, et deviennent alors un terreau favorable pour la  violence, la drogue, etc. Voilà pourquoi nous sommes favorables au fait que l'UNESCO soutienne et accompagne les  États dans cet effort en faveur d’un développement durable pour la paix, car sans développement, on ne peut pas parler  de paix.
80. The Moderator:   Thank you. That is what I asked for at the beginning, advice to UNESCO, what sort of action you want from  UNESCO, so thank you. Let us hear from Tajikistan. Again, please be brief, as we are running out of time rapidly.
81. Mr Tursunov (Tajikistan):   Thank you. Because of the time limit, let me say a few words about one issue that seems to me to be a  fundamental one: building the culture of peace. UNESCO’s document is eloquent. The current challenges to global  peace call for new approaches and models. The culture of peace is a spiritual foundation of global peace, so challenges  to the culture of peace are critical and as such must be addressed very seriously. Today we are faced with a  fundamental contradiction between two main tendencies. On the general theoretical level, we have two main well- founded UNESCO theories. First, sustainable development must take into account both types of diversity – biological  and cultural. Second, cultural diversity is a factor of development. But, looking at culture in the modern world, we are  faced with globalization, mass cultural products aimed at the unification of the norms and ideas of all cultures, be they  ethnic, national or regional. We in Central Asia are very sensitive to the products of post-modern mass culture because  for us, mass cultural products, such as the famous movie named Borat, are not just commercial entertainment. Such  kinds of product are compiled with, or packaged with, ideological propaganda. Culture as such, I mean higher or elite  culture, cannot be a source of conflict, especially inter-civilizational conflict. But mass culture can be. So culture as a  culture of peace needs to be defended as well. However, we understand also that globalization is not the solution. What  remains is systematic and quality education; unfortunately, in an area of such important social activity we have a lot of  practical and even theoretical problems, problems that cannot be solved without UNESCO’s help. Thank you.
82. The Moderator:    Thank you very much indeed for that. Without further ado, let us move to our last speaker from the floor,  Sweden. Again, very briefly, Sweden, for the three minutes please.
83.1 Ms Ohlsson (Sweden):   Absolutely. Thank you so much. I am Birgitta Ohlsson, the Swedish Minister for Democracy and European Union  Affairs Issues. Sustainable development has many components and I would like to highlight two of them – democracy  and gender equality. First, democracy. I think it is important to be steadfast and say that there is only one political system  that is worthy for free citizens and that is democracy. The right to vote, the right to express oneself with a free voice and  respecting minorities is of course fundamental and key. I believe that UNESCO has a very special role in this area and I  applaud the work of Irina Bokova, working especially with issues concerning freedom of expression and freedom of the  press. It is key in this area.
83.2 Second, gender equality. I also believe here that UNESCO has a really important role to play as a watchdog for  human rights for women and girls, because this is crucial to global sustainable development. We know that women are  the main providers in society of food, health and education for their children and this has dramatic effects on the future of  societies. Women have had an important role to play in the Arab Spring and we need to ensure that the women also in  this region are getting greater empowerment for the future.
83.3 The right to education is a universal human right, but we know that still millions of children are not attending  schools and sadly most of them are girls, and that is a shame. The majority of the world’s 1,775 million illiterate adults  are women today and this needs more emphasis in the debate right now. Without increasing the investment in education  for girls and women, the Millennium Development Goals will not be met at all and here Sweden congratulates UNESCO  for this important work, also for sex education. The right to your own body is fundamental to respect for quality and  reproductive health. I would just like to end by underlining that not investing in human rights for women and girls has a  very high price for every single country in the world.
84. The Moderator:   Nobody would argue with that. Thank you, Minister. This deserves applause, because this is the first time we  have heard that this morning. That is very good. Rather than spending hours summing up, I am going to basically give  just one or two headlines from this morning. Good governance is a prerequisite for peace. Education is a building block  of the culture of peace. It is all about education and all about peace linked to education. I cannot say any more than that,  really. Technology cannot bring peace. Peace has to be man-made. Another good observation. I like remembrance  education as a priority. Just by way of further summary, we have, over the last two days, heard 36 speakers yesterday  and 22 speakers today – a wide variety of voices. I want to apologize very sincerely to those not called today. Many of  you had a chance to speak. Some of those who were called did speak yesterday as well, but apologies if you did not get  a chance this morning. I thought the debate and the interventions were of very high quality, well prepared and very  articulate. So, my thanks to all of you for taking part. Let us hear, finally, from Katalin Bogyay, President of the 36th  session of the General Conference. Katalin.
85. The President:   Thank you very much, and thank you, Stephen Cole, a dear friend and former colleague. It is so wonderful that  you were here today and I think that it was a very, very fruitful and interesting morning. So, Madam Director-General, it  was a very good idea of yours to table this topic, for all of us, because it was one that everyone was thinking about. All
105  the speakers from the podium and from the floor have enriched our ideas and our experiences about peace and  sustainable development. Madam Director-General, the floor is yours.
86.1 La Directrice générale :  Merci beaucoup, Madame la Présidente, Mesdames et Messieurs les Ministres, Mesdames et Messieurs les  Ambassadeurs, Mesdames et Messieurs, permettez-moi de dire : quelle diversité, quelle énergie, et quelle passion  pendant ces deux jours ! Et quelle conscience également, aiguë parce que vécue, de la fragilité de la paix – comme l’a  souligné le Président de la République de Côte d’Ivoire, M. Ouattara – et du lien indissociable qui unit la paix et le  développement durable. Pas de paix durable sans réduction de la pauvreté. Sans culture de la paix, pas de  développement durable non plus. Ce sont les deux faces d’une même pièce de monnaie, pour reprendre l’expression du  Premier Ministre du Kenya, M. Raila Odinga – des jumeaux indissociables, pour M. Koupaki, Premier Ministre du Bénin.  Montaigne, Mesdames et Messieurs, écrit dans ses Essais que « l’homme est malmené non pas tant par les  événements que, surtout, par ce qu’il pense des événements ». C’est pourquoi il est bon de réfléchir ensemble.
86.2 Ce Forum nous a donné le témoignage de dirigeants, de leaders, mais surtout d’hommes et de femmes prêts à  engager le dialogue, un dialogue qui n’exclut pas la confrontation, mais qui est déjà un pont jeté entre les peuples et les  cultures, comme l’a souligné le Président Tadić, citant Thomas Mann : le dialogue nous réunit toujours, « c’est le silence  qui isole ». Et je retiens au moins une idée forte, c’est la nécessité de développer une intelligence de la relation – la  seule qui convienne à notre époque de dissémination, comme l’avait souligné M. Johnson Toribiong – c’est-à-dire de  penser ensemble des dimensions trop souvent traitées séparément. Nécessité de concilier le passé et l’avenir aussi. Nul  ne peut être moderne sans garder un lien avec l’histoire. Les traditions nous donnent des savoir-faire pour traiter le  réchauffement climatique ou apaiser les conflits, comme ces tribunaux traditionnels utilisés au Rwanda pour résoudre les  tensions. À nous de les mobiliser, de les partager, de les diffuser. Nécessité également de faire vivre ensemble la  diversité des cultures. Et la parole publique joue ici un rôle majeur, car nous pouvons choisir de faire de la diversité une  source de solution ou un prétexte de division. J’ai vu beaucoup d’hommes et de femmes décidés à faire le bon choix.  Nécessité, enfin, de concilier les aspects matériels et les valeurs, car la crise économique est aussi une crise morale et  le développement durable, pas seulement une question de ressources naturelles. Je retiens cette métaphore de  l’équilibre du sportif, l’équilibre entre le corps et l’esprit, évoqué par M. Pál Schmitt, Président de Hongrie.
86.3 Permettez-moi de remercier tous les dirigeants pour toutes leurs interventions. Je regrette l’absence de certains  dirigeants, comme celle de M. Jonathan Goodluck, Président du Nigéria, un pays qui a été soumis à des extrémismes, à  plusieurs formes de terrorisme et à une attaque contre le multilatéralisme. Je pense que vos interventions renforcent  notre mobilisation autour d’un cap. Lorsque nous sommes engagés dans la mise en œuvre quotidienne des  programmes, nous avons besoin de cette vision d’ensemble, comme le dessin d’une tapisserie sur laquelle on travaille et  qui apparaît dans toute sa clarté lorsqu’on s’éloigne de quelques pas.  (La Directrice générale poursuit en anglais)
86.4 Ladies and gentlemen, Minister-President Kris Peeters reminded us of our conviction that peace needs the  sustainable use of our resources. Prime Minister Tillman Thomas underlined our vulnerability in the face of climate  change and natural disasters. Many of you Ministers intervening during this Leaders’ Forum underlined different aspects  of our commitment to peace and sustainable development and the links emphasizing the very different areas of our  action. Let me just remind you of a few of them, starting with the Minister of Democracy and European Affairs of Sweden,  who underlined a very strong link between democracy, human rights and development and peace, and also education of  women, gender equality, involvement of women, empowering women to participate in all the various aspects of our life.
86.5 I would like to remind you also of the words of the Minister of Education of Afghanistan, calling for UNESCO’s  support for community empowerment, building on a culture of peace through schools and supporting capacity  development and achieving concrete results. I think this is very important. The Minister of Education of Romania spoke of  the importance of educating minorities in their national languages. And then, of course, the Minister of Education of  Norway reminded us of the fragility of this world and we know how much also Norway is committed to cultural diversity.  We all feel deep sympathy in the wake of the terrorist attack. Let me remind you of her words, that a culture of peace and  democracy must be introduced in schools. And this is UNESCO’s mandate. Teaching history remembrance is crucial. I  know that very many of you also evoked UNESCO’s role in Holocaust education. I believe this is also one of our strong  responsibilities. We have to have the lessons of history involved and to teach the generations - the current generation,  our youth – about these lessons of history. I know, mentioning this, how much South Africa contributes also from its own  personal experience and let me remind you of the words of the Minister of Basic Education when she was talking about  the open dialogue for peace and reconciliation and the experience in overcoming the legacy of apartheid. It is so  important nowadays for very many societies and very many countries. I know that a lot of you focused also on  developing the concrete tools for peaceful coexistence, of introducing this diversity and differences in school and  understanding them, like the Minister of Uruguay. Let me also remind you of what the distinguished Minister of Pakistan  also mentioned about the transformative power of an education system. I think this is extremely important.
86.6 All these messages, all your interventions – I cannot enumerate all this synergy and the different ideas that were  expressed during this Leaders’ Forum. I think it has not painted the world in the colours of despair. I would say it is quite  the contrary. We come away from this discussion encouraged strongly by the will that exists to look head-on at  challenges. I think this is very important. Not everything that was said here in this room during the last day and a half was  politically correct, perhaps, but we have tried to innovate. We aimed to have a very open, sincere discussion of the  problems. A strong sense of resolution underpinned this debate – resolution that positive change can and must happen.  This resolution stems from a consensus on the levers that build peace and sustainable development.
86.7 Like the Minister of Pakistan, I believe education comes first, because education is the way to develop respect  for human rights and tolerance. It is also an extremely powerful accelerator which is vital for the achievement of the
106  Millennium Development Goals, and what we want to achieve, sustainability and the development and building of new  “green” societies and economies. Science, of course, comes second, but not in priority. I would say it is the next lever.  Science holds many answers to the questions we face today, starting from poverty alleviation to climate change  adaptation. It is the foundation also for knowledge societies, and must be developed for the benefit of all. It is extremely  important to democratize the achievements of science and to use them for the sustainability of development. And, of  course, we all know that young people are at the front of our minds. As the First Lady of the Dominican Republic said,  meeting their expectations is essential to peace and sustainable development in the century ahead. This century is the  century of youth, because we all know that half of the population, of the seven billion people in the world, are under the  age of 25 and we must tackle this challenge.
86.8 Let me say also something very important and very dear to my heart: that the golden thread woven through all of  our discussion was that of values. Peace and sustainable development are not abstract concepts, ladies and gentlemen.  We cannot decree that they succeed, because they concern individuals. They concern women and men, they concern  communities, they concern societies and they concern real people, and the dignity of these real people, these men and  women, their rights, their capacity to empower themselves to make the right choices must be the moral compass guiding  all our national and international action. As the First Lady of Azerbaijan said, the human mind has no limits. Everyone  must have the right to imagine a better future and the tools to shape this reality. These are, I believe, the stakes of peace  and sustainable development, which is UNESCO’s mission.
86.9 So, let me thank all speakers, especially the Heads of State and Government, Ministers, all of you, for your  participation in this Forum. I believe that the ideas we have shared confirm also the importance of UNESCO today. They  show also strong support for the reform of the Organization and also for our mandate in these areas of the culture of  peace and sustainable development. I hope that all of you present here at this Leaders’ Forum will pass on a strong  message of support for UNESCO’s commitment to the culture of peace and sustainable development, and especially  take the culture of peace message to New York, to the General Assembly of the United Nations, where at this very  moment, this week, the debate about the adoption of a resolution on a culture of peace is being held, and I cannot  imagine a resolution adopted by the General Assembly of the United Nations without mentioning the strong commitment  and engagement of UNESCO in support all of these activities and these ideas.
86.10 The dialogue that we have launched is important and useful, but now comes the time to act. We have important  opportunities to take these ideas forward, from the General Conference to Rio+20 next year. We have also a lot of other  important venues, and we must act at the global level, as called for by President Ali Bongo Ondimba of Gabon.
86.11 Finally, peace, ladies and gentlemen, must be built every day, by each of us. I think that practically every  speaker spoke about sharing and about human solidarity. In the words of the great Polish-born English novelist Joseph  Conrad, the “subtle but invincible conviction of solidarity in dreams, in joy, in sorrow, in aspirations, in hope, which binds  together all humanity – the dead to the living and the living to the unborn”. This “invincible solidarity”, I believe, is the  beating heart of a culture of peace and the foundation for sustainable development. Thank you very much for your  attention.  (Applause)
87.1 The President:   Thank you very much, Madam Director-General, and thank you very much to everybody attending this very  unique Leaders’ Forum. One speaker said yesterday that we are talking about the culture of peace, but we are also talk- ing about the peace among cultures, and this is what we should think about. This morning, I read a mantra, a mantra for  peace, for all of us, by Mr Kapil Sibal, an Indian Minister. I would like to finish this Leaders’ Forum with another poem of  his:  Scripted Consciousness  Misanthropic thoughts  breed hatred for the world  and in the process  fall prey to miseries untold.  If we choose to look within  and script our consciousness,  the world around would cease to   cause the misanthrope distress.  Within all pervasive  humankind where open secrets lie,  the story of life itself   escapes the misanthropic eye.
87.2 Your Excellencies, ladies and gentlemen, peace should be built first in ourselves. I will see you in the afternoon  at three o’clock. Thank you very much for coming. Thank you.  The meeting rose at 1.10 p.m.  La séance est levée à 13 h 10   Se levanta la sesión a las 13.10  Заседание закрывается в 13.10  ربعد الظه ١,١٠رفعت اسلسة يف الساعة    会议于 13 时 10 分结束