1. The President:   Your Excellencies, ladies and gentlemen, good morning. I would like to declare the special plenary meeting  open, and I would like to apologize as I have lost my voice and therefore would like to ask one of the Vice-Presidents of  the General Conference, Ms Shahnaz Wazir Ali, Cabinet Minister of Pakistan, to preside over this morning’s meeting.  Thank you.  Ms Wazir Ali (Pakistan) takes the Chair.
2.1 The President:  Thank you very much, Madam President. It is indeed an honour for me to chair this very special meeting. Good  morning, ladies and gentlemen. Today we will examine item 5.10 “Marking of the tenth anniversary of the UNESCO  Universal Declaration on Cultural Diversity”, document 36 C/51. The special plenary meeting will be divided into two  parts. First we will have the great pleasure and honour of listening to eminent personalities and will reflect on the  challenges and the opportunities of cultural diversity for social cohesion and peace in today’s globalized world. In the  second stage we will examine the related draft resolution.
2.2 It is now a great honour for me to read the statement of the President of the General Conference of UNESCO to  welcome our distinguished guests, Heads of State and Ministers, to this special meeting dedicated to the  commemoration of the tenth anniversary of the adoption of the Universal Declaration on Cultural Diversity.
2.3 Your Excellency Mr Georgi Parvanov, President of the Republic of Bulgaria, Your Excellency Mr Susilo  Bambang Yudhoyono, President of the Republic of Indonesia, Madam Chair of the Executive Board of UNESCO, Madam  Director-General, Excellencies, ladies and gentlemen, dear friends, I take your presence as reaffirming your commitment  to UNESCO’s core principles and aims and especially your commitment to our efforts to preserve and strengthen cultural  diversity. For me, culture represents perpetual motion, like a river seen from a very long distance, from atop a mountain  or through an aeroplane window as it carves out a distinctive shape in the land below. From a distance it looks like a  static, non-dynamic structure; but once you step into it you feel the dynamic flow of the water as it rushes around your  legs with force and power, changing like the essence of water itself to get around the obstacles in its way. Just like a river,  culture is dynamic, adaptive and changing while at the same time forming a structure that defines who we are – our  common values and shared identities at any moment in time and space.
2.4 Akin to a crystal that breaks a single ray of light into a full spectrum of colours, culture reflects our common  experience as one human race split into a plurality of languages, traditions, belief systems and historical pathways. It is  through the acknowledgment of and respect for the diversity of the world’s cultures that we, as human beings, come to  understand and appreciate the core values and aspirations that make humanity one. To respect cultural diversity,  therefore, means to respect life, for, as the renowned Mexican writer, poet and diplomat Octavio Paz warned us, "Every  view of the world that becomes extinct, every culture that disappears, diminishes a possibility of life.” To respect cultural  diversity means to celebrate pluralism as an essential element for averting the negative societal trends of prejudice,  stereotyping, xenophobia, discrimination and exclusion in an ever more globalized world. To respect cultural diversity  means to uphold the universal norms and principles of human rights as the guiding framework for preserving the plurality  of identities and ideas and as a safeguard against the use of cultural diversity for policies and practices contrary to  human rights and dignity.
2.5 This year, the UNESCO Universal Declaration on Cultural Diversity – the first wide-ranging international  instrument that raised cultural diversity to the level of “the common heritage of humanity” – turns ten years old. For me,  the real power of the Declaration lies in fostering the unity of humanity around the principles contained therein. The
345  Declaration manifests its truly unifying force as it puts to rest the false dichotomy between the view of culture as an  intrinsically valuable attribute of human experience that defines our identities, and culture as a vector of development that  contributes to the attainment of internationally agreed development goals and provides income-generating potential  through cultural and creative industries. These two aspects of culture are not mutually exclusive, but, rather,  complementary. The Declaration, while recognizing culture as the basis of creativity, imagination and innovation that  fuels economic as well as social and political development, makes it clear that cultural goods and services are bearers of  identity, values and meaning, and must not therefore be treated as mere commodities or consumer goods. The  Declaration demonstrates its unifying force as it galvanizes partnerships among the key stakeholders representing  international governmental and non-governmental organizations, public institutions, the private sector and civil society.  Following this force, and in close cooperation with our partners worldwide, most importantly the Member States,  UNESCO will continue to translate the principles contained in the UNESCO Universal Declaration on Cultural Diversity  into domestic realities as an essential investment in humanity’s future.
2.6 The Declaration makes the connection between cultural diversity and human dignity explicit and inseparable.  There is another, perhaps more implicit but equally meaningful and intimate, link between the notions of cultural diversity  and culture of peace. It is my deeply held belief that a person who is secure in his or her own identity within a larger  social context will be more open and respectful towards persons belonging to different cultural traditions. Those who are  culturally well-grounded will be less receptive to ideas of hate, intolerance, discrimination and violence. It is through  culture that we acquire awareness of who we are, become conscious of the diversity of identities and value systems  shared by others, and find a satisfactory intellectual, emotional, ethical and spiritual existence. Promoting cultural  diversity, therefore, is tantamount to empowering people to be secure within their own identities and to seek dialogue and  interaction with others. In this sense, promoting cultural diversity, with its potential to channel human energy away from  conflict and towards cooperation, is part and parcel of our struggle for a “culture of peace”. So let us, my dear friends and  colleagues, cherish cultural diversity as a vibrant music made by a polyphonic orchestra of the peoples of the world, and  use UNESCO’s multicultural platform to reflect on ways of transforming the principles of the Universal Declaration on  Cultural Diversity into reality. Our peaceful tomorrow depends on it. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen.
2.7 I shall now give the floor to Her Excellency Madam Eleonora Mitrofanova, Chair of the Executive Board. Please,  Madam, you have the floor.
3.1 Ms Mitrofanova (Russian Federation) (Chair of the Executive Board):   Your Excellency Mr Georgi Parvanov, President of the Republic of Bulgaria, Your Excellency Mr Susilo  Bambang Yudhoyono, President of the Republic of Indonesia, Madam President of the General Conference of UNESCO,  Madam Director-General, dear friends and colleagues, it is a great honour and pleasure for me as the Chair of the  Executive Board to celebrate with you the tenth anniversary of the UNESCO Universal Declaration on Cultural Diversity.  This Declaration is a landmark in the Organization’s history because it sets out the prospect of a more open world  fighting intolerance while underscoring that our creative diversity is a collective force for sustainable development and  peace. UNESCO is the very place where the "fruitful diversity of cultures" meets and flourishes thanks to the "free flow of  ideas” and their endless encounters. As Permanent Delegate of the Russian Federation to UNESCO, I would like to  highlight the active role my country has played, alongside other partners, in making a substantive contribution to the  elaboration and implementation of the principles of the Declaration.
3.2 An anniversary is a time to celebrate and to reflect on what has been accomplished in order to move forward  with sound orientations. Allow me first to recall some landmarks in the work of the Executive Board which has paved the  way to achieving such a wonderful consensus on such a complex declaration. In 2000, the Board engaged in reflection  on cultural diversity to face the challenges raised by the ever-increasing pace of globalization and UNESCO’s role in this  regard. Let me recall the key points of convergence: there was a firm consensus in favour of the principle of a declaration  bearing a new message of cultural diversity – considered a major challenge for our societies in the twenty-first century. In  this regard, it was acknowledged that UNESCO should play the lead role in this field by virtue of its undisputable  competence and experience. There was also a consensus on the form that the declaration should take in order to  become a powerful international moral frame of reference: the text, followed by a number of main lines of action, ought to  be short, dense, synthetic, constructive and positive if it was to be widely recognized by the international community.  During the intensive deliberations and consultations, two main trends emerged. The first consisted in urging UNESCO to  tackle the question of cultural diversity in the context of respect for human rights in order to ensure the peaceful and  harmonious coexistence of the various cultures to be found in a single country. The second trend consisted in making the  difference of cultural goods and services the focus of reflection in the context of rapid globalization without overlooking  the ethical importance of the declaration and the links between human rights and cultural rights. This huge endeavour  made it possible to identify a number of principles, themes and ideas which should be given a central place in the  declaration. Two major concerns became apparent: inclusiveness and empowerment. The former reflected the need to  ensure respect for all cultural identities and the participation of all in democratic States, and the latter the need to  promote the emergence of a climate conducive to the full realization of the creative capacities inherent in each individual,  in order to render culture a real driver of development. To meet these two requirements, we had to base ourselves on the  fundamental principles that give meaning to all action in support of cultural diversity: the need to respect and ensure  respect for human rights and democracy, the principle of free circulation of ideas and pluralistic media, and the link  between cultural diversity and development. In other words, the three-dimensional concept of Diversity, Dialogue and  Development had emerged.  (The speaker continues in Russian)
(3.3) (translation from the Russian) Ladies and gentlemen, I shall now speak in Russian. Although one decade on, the  Declaration is as relevant as ever and one of the fundamental regulators in international law governing relations in the sphere  of cultural diversity, we can see that a new phase has begun in its evolution, which requires the development of new  approaches, strategies and policies, responding the challenges of the day. In our time there has been a paradigm shift in many  global processes, which have still not been clearly defined. A multitude of questions has arisen to which it is very difficult to  find worthy and universally acceptable answers.
(3.4) In the course of the past 20 years, UNESCO has witnessed various large-scale changes in the world. Changes have  taken place not only on the geopolitical level but on the technological level. We are living in a globalized, computerized society,  in a “world without borders”. This makes communication and the dissemination of information easier and faster, and at the  same time brings tension in society into clearer focus, exacerbating conflict and the emergence of crises, and turning local  problems into regional and even global ones. This is evidenced by the wave of sweeping changes that have taken hold very  recently in the Arab world.
(3.5) Furthermore, it may be said that globalization, with its powerful impact on culture, is not really helping to preserve the  cultural heritage but on occasion, on the contrary, is confronting the world with cultural threats, including that of linguistic  standardization. Inequality between regions, societies and people is deepening, in a fundamental, tendentious way. Growing  intolerance, hatred and extremism, local conflicts and wars – these are all daily and serious challenges to the international  community as a whole.
(3.6) At the same time, the world is experiencing a far-reaching financial, economic and ecological crisis. Furthermore,  migration on a global scale has gained impetus. International migration has become one of the main factors in tension both in  countries from which people are emigrating (the “brain drain” factor) and in the host countries where, as a rule, the
347  “management of immigration” is not effective. The movement of large groups of people has begun within every continent and  also between continents. This engenders certain problems for governments in the conduct first of domestic and then foreign  policy. In these circumstances, the two parallel, essential problems – the preservation of cultural diversity and cultural  originality on the one hand, and the development of intercultural dialogue on the other – have taken on unprecedented  importance and relevance. Today, the world’s countries essentially see themselves as the new Babylon the Great. No one  society in the world can be described as a single ethnic group. There are positive and negative aspects to this.
(3.7) In the light of these processes, many States in recent years have started to seek new approaches and methods to  resolve the problems arising from intercultural interaction. This process is under way in various countries, with varying degrees  of success. In some States there are increasingly frequent reports of the collapse of the concept of multiculturalism, which,  relatively recently, was upheld by the leaders of such western European countries as Germany, the United Kingdom and  France. Multiculturalism, intercultural dialogue, culture of peace – these are the very ideas underlying the specific policy of  individual countries. So can we talk about the failure of these ideas, or rather of the policy, which in part replaces tolerance  with indifference and integration with the separate existence which, as we know, eventually leads to interethnic and  interdenominational tension?
(3.8) Together, these trends constitute a serious impediment to the achievement of internationally-agreed development  goals and to the establishment of lasting peace and security. No sustainable development strategy can be neutral in cultural  terms. How can we achieve success on the road from dialogue to peace?  How can we rethink the present policy, and what  new policy should we adopt? How can we determine new approaches aimed at contributing to peace, dialogue and mutual  respect, or make better use of the experience acquired in this field?
(3.9) Clearly, with this rethinking and review of the concept of “global attachment to dialogue”, if we, the Members States  of UNESCO, do not step up our efforts to preserve diversity by means of establishing open dialogue and exchange of opinions,  both within our countries and at the regional and international levels, the end result could be social alienation and a breakdown  in the deep bonds within society and between communities.  (The speaker continues in English)
3.10 Ladies and gentlemen, as I have already had the opportunity to emphasize on the occasion of my election as  Chair of the Executive Board, in this difficult period the world has the right to expect from us reasonable and weighted  solutions in the spheres of UNESCO’s competence, directed towards the creation of confidence, tolerance and mutual  understanding, in other words, what our Organization was created for. Since the world we live in is ever more  homogeneous on a global level and ever more heterogeneous on a local level, in order to thrive, every human group  must have confidence in its cultural identity while adopting open and tolerant attitudes to cultural diversity, in other words,  to everything unusual which is in conformity with human dignity. It is perfectly possible for cultures to exist side by side  and yet to remain ignorant of one another. So “rapprochement of cultures” is less about this coexistence of cultures than  about an interaction which leads them to break out of their mutual ignorance and misperception in order to become part  of a wider polyphonic concert.
3.11 The thematic discussion of the Executive Board held during its 185th session in October last year on the theme  of intercultural dialogue in the 2010s: revisiting policies within the context of a culture of peace, could be considered one  of the practical examples of UNESCO’s efforts in rethinking multiculturalism practices. In the twenty-first century,  UNESCO’s mission and positive practices remain more relevant than ever: to promote respect for the “fruitful diversity of  cultures”; in other words, to share a positive vision of diversity that goes beyond its simple recognition and celebration as  it weaves a web of links among nations, communities, groups and individuals. In this context, the fruitful diversity of  cultures is considered to be a unique renewable resource for the provision of meaningful responses to our uncertain  future by identifying the dividends of diversity and dialogue in order to build confident intercultural relations for a lasting  global peace. I wish a happy birthday to our Declaration and I renew our collective hope that one day it may acquire the  same force as the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. Thank you for your attention.
4. The President:   Thank you very much indeed, Madam Chair. I now have the pleasure to give the floor to the Director-General,  Madam Irina Bokova.
5.1 The Director-General:   Your Excellency Mr Susilo Bambang Yudhoyono, President of the Republic of Indonesia, Your Excellency Mr  Georgi Parvanov, President of the Republic of Bulgaria, Your Excellency Dr Nassif Hitti, representative of the Secretary- General of the League of Arab States, Your Excellency Mr Henri Lopes, Ambassador of the Republic of Congo in France  and former Assistant Director-General of UNESCO for Culture and External Relations, Your Excellency Mr Miguel Angel  Estrella, Ambassador, Permanent Delegate of Argentina to UNESCO, Goodwill Ambassador to UNESCO, Madam  President of the General Conference, Madam Chair of the Executive Board, Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, before I  start, I have the pleasure of reading the message from the Secretary-General of the United Nations, Mr Ban Ki-moon:
5.2 “Ten years ago, in the aftermath of the terrorist attacks of September 11, 2011, UNESCO Member States  adopted the Universal Declaration on Cultural Diversity. In an ever more interconnected world, and in our ever more  mixed societies, ignorance of each other’s ways can be a cause of mistrust, tension and conflict. This landmark  declaration sets out the principles for embracing the “fruitful diversity of cultures” and tackling the related challenges.  Cultural diversity is our common heritage. Its protection is an ethical imperative, inseparable from respect for human  dignity. But making the most of cultural diversity calls for new policies of inclusion and participation. Over the past  decade, thanks in large part to the action and advocacy of UNESCO, the United Nations family has increasingly  recognized cultural diversity as an invaluable ally in the service of sustainable development and our efforts to achieve the  Millennium Development Goals. We are keenly aware that there can be no “one-size-fits-all” development model, and  that to deliver better results, projects must reflect the needs, aspirations, priorities and cultures of their beneficiaries. On  this tenth anniversary of the adoption of the UNESCO Universal Declaration on Cultural Diversity, let us reaffirm our
348  conviction that cultural diversity is a strength, not a weakness. We must never tire in making this case. Let us all commit  to strengthening our cultural literacy.”
5.3 This was the message, ladies and gentlemen, of the Secretary-General of the United Nations, Mr Ban Ki-moon.  So, maintenant je passe au français.   (The Director-General continues in French)
5.4 La Déclaration universelle de l’UNESCO sur la diversité culturelle est un texte qui a, je dirais, cette puissance  des idées qui mûrissent longtemps dans l’esprit des hommes et des femmes, et qui émergent un jour avec la clarté, la  sincérité et l’autorité de ceux qui reviennent d’un long voyage à travers l’histoire et la géographie. Depuis 10 ans, cette  autorité n’a fait que croître. La reconnaissance de la diversité des expressions culturelles a permis une approche plus  fine, plus ouverte et plus égalitaire de la culture et des moyens de préserver celle-ci, dans toutes ses composantes. La  prise en compte de la diversité des manières de vivre et de penser la culture a ouvert un champ considérable à la  promotion des droits de l’homme. Elle permet de promouvoir plus efficacement certains droits universels, comme le droit  de chacun à participer à la vie culturelle, le droit de parler sa langue maternelle, le droit d’accéder aux technologies de  l'information, aux progrès de la science. L’esprit de cette déclaration irrigue depuis 10 ans la réflexion de l’ensemble du  système des Nations Unies sur le développement, sur les moyens de construire la paix – et les Conventions de  l’UNESCO pour la sauvegarde du patrimoine culturel immatériel ou sur la protection et la promotion de la diversité des  expressions culturelles, s’en inspirent directement.
5.5 La diversité culturelle est une réalité dans nos villes et dans nos pays. C’est une ressource inestimable pour le  renouvellement des idées et des sociétés. La diversité des expressions culturelles pose également des questions sur la  façon de construire la paix entre les nations, sur les moyens d’assurer la cohésion de sociétés de plus en plus  hétérogènes. Nous savons ce qu’il advient lorsque les préjugés, le fanatisme ou le repli sur soi l’emportent sur l’envie de  vivre ensemble. Nous l’avons vu dernièrement à Abuja et en Norvège, et nous avons encore tous le souvenir du
11 septembre 2001. La diversité culturelle est une réalité : cette réalité appelle à développer des politiques publiques  fortes, inclusives, capables d’en tirer le meilleur, sans naïveté, sans complaisance. La protection de la diversité est  inséparable du respect de la personne, et nul ne saurait s’en servir comme excuse pour porter atteinte aux droits de  l’homme. La diversité est bien le « milieu ambiant » de l’humanité – aussi importante pour le genre humain que la  biodiversité pour la nature. Je garde en mémoire les mots du philosophe Edgar Morin, invité l’an dernier à l’UNESCO  pour la Journée mondiale de la philosophie – je le cite : « Nous n’avons jamais accès à la « Culture » avec un C  majuscule, mais seulement à la diversité des cultures. Nous n’avons jamais accès à la « Langue » avec un L majuscule,  mais à la diversité des langues ». Et c’est pourquoi, Mesdames et Messieurs, c’est nécessairement à partir de la  diversité du réel, et à travers le dialogue interculturel, que nous faisons émerger l’universel – un universel authentique  d’autant plus robuste qu’il s’est forgé au contact de la pluralité du monde comme avec notre programme « Tagore,  Neruda, Césaire » ici à l’UNESCO.
5.6 La réalité de la diversité culturelle commande de donner aux jeunes, notamment, des compétences inter- culturelles beaucoup plus fortes, en histoire, en langues, en sociologie, qui les aident à appréhender la diversité  culturelle, à surmonter leurs différences et à construire des valeurs communes. Je sais que c’est un combat qui vous  tient particulièrement à cœur, Monsieur Henri Lopez, et je voudrais saluer votre engagement d’intellectuel, de poète.  Vous avez dit de l’écrivain qu’il est « un artisan, qui s'évertue à jeter de la lumière sur l'impalpable » et c’est bien, je crois,  ce dont il est question ici. Cela commence par le partage de l’histoire, même parfois le partage de l’histoire récente, et je  sais comment vous, Monsieur Miguel Estrella, vous êtes investi pour trouver la vérité dans votre pays, l’Argentine, après  la chute du régime militaire. Et cela commence par le partage, aussi, de l’histoire commune. Le 1er février, j’étais au  camp d'Auschwitz-Birkenau, à la tête d’une délégation de plus de 150 dirigeants politiques et religieux, parmi lesquels de  nombreux représentants des pays arabes et musulmans. Je garde en mémoire les mots du Dr Mustafa Ceric, Grand  Mufti de Bosnie, qui a dit à cette occasion : « Nous devons enseigner à tous nos jeunes ce qui s'est passé ici, qu’ils  soient dans les mosquées, dans les églises ou dans les synagogues ». J'ai vu, en Europe du Sud-Est, le pouvoir de la  culture de surmonter les différences, et la manière dont d’anciens belligérants, en Bosnie-Herzégovine, ont travaillé  ensemble à la reconstruction du pont de Mostar. Et je voudrais saluer le Président Parvanov pour son action exemplaire  dans la région, son engagement à faire de la culture une passerelle entre les peuples, et à créer des « corridors  culturels », pour dépasser les nationalismes.
5.7 Il y a quelques semaines j'étais à Belgrade, au Sommet des chefs d’État de l’Europe du Sud-Est, pour lancer  l’initiative « La culture : un pont vers le développement – utiliser les réseaux d'artistes comme vecteurs de dialogue et de  réconciliation, mobiliser les autorités locales et les professionnels de la culture ». Le partage de l’histoire, le dialogue  interculturel, cela ne s’improvise pas : cela s’apprend. Il faut beaucoup de temps, beaucoup de patience, la raison d’être  de l’UNESCO est d’accélérer ce mouvement, d’aider au partage des expériences, et je me réjouis de la présence parmi  nous du Président de la République d’Indonésie, cet archipel de la diversité qui compte plus de 17 000 îles, plusieurs  centaines de groupes ethniques et plus de 600 langues parlées. Votre présence est un cadeau, Monsieur le Président.  (La Directrice générale poursuit en anglais)
5.8 Ladies and gentlemen, promoting cultural diversity and intercultural dialogue is a most powerful way to build  bridges and lay the ground for peace. It is also a force for development and the condition for better development policies  – by local communities and governments and by the international community. We know too many examples of well- intended development measures that did not integrate culture. These were doomed to fail. There can be no sustainable  development that ignores local cultural circumstances, that puts aside the wealth of cultural diversity. Strong steps are  being taken to recognize the value of cultural diversity for development. The World Bank acknowledges that cultural  industries are accelerators of economic growth and human development.
5.9 There is similar thinking today in the World Trade Organization (WTO), the Food and Agriculture Organization of  the United Nations (FAO) and the World Health Organization (WHO). Our case is being heard – more importantly, it is  being acted on. Our case that cultural context, local medicine and traditional forms of solidarity should be accepted today  as preconditions for the sustainability of health and vaccination campaigns is being heard. Agricultural policies are  reaping better harvests by integrating local perceptions of land and seeds. Cultural diversity is increasingly taken on  board to support media pluralism and the promotion of multilingualism. Last December, the United Nations General  Assembly adopted a landmark resolution on culture and development. This shows a historic shift is under way in how we  perceive the role of culture for development. We have come a long way in ten years, but we have still far to go. As the  Secretary-General stated, the bold contrasts in the world today show there is no “one-size-fits-all development model.”  Recognizing the power of cultural diversity for development can open the door to ever greater opportunities, to new ways  of thinking. This is not a goal in itself – it is the way to achieve all of our goals, including the Millennium Development  Goals. This idea guides UNESCO as we prepare for the 2012 United Nations Conference on Sustainable Development  in Rio.
5.10 So, ladies and gentlemen, societies are ever more complex. The ‘local’ has never been so close to the “global.”  At such a time of change and uncertainty, cultural diversity has perhaps never been so vital – as a source of identity for  every woman and man, as a source of resilience and renewal for our societies, as a source of innovation and creativity  for development. These are the promises held out by the UNESCO Universal Declaration on Cultural Diversity. The  promises that no society should retreat into fear, that cultures of exclusion should not be allowed to arise, and that the  responsibilities of leaders and governments have never been so great. Peace is built every day through individual, even  small acts that recognize and draw on the wealth of diversity to open our societies. This starts with dialogue and debate.
5.11 I am extremely honoured this morning by the presence of so many distinguished and longstanding partners of  UNESCO in the promotion of cultural diversity. I see such high-level, rich participation as a sign of strong commitment  and engagement. At this very moment, you may rest assured that mine has never been so strong. Thank you very much  for your attention.
6. The President:   Thank you very much, Madam Director-General. Ladies and gentlemen, I now have the special pleasure of  introducing His Excellency Mr Susilo Bambang Yudhoyono, President of the Republic of Indonesia. His Excellency Mr  Susilo Bambang Yudhoyono, popularly known as “SBY”, was elected as the sixth President of the Republic of Indonesia  in 2004. President Yudhoyono is an accomplished scholar, having authored a number of books and articles. He was  educated both in the United States and in Indonesia and has numerous degrees in a variety of fields including law,  political science, agricultural economics and management. During his 27-year distinguished military service, President  Yudhoyono held numerous important posts. For his outstanding service, he has been decorated with 24 medals and  awards, including the Bintang Republik Indonesia Adipurna, the highest national medal for excellent service beyond the  call of duty. Prior to being elected, President Yudhoyono held various important government positions, including Minister  of Mining and Energy and Coordinating Minister for Political, Social, and Security Affairs in the National Unity Cabinet  under both President Abdurrahman Wahid and under President Megawati Soekarnoputri. It was in his capacity as  Coordinating Minister that he became internationally recognized for leading Indonesia’s international counter-terrorism  efforts. We are indeed honoured by your presence, Your Excellency. The floor is yours.
7.1 Mr Yudhyono (President of Indonesia):  Thank You. Bismillah ir-rahman ir-rahim. As-salamu 'alaikum wa rahmatu llahi wa-barakatuh (Peace and the  mercy and blessings of God be upon you). May peace be upon us.
7.2 Your Excellency Madam Katalin Bogyay, President of the 36th session of the General Conference, Your  Excellency Madam Eleonora Mitrofanova, Chair of the Executive Board, Your Excellency Madam Irina Bokova, Director- General of UNESCO, Your Excellency Mr Georgi Parvanov, President of Bulgaria, Excellencies, distinguished delegates,  ladies and gentlemen, I am honoured to be here to address the 36th session of the General Conference of UNESCO. I  stand here before you representing a nation that proudly considers itself a bastion of multiculturalism. Indonesia, with  over 300 ethnic groups, is arguably the world's most ethnically diverse nation. Since independence, successive  generations have passionately lived by the motto Bhinneka Tunggal lka – “unity in diversity”. Whether one comes from  the largest Javanese ethnic group or the smaller Buginese or Acehnese ethnicity, everyone has equal rights, an equal  stake and equal ownership in the grand Indonesian family tree. Multiculturalism therefore is very much part of our  national DNA, a formula for national survival and a necessary pathway for future generations.
7.3 Indonesia today is an archipelago of peace and tolerance. But this is not something that we take for granted.  History is littered with examples of harmonious communities turned into sworn enemies overnight. As we step into the  twenty-first century, managing diversity in the midst of rapid modernization and globalization remains for us a critical  challenge today and for the future. And I believe this is also true for the rest of the community of nations. It is therefore  timely that we gather today to mark the tenth anniversary of the UNESCO Universal Declaration on Cultural Diversity.  This declaration signifies our conviction that multiculturalism will be a driving force in the twenty-first century, a  benevolent creative force that will change and shape the international system. But this, too, is not a given. When I refer  to culture, I refer not just to traditional customs and folklore, but also to a whole system and sub-system of values and  norms and mindsets, wisdom, technologies, ways of being and doing. And because culture is something that belongs to  the soul, when peoples and cultures interact - especially on such scale and at such speed - not everything will be smooth  and happy. Sensitivities abound. Frictions can erupt; sometimes, even conflict. So the question that looms large before  us is this: how do we harness our rich cultural diversity to be a constructive force to foster a world of peace, justice and  progress that we all yearn for? How do we ensure that the promotion of cultural diversity leads to greater democracy and  better protection of human rights, and to a better balance between freedom and tolerance? It is a daunting task, but it is
350  all the more relevant because the cultures of the world contain many powers: the power of life and love, the power to  heal, the power to build and nurture, the power of survival and the power of posterity. With the wrong approach, culture  can divide; with the right approach, it can unite. And there are always surprising ways in which cultural factors can hold  the key to the solution, be they in conflict resolution, in climate change, in democracy or in economic development. In  climate change, for example, we in Indonesia found it prudent to go back to basics by "going green" and to intensify the  protection of our rain forests, because our ancestors’ way of life has always revolved around love for mother earth. In  conflict resolution, we have promoted various forms of peaceful resolution by strongly factoring in local cultural  considerations; for example in Aceh and Papua, and in Poso.
7.4 And in democracy, we have embarked on what some have called "the quiet revolution", the most ambitious  decentralization and local elections programme that has transferred substantial political, economic and socio-cultural  autonomy to the provinces and regions. Indeed, as Indonesia transforms into a vibrant democracy and an emerging  economy, we have increasingly found that our rich culture is an indispensable asset. That is why my fellow Indonesians  are very proud of the fact that in recent years, UNESCO has officially recognized several of Indonesia's cultural icons in  the Representative List of Intangible Cultural Heritage of Humanity of the world, namely keris, wayang, batik and  angklung, after also designating the great Borobudur Temple Compounds, the Prambanan Temple Compounds and the  Sangiran Early Man Site as world cultural heritage. Through me, Indonesians would like to convey to UNESCO, “Thank  you, from the bottom of our hearts.”
7.5 Ladies and gentlemen, we mark the tenth anniversary of the UNESCO Universal Declaration on Cultural  Diversity in a time of change and anxiety in the international system. Outside the walls of this building, we see the onset  of a new world, a world in an uneasy process of rebirth. And in that new world, we see a rapid mental and political shift  taking place – changing markets, changing nations and a changing international system. As the world unravels, one  critical phenomenon stands out, one which is of relevance to both the developed and developing countries. It is called  “confidence”. Many have observed that in much of Europe, and in other parts of the western world, there is a trend of  declining confidence - some even call it a "crisis of confidence". Governments are under severe pressure. Businesses  are holding back. The youth are getting restless. Societies are gripped with anxiety and self-doubt about their future.  People are bracing for short-term shocks, and shying away from long-term plans. Much of this problem of confidence  stems from economic difficulties. When growth slows down, joblessness rises and costs go up, people naturally become  wary. They begin to tighten their belt, spend less and worry more. I raise this issue because - as empirical evidence  suggests – declining confidence could potentially impact on the issue of identity. When people become insecure, there is  a temptation to raise barriers and to increasingly ask "who are we?" and "who are we becoming?" – questions that have  been raised by all societies for thousands of years, with different answers. In uneasy times, in the defence of such  identity, there is greater potential for societies to become more exclusive and less tolerant in cultural terms.
7.6 My humble advice, for whatever it is worth, is this: do not give in to such temptation. In fact, go the other way. In  the face of difficult times, embrace openness and cultural diversity with greater determination. In the wake of growing  pressures, find solutions by reaching out to one another. And in times of misfortune, be more kind and compassionate.  This is what we did in Indonesia during the economic and political crisis in the late 1990s. During that transition, we  thoroughly reviewed our regional and ethnic policies with all our stakeholders and made the necessary reforms to suit the  new reality. And we made sure that our new-found democracy was responsive to the aspirations of our very diverse  citizens. And in time, we in Indonesia overcame our crisis and our self-doubt and emerged to become the strong vibrant  democracy that we are today. And not just in Indonesia, in many parts of the developing world, we see a different kind of  phenomenon: a surge of confidence. To some degree, that surge of confidence stems from economic performance: high  growth, a rising middle-class, less poverty, corporate success, capital gains and expanding prosperity. This new-found  confidence is a healthy trend, one which we should all try to nurture. But just as we ask the developed world not to  succumb to restive nationalism, the developing world must also be careful that its new-found confidence does not spark  ultra-nationalism or arrogant nationalism. Just as in economics we expect the G20 to deal with financial crisis by avoiding  protectionism, in the cultural sphere we also expect nations to avoid cultural exclusivism. There is always a risk when  things are going too well; people tend to believe they are invincible, which can lead to inflated judgments. There is no  need to exchange an inferiority complex for a superiority complex - neither of which does us any good. Indeed, in  addressing economic as well as cultural challenges, the remedy is the same: greater openness and more collaboration.  Indeed, in the spirit of the UNESCO Universal Declaration on Cultural Diversity, the challenge of our time is how best to  promote and protect healthy multiculturalism worldwide. As we look across the world today, we are so delighted that in  east and west, north and south, multiculturalism is fast becoming the new global “PC”, the new "politically correct". All  over the world, people are wearing their ethnic identity on their sleeves with pride. Being open to other cultures, and  learning from them, is now generally seen as a formula for progress and success. Diversity is increasingly seen as a real  asset, in politics and markets, in our schools and communities. Unfortunately, the rise of multiculturalism globally is also  met with growing signs of intolerance – in both the West and the East. There are new pockets of ethnic, racial and  religious tensions. And this is not necessarily confined to the poor. Intolerance also emanates from parts of the middle  class and the rich. I am realistic enough to admit that in our lifetime we will not totally rid the world of bigotry, prejudice,  hatred and conflict. But I am also pragmatic enough to believe that in our lifetime we can make the forces of  multiculturalism, moderation and pluralism the mainstream of the world community. This is why multiculturalism should  not stand alone, but should be coupled with a spirit of unity. It is not enough for cultures to occupy their rightful spaces in  the socio-political stadium. When a sense of unity among cultures is lacking or missing, there will be an unhealthy  disconnect among them, and multiculturalism becomes artificial or worse: conflict-bound. Thus, there must be cross- cultural efforts to respect and embrace one another as part of one big family of humanity. There must be genuine interest  and sincere goodwill in cultural interactions - which form the basis of a culture of peace that is sorely needed in the  international system. And this positive, united multiculturalism must be part of the new globalism that is now emerging.  And as we all know, this new twenty-first century globalism will need plenty of new thinking, new ideas and new
351  approaches, and even new courage, to tackle the momentous issues of our time - from climate change to extremism,  from globalization to food security, from infectious diseases to growing inequity. With all these challenges, I believe that  to fulfil its promise, multiculturalism must also be coupled with meritocracy.
7.7 Multiculturalism is about creating a world which thrives on diversity. Meritocracy is about ensuring a world driven  by equal opportunity for all. This is critically important because we are likely to see an explosion of the middle class  around the world. In Asia alone, for example, it is predicted that there will be three billion additional people joining the  middle class by 2050.They will be educated, they will pay taxes and have skills. They will have email accounts, bank  accounts and modern digital tools. And most importantly, they will be more – not less – proud of their heritage. If we  combine multiculturalism with meritocracy, we can unleash enormous creative powers that will cure many of our troubles.  This is true for both the developed and the developing world. For we now have a window of opportunity to forge a new  perspective on the state of the world. I say this because in the twentieth century, during the Cold War, we all lived under  the dark cloud of what was called “peaceful coexistence”. Honestly, as a young military officer back then, I never liked  that term. It was a passive, gloomy term driven by fear of one another. The human race should aim for far more than just  the lowest common denominator of aiming to coexist. In the twenty-first century, with the bipolar world behind us and a  multipolar world in the making, we have the opportunity to create a world marked by “synergized progress”. This means  nations will do more than just "peacefully coexist" but we shall actually work together in synergy to achieve common  progress. This world of “synergized progress” will be much more durable and dynamic than the fragile world of peaceful  coexistence. And it would afford ample space for all cultures of the world to flourish, because every nation will have the  opportunity to bring their cultures, along with their ideas and products, to the international arena. This is actually what we  are trying to do by working towards the ASEAN Community. We are intensifying efforts to attain the ASEAN Socio- Cultural Community, which is a vision of a healthy regionalism which draws strength from the region's enormous diversity,  in terms of religion, race and ethnicity. We are convinced that in the South-East Asia region, characterized by immense  cultural and religious diversity, the best vehicle for regional cooperation and for durable peace would be an open and  inclusive approach towards cultural connections. We understand full well that there can be no durable ASEAN family  without mutual respect for our cultural diversity. So, as we mark the tenth anniversary of the UNESCO Universal  Declaration on Cultural Diversity, we must look forward with renewed purpose.
7.8 Ladies and gentlemen, let me close with this final thought. Societies have lived for too long under the divisive  notion of “us and them”. It is time for us to evolve a different approach. It is time for us to evolve that “new we”. That “new  we” directs us to see bridges instead of divides; to prize our common future rather than lament our troubled past. That  “new we” compels us to look at those who are different from us in a profoundly new way. That “new we” shall make all of  us united in diversity. Let us work together to advance that “new we” and thus remake the world anew. Thank you. As- salamu 'alaikum wa rahmatu llahi wa-barakatuh (Peace and the mercy and blessings of God be upon you).
8. The President:   Thank you, Your Excellency, for a very inspiring and thought-provoking address. We now have the pleasure of  hearing His Excellency Mr Georgi Parvanov, President of the Republic of Bulgaria. His Excellency Mr Georgi Parvanov,  President of Bulgaria, aside from a long and distinguished political career, is also a scholar in his own right, as the  Director of the Centre for History and Policy Studies with the Supreme Council of the Bulgarian Socialist Party. President  Parvanov has worked actively for Bulgaria’s European and Euro-Atlantic prospects, helping to lead Bulgaria into the  European Union in 2007. In domestic policy, President Parvanov balances a social sensitivity with political dialogue in  order to rally parties and institutions around Bulgaria’s nationally strategic goals. President Parvanov is a fervent  proponent of the concept of “cultural corridors” in South-Eastern Europe in the framework of the annual meetings of  heads of States of the region. He graduated from the Faculty of History of the St Kliment Ohridski University of Sofia and  is married with two sons. President Parvanov, it is a pleasure to have you with us today. The floor is yours, Your  Excellency.
9.1 Mr Parvanov (President of Bulgaria)  (Statement delivered in Bulgarian; interpretation into English):   Madam President, Madam Director-General of UNESCO, Excellencies, Ministers, distinguished delegates,  ladies and gentlemen, it is a great pleasure and an honour for me to be present here to collectively celebrate the tenth  anniversary of the adoption of the UNESCO Universal Declaration on Cultural Diversity. Today we clearly see that its  adoption provided the impetus for the efforts to achieve humanity’s age-old dream of a world without war, without poverty,  free from the fear of tomorrow. In fact, it is a platform whose vision is to create conditions for the elaboration of  international and national instruments aimed at ensuring peaceful coexistence of different cultures, traditions and historic  heritage. For the first time in history, commitment to human rights and fundamental freedoms is seen as a guarantee of  cultural diversity. The Declaration considers culture and efforts to protect cultural diversity to be an ethical imperative,  inseparable from respect for freedom and human dignity.
9.2 Today, as we celebrate the tenth anniversary of the adoption of the UNESCO Universal Declaration on Cultural  Diversity, it is important to point out that this Declaration is not something unchanging, given once and for all. Against the  background of the ongoing dynamic discussion and deepening globalization, in less than two years UNESCO prepared  the Convention on the Protection and Promotion of the Diversity of Cultural Expressions, adopted in October 2005, to  which Bulgaria became a party in 2007. The objective of this new Convention is to give recognition to the distinctive  nature of cultural activities as vehicles of identity and values, different from other goods and services. Under the  provisions of the Convention, the Parties assume responsibility to maintain, adopt and implement policies and measures  to safeguard and promote the diversity of cultural expressions, to develop and promote the free exchange and circulation  of ideas and artistic achievements. However, the most important message of the Convention is the idea of reinforcing  international cooperation in this area. This new stage in the activities aimed at protecting cultural diversity has brought to  the forefront the link between culture and development, as well as the link between culture and international solidarity, on
352  the one hand, and between culture and mutual understanding, on the other hand. The Parties have assumed the  responsibility not only to formally accept the ideas of the Convention and the Declaration, but also to translate them into  measures and policies best suited for specific contexts, and Bulgaria has made a serious contribution in this respect.  That is why I view my presence here as a recognition of Bulgaria’s role as a factor of peace and stability in the Balkans,  as a recognition of our concrete policies and actions in compliance with the principles of equal dignity of and respect for  all cultures in the spirit of building bridges among peoples and countries until quite recently divided by conflicts and  confrontations.
9.3 Ladies and gentlemen, Bulgaria is a small country. However, South-East Europe, our homeland, is the cradle of  the European civilization. Three empires have left their mark on the Balkans; down the centuries, mysterious and non- literate ancient Thracians, Hellenes, Romans, Ottoman Turks, Proto-Bulgars and Slavs have created a colourful  amalgamation of ideas, beliefs, languages and cultures. Time has preserved this rich cultural heritage despite the  conflicts of modern times and the borders of nation-States. I can say without hesitation that cultural diversity is an  indelible part of today’s life and political tradition in Bulgaria. Our society is a multicultural one. For centuries we  Bulgarians have lived in towns and villages side by side with Greeks, Turks, Armenians, Jews, Vlachs and Roma, people  of heterogeneous traditions and cultures speaking different languages. Bulgarian people know a lot about respect and  tolerance; they know how to respect others and their diversity. And not only this; we have put in place operating  mechanisms for interaction among these heterogeneous population groups, mechanisms to accommodate their diversity  by means of the free expression of their personal and communal identities.
9.4 Internationally, inspired by the conviction that culture is the vehicle of consent, Bulgaria has initiated and actively  participated in a series of Balkan thematic summits organized with the support of UNESCO and dedicated to issues of  the dialogue of civilizations, the cultural corridors in South-East Europe, cultural diversity as a bridge between the cultural  heritage and the culture of the future, intercultural encounters on marine, river and lake routes in South-East Europe,  management of heritage diversity and its promotion for tourism, music as a metaphor of cultural dialogue, contemporary  art and reconciliation.
9.5 The message by the presidents and heads of State from South-East Europe is of special importance today with  globalization endangering the diversity of languages and cultures, imposing a specific cultural model and endeavouring  to dilute our values and principles by leading us back to ‘thinking inside the box’. Looking back at the long way we have  come from Ohrid to Belgrade, we see that the development of general political, cultural and personal relations greatly  helps to overcome common difficulties and qualitatively new challenges. At the same time, the support rendered us by  our friends from UNESCO, the Council of Europe and the European Commission has provided opportunities for real  achievements in the efforts to further strengthen communication among artists and build a new culture, a culture of  peace, using the benefits of education, media and technology. This year the Cultural Corridors in South-East Europe  Project has entered a new phase. Speaking at the opening of the 9th Regional Summit of Heads of State of South-East  Europe in Belgrade, the Director-General of UNESCO launched a new initiative “Culture: a Bridge to Development”. The  initiative has received strong support from all participating States. Its objective is to unite the creative artistic forces of the  region as distinct drivers of sustainable social and economic development and I am confident that we will join our efforts  to contribute to its successful implementation.
9.6 Ladies and gentlemen, today we witness certain processes in some regions of the world and especially in urban  areas that cause growing concern, in other words, processes of impeded communication and coexistence among  different cultures, peoples and religions. However, it is not cultural differences that are usually at the core of such crises  but rather underestimation or marginalization of minority cultures. These developments, should not, however, be  perceived as a failure of the attempts to build multicultural societies. These phenomena can be attributed to wrong  government and corporate policies, unsolved social problems, bad education as well as mental and spiritual gridlock  degenerating into radical mottos and absurd political projects. Here, I hasten to point out that the world does not need  any new political short-sightedness but a meaningful discussion to focus on achievements and boost economic  development taking advantage of the capacities of creative industries. We should not underestimate culture as a factor of  development and peace and, in my opinion, that is what our session today is really about. We are called upon to respond  to those public groups and political messages that neglect the potential of coexistence of different cultures. Protection of  cultural diversity is a major instrument to help us achieve balance in complicated relations among peoples and cultures.  Because I am confident that when other approaches fail, culture can heal, culture can support public attitudes and  political processes that help overcome wounds of the past.
9.7 Ladies and gentlemen, yes, we are different. Yes, we speak, write, think, sing and create in different languages,  using various colours and techniques. Yes, the world is full of mysteries, of memory’s secret places related to our  forefathers and predecessors. However, in today’s rich palette of cultural differences we should be able to see the most  important thing about them, in other words, that these differences are the most powerful engine of modern humankind, its  spirit, its heart, its driving force. Culture is not an abstract notion or an artefact created by an elitist artist. Culture creates  wealth, culture helps us better understand the people around us and the world as a whole. The process will become  irreversible, should we perceive cultural diversity as a precondition to preserving our identity and our civilization as such.  My actions all along as a leader have always been and will always be based on tolerance, consideration of others and  trust in the power of this approach. This is the only way we could make the world of the future a fairer, more peaceful and  more humane place; but to make this happen, each one of us needs somebody else by their side. This is the only way  for the prophetic words ascribed to Orpheus, a mythical singer, poet and musician, who lived in ancient Bulgarian lands,  to come true: "The world may be conquered with a lyre, not with a sword". Thank you for your kind attention.
10. The President:  Thank you, Your Excellency, President of the Republic of Bulgaria. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Abdou Diouf, Secretary- General of the Organisation internationale de la Francophonie (OIF) was unfortunately not available to join us today but  wanted to deliver a message about OIF’s commitment to cultural diversity. We can now watch and listen to the video  statement of Mr Abdou Diouf.  A video message from Mr Abdou Diouf, Secretary-General of the   Organisation internationale de la Francophonie (OIF), is screened.
11.1. M. Abdou Diouf (Organisation internationale de la francophonie – OIF)    Madame la Directrice générale de l’UNESCO, chers amis. Il y a 10 ans, aujourd’hui même, le 2 novembre 2001,  la Conférence générale de l’UNESCO adoptait à l’unanimité la Déclaration universelle de l’UNESCO sur la diversité  culturelle. Ce geste d’une très grande portée constituait tout à la fois un aboutissement et une étape. Un aboutissement  parce que, dès 1950, à travers l’Accord de Florence pour l’importation d’objets de caractère éducatif, scientifique ou  culturel, on commençait à se préoccuper de la préservation de la diversité culturelle. L’expression n’était pas encore  connue, mais c’est bien de cela qu’il était question. Depuis 1950, à travers des centaines de conférences, de séminaires,  et de rapports, il a été permis de développer une pensée articulée autour de cette notion. L’adoption de la Déclaration  universelle de l’UNESCO sur la diversité culturelle est l’aboutissement d’un long processus de structuration de la pensée  que l’UNESCO a mené au fil des ans. L’adoption de cette Déclaration marque aussi une étape décisive car cet  instrument énonce les principes juridiques sur lesquels l’UNESCO et la communauté internationale ont pu s’appuyer  pour élaborer d’autres textes majeurs comme la Convention pour la sauvegarde du patrimoine immatériel de 2003 ou la  Convention de l’UNESCO sur la protection et la promotion de la diversité des expressions culturelles de 2005. La  Déclaration porte en elle toutes les valeurs humaines associées au concept de diversité culturelle. Elle affirme haut et  fort que les différences, loin de nous séparer, doivent nous unir. Elle nous rappelle qu’il y a différents manières  d’appréhender le monde et surtout que l’une n’est pas supérieure aux autres. Alors que la Déclaration universelle des  droits de l’homme protège les individus et leur permet de s’épanouir dans la société qui les abrite, la Déclaration  universelle de l’UNESCO sur la diversité culturelle s’intéresse à la relation entre les cultures et les peuples. Les deux  concepts sont dans les faits indissociables. La Déclaration nous invite à aller à la découverte de l’autre et à le respecter  pour ce qu’il est. La francophonie a toujours été sensible au dossier de la diversité culturelle et les débats au sein même  de ces instances ont été très fructueux avant d’être portés à l’attention de l’UNESCO. Le soutien au multilinguisme, la  reconnaissance de la notion des langues partenaires, l’appui à l’élaboration de politiques culturelles nationales sont  quelques exemples qui témoignent de l’action de la francophonie.
11.2 Œuvrer à la reconnaissance et au respect de la diversité culturelle, c’est aussi travailler pour la paix, la solidarité  et le développement. Justice, paix, liberté, solidarité, identité, cohésion sociale, dialogue des cultures, égalité des  chances et équité : voilà des valeurs que nous inspire la Déclaration universelle de l’UNESCO sur la diversité culturelle.  Beaucoup reste encore à faire, en particulier pour développer les outils de mise en œuvre de la Déclaration de 2001 et  des conventions qu’elle a inspirée. C’est ce à quoi la francophonie, souvent en collaboration avec l’UNESCO, s’applique.  Chaque année, des cultures disparaissent, des langues cessent d’être parlées, et chaque fois ce sont des trésors,  souvent millénaires, qui sont engloutis à tout jamais dans l’océan de l’oubli. Il est de notre devoir de préserver cette  diversité qui constitue une richesse pour l’humanité, tout aussi vitale et essentielle à son avenir que l’est la biodiversité.  Je vous remercie.
(13.1) Dr Hitti (League of Arab States) (translation from the Arabic):   Excellencies, Madam President of the General Conference, Madam Chair of the Executive Board, Madam Director- General of UNESCO, Excellencies, ladies and gentlemen, I should like, first of all, to convey to you greetings from the  Secretary-General of the League of Arab States, Professor Nabil El-Arabi, who wished to participate in person in this gathering  on the tenth anniversary of the UNESCO Universal Declaration on Cultural Diversity, but who was unfortunately detained by  unforeseen circumstances in Cairo. I should also like to congratulate UNESCO on the accession to it of the State of Palestine;  this accession will strengthen cultural diversity in the Organization and will give forceful expression to the noble objectives of  the Organization, which the State of Palestine endorses, and to its great responsibilities in this field, for Palestine looks forward  to joining the international UNESCO family in the service of its joint objectives relating to the strengthening, support and  dissemination of the objectives of the UNESCO Universal Declaration on Cultural Diversity.
(13.2) Ladies and gentlemen, the question of cultural diversity, together with the need to respect and strengthen it,  constitutes a fundamental challenge at the outset of the third millennium, a challenge at all levels in our global village. I prefer  the expression “the global village” for the warmth that flows from it to the global city, this village that is seeing, on the one hand,  ever more rapid marches in the direction of globalization, which entails assimilation, various forms of assimilation, some of  which are sometimes and in certain cases detrimental to the environmental, social and economic equilibrium. At the same time,  on the other hand, our village is undergoing a process of “awakening of identities” at all levels of identity worldwide. This  awakening, at times, strengthens the fear of the unknown and anxiety about the future; it also tends to promote distinctiveness,  now by stressing the self, now by encouraging or ensuring fragmentation, withdrawal into one’s shell, and tension. I believe  that the UNESCO Universal Declaration on Cultural Diversity contains the basic principles and proposals we need, and most  importantly, a comprehensive vision of how to manage this relationship and ensure the necessary and desired harmony in the  opposition between assimilation and distinctiveness, the opposition between the common and the particular in a world which is  experiencing ever greater problems having a variety of causes which underlie first internal migrations and then external  migrations and the fundamentally interlinked and interlocking transformations and changes, and is also experiencing further  dynamic interactions at all levels.
(13.3) Ladies and gentlemen, identity in today’s world, after having strongly reduced globalization, and some say having  even abrogated the twin factors of time and geographical place, has become a complex sort of concept with numerous levels  which are a source of enrichment for individuals and groups. In this very special identity we find at once the local, the national- federative, and the common-global or the sub-global. Various civilizational and cultural and national spaces, and the Arab  world is both of them and among them, convey a mosaic of diversity in varying degrees and shapes according to this concept,  and meet the challenge of how to preserve the beauty of this mosaic and strengthen this diversity, which can be a source of  wealth if properly managed, but a source of tension if ignored.
(13.4) Ladies and gentlemen, many speak, or rather until recently have spoken of the clash of civilizations as a pessimistic  historical inevitability, and others have spoken of the end of history. We have seen the end of history as an optimistic  inevitability and as the victory of a civilizational space or the superiority of that space over the other. But developments have  demonstrated the failure of such theories have failed. Civilizations and identities do not struggle against one another in and of  themselves. Rather, it is people that either struggle against each other or cooperate with each other in their own names. But, it
355  should be recalled and stressed that fanaticism and closed-mindedness are always rooted in ignorance and ignorance of the  Other, that the origin of estrangement is being cut off from the Other, and that ignorance usually pushes people towards a  terrible trilogy, the triology of generalizations, hasty conclusions, and facile projections of one’s view of the Other, which leads  or paves the way to what some call the clash of ignorances or the clash of fears, or let me say the ”clash of phobias”. In this  way, some of the problems of economic marginalization and social banishment, which may take an identity-based form in  certain cases, become a conflictual inevitability. This logic produces every possible negative phenomenon of specificities  within a societal and historic framework, endowing them with an absolutely frozen and inevitable ”culturalist” nature. We find  ourselves today, ladies and gentlemen, faced with only two, not three, choices: either we build walls and we widen the gap  between us and the Other by ignoring them or fearing them or spreading fear about them, whoever they may be, or we build  bridges, bridges of communication and dialogue in order to become acquainted with the Other, to get to know them, to stress  that the difference does not automatically mean conflict, and that being distinct from the Other does not mean the absence of  what is common to us; nor does it mean moral or civilizational superiority over that Other.
(13.5) Ladies and gentlemen, dialogue with the Other is not aimed at remaking the Other in our own image or at completely  refashioning them, stripping them of their characteristics and specificities. Rather, it is basically aimed at changing the way in  which that Other sees us, and at the same time, at changing the way in which we view the Other for the sake of this joint work,  and in order to stress what is common in our diversity. UNESCO is today facing three challenges in this field ‒ and UNESCO  has many challenges ‒ in the field of education, information and culture. How should we contribute to pre-university education  regarding the definition and strengthening of what is common to all humanity, regarding getting acquainted with the Other, and  respect for diversity and differences? Human beings are the enemy of what they do not know. Here we see the importance of  the role of the educational programmes and curricula in particular, and what UNESCO can provide, together with all of us. But  what is really needed is for us to decide, rather than UNESCO, and to provide support within the framework of a clear vision  for meeting this challenge. Strengthening scientific exchanges and joint programmes and establishing centres of excellence at  various levels, this all helps in a fundamental manner in this field. And in information and communication, what is needed from  us all is to contribute by means of various mechanisms, programmes and formulas to the training and empowerment of  journalists to enable them to handle the tremendous flow of information, with media materials, in order to develop expertise in  critical analytical media communication. With respect to culture, allow me to speak frankly: we need to engage in dialogue on  people’s everyday experience rather than at the theoretical level. We need to democratize dialogue so that it does not remain  an occasional, closed action in élite clubs of thinkers, intellectuals and officials. We need to reach out to the Other. We need to  actively involve representatives of the living sectors and NGOs in the building of a common experience and in familiarizing  themselves with the real problems.
(13.6) In conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, the Arab world, which is today undergoing a raft of fundamental transformations  and challenges, looks forward to participating actively, through UNESCO, in strengthening the principles and objectives of this  declaration by means of creative dialogue and constructive interaction in all fields in order to support the march of human  development. Culture is a bearer and fundamental part of the human development process in order to usher in peace, justice  and prosperity to our global village. Thank you.
14. The President:   Thank you very much, Your Excellency, for your address. Ladies and gentlemen, let me now introduce our next  speaker, His Excellency Mr Henri Lopes, Ambassador of the Republic of Congo to France. Mr Lopes is more than a very  good friend of UNESCO, as he served the Organization for many years. Monsieur Henri Lopes was the Secretary  General of the World Conference on Cultural Policies (MONDIACULT held in Mexico in 1982 which was a landmark  conference in the recognition of the role of culture in development. A senior official at UNESCO from 1981 to 1998, he  served as Deputy Director-General for Culture, then Deputy Director-General of the Priority Africa Programme. Co-author  of Learning to Be (UNESCO/Fayard), he has published seven novels and an essay. In 1993 he received the Grand Prix  de la Francophonie of the French Academy for all his work and is currently Ambassador of the Republic of Congo to  France. Your Excellency, welcome home. You have the floor, Sir.
15.1. M. Lopes (Congo)   Je vous remercie, Madame la Présidente de la Conférence générale. Votre Excellence Monsieur le Président de  la République d’Indonésie, Votre Excellence Monsieur le Président de la République de Bulgarie, Madame la Présidente  de la Conférence générale, Madame la Présidente du Conseil exécutif, Madame la Directrice générale, Mesdames et  Messieurs les Ministres et chefs de délégation, Mesdames et Messieurs les délégués, chers amis, il y a 45 ans, dans  cette salle prestigieuse – à moins que ce ne soit, le temps m’a manqué pour le vérifier, dans celle du Conseil exécutif,  voire de la Commission 4, qui à l’époque s’occupait des problèmes culturels — un homme prend la parole. Au début, sa  voix peine à s'élever au-dessus du brouhaha qui suit l'intervention de l’orateur précédent, puis peu à peu, l'attention des  auditeurs se fait plus grande, le silence est total. La barbiche tremblotante, l'homme est vêtu d'une djellaba et coiffé d'un  bonnet façon tarbouche. C'est Amadou Hampaté Bâ, le sage de Bandiagara. Dans son intervention, une formule fait  mouche : « En Afrique, chaque fois qu'un vieillard meurt, c'est une bibliothèque qui brûle ».
15.2 À l'époque, c'est par la presse que m'est parvenue, dans mon petit Congo, cette formule percutante, qui allait  faire florès, avant d'être gravée dans l'airain. J'étais jeune et je m'apprêtais à venir participer à la Conférence générale  de l'UNESCO. L’Organisation venait de célébrer l’adhésion de son 120e membres – aujourd’hui ils sont 195, c’est dire  qu’elle a gagné en universalité et en diversité. Depuis, le temps a passé. Immodeste, il m'arrive de penser que je suis  d'une certaine manière un de ces porteurs d'archives auxquels faisait allusion Amadou Hampaté Bâ. Ce qui est sûr, c'est  que les lueurs de l'incendie qui me consumera rougeoient de plus en plus fortement à l'horizon. Et je pense à Amadou  Hampaté Bâ et à ces vieillards devenus archives vivantes. Érudit, sage, sans doute un saint homme, Amadou Hampaté  Bâ était l'exemple vivant de l'enracinement dans des valeurs traditionnelles séculaires héritées de son Mali natal, mais il  était aussi le prototype de la multi-appartenance, de l'ouverture d'esprit, de la curiosité et de la tolérance. Né dans  l'animisme, il était de religion musulmane et épousa une Européenne de culture chrétienne. Chaque nouvel acquis, qu'il  fût d'ordre religieux ou philosophique, n'était pas pour lui prétexte à se délester de son héritage originel, mais constituait  une greffe qui enrichissait le tronc fondamental. Amadou Hampaté Bâ a célébré et pratiqué le mariage des cultures.
15.3 Le texte d'Amadou Hampaté Bâ ne parle pas de diversité culturelle. Pourtant c'est de ce dont il s'agit avant la  lettre. Son adresse à la communauté internationale est en réalité plus qu'un appel au secours. C'est la proposition d'une  nouvelle vision de la recherche historique. Car, souvenons-nous, jusque dans les années 1960, les historiens  n'accordaient crédit qu'à deux sources d'information : les documents écrits et les documents archéologiques, oubliant  peut-être que les grands livres du judaïsme, du christianisme et de l'islam avaient été à l'origine des transcriptions de  témoignages oraux. Les aèdes de la Grèce antique chez qui Homère puisa l'inspiration de l'Iliade et de l'Odyssée  n’étaient-ils pas les ancêtres des griots africains ? La Chanson de Roland n'est-elle pas la transcription des récits du  passé que trouvères et troubadours chantaient dans les cours royales et seigneuriales ? À l'époque, la déclaration  d'Amadou Hampaté Bâ trouva un écho dans la communauté internationale et convainquit l'UNESCO de se lancer dans  un de ses projets les plus prestigieux : l'Histoire générale de l'Afrique. Un ouvrage de valeur scientifique qui a servi  d'appui et de référence pour l'établissement des programmes scolaires et des manuels d'histoire dans notre continent.
15.4 Cet ouvrage est une des pièces fondamentales qui a permis de modifier le regard du monde sur les civilisations  africaines et a changé la perception que les Africains avaient d'eux-mêmes. Car, ne l'oublions pas, la traite négrière, tout  comme la colonisation, reposent sur des postulats désobligeants pour l'Afrique et ses habitants. Un continent porteur de  monstres, peuplé d'hommes et de femmes sauvages, sans histoire ni civilisation. Nous avons vécu dans notre chair,  pendant des siècles, les conséquences de ces préjugés. Dans nos luttes de libération et en faveur de notre rédemption,  dans notre grand projet de renaissance, nous avons invoqué les valeurs qui se trouvent maintenant contenues dans la  Déclaration sur la diversité culturelle. Ce rappel n'a pas pour objet de régler des comptes ou d’ouvrir des procès hors de  saison. Aujourd'hui que nous avons recouvré notre place au sein de la communauté internationale, nous portons un  regard serein sur la manière dont l'Europe a pris contact avec l'Afrique. Nous sommes d'autant moins vindicatifs que nos  sociétés, comme toutes les sociétés de l'histoire humaine, ont engendré à côté de nos héros, à côté des figures  exemplaires et de nos sages, des tyrans, des bourreaux et des tortionnaires. Parvenus au pouvoir, des individus issus  de sociétés hier asservies et exploitées sont devenus les tyrans de certains groupes appartenant à leurs propres nations.  Que ce soit dans sa définition de la culture ou dans le recensement des valeurs sacrées et des droits culturels des  individus, des sociétés, des communautés et des minorités, il n’y a à mon sens rien à ajouter à la Déclaration sur la  diversité culturelle. Cette proclamation, et les engagements qu'elle induit, amèneront certainement à faire évoluer la  sensibilité humaine. Des vexations, des blessures, des dénis des droits de la personne que nous ne percevons pas  aujourd'hui paraîtront évidents aux générations futures.
15.5 La Déclaration sur la diversité culturelle est la clé de voûte de cette imposante et complexe architecture que  constituent toutes les valeurs dont se réclament les projets et actions de l’UNESCO. Pour l'heure donc, plutôt que de  répéter ce qui a déjà été exprimé, et bien exprimé, je voudrais me contenter d'une remarque qui est implicite dans le  texte de la Déclaration, mais mérite à mon gré d'être explicitée et soulignée. J’ai personnellement apprécié la métaphore  de Mme la Présidente de la Conférence générale qui a comparé la culture à un fleuve. La culture est l’assise de tout  projet humain et non le dernier maillon d'un chaînon. La culture n'est pas non plus un luxe dont on n’aurait le droit de  goûter les fruits qu'une fois résolus les autres problèmes de la société. La culture n'est pas un épiphénomène de la vie.  La culture est le point de départ, la culture est le fondement de la paix ; la culture est le fondement d'une meilleure  appréciation réciproque des individus, des groupes sociaux, des communautés et des nations ; la culture est le  fondement de la tolérance. La culture est le fondement de la loi, de la justice et du respect mutuel ; la culture est le  fondement de la vie politique, dans son projet comme dans son exercice. La culture est la base de notre attitude vis-à-vis  de notre environnement, la base d'une organisation économique, saine, équilibrée et juste. La mondialisation devrait  avoir pour règle d’or les principes de la Déclaration sur la diversité culturelle.
15.6 Or, combien d'hommes politiques, combien d'entrepreneurs, combien de syndicalistes, combien de dirigeants  d'association ont le courage de mettre cette évidence en tête de leurs déclarations, de leurs programmes, de leurs  actions ? Quiconque ose le mentionner est accueilli par un sourire de pitié et un haussement d'épaules. J’ai écrit mon  texte avant d’avoir entendu l’intervention de M. le Président de la République d’Indonésie qui, elle, est au contraire  l’illustration de ce que je souhaite.
15.7 Comment donc transformer notre humanité, si bien représentée dans cette enceinte, non plus en délégations  cloisonnées et soucieuses de défendre leurs intérêts propres, mais en partenaires disposés à dialoguer entre eux et à se  transformer ? Car tout dialogue, toute négociation suppose non seulement la volonté de convaincre et de faire bouger  l’autre pour le rapprocher de moi, mais aussi la capacité de bouger moi-même et de faire un, plusieurs pas, vers l'autre.  En d'autres termes, l'un des plus grands défis qui se pose maintenant à l'UNESCO, et plus encore à la communauté  internationale, n'est pas d'amender le texte, mais de traduire les principes de la Déclaration sur la diversité culturelle en  méthodes, en projets, en actes concrets. Comment rendre visible, tangible et sensible ce qui, bien que d'une efficacité  indéniable, demeure encore du domaine de l'impalpable ? Et quand cela sera, il s'agira de se doter des moyens de notre  action. Ne nous le cachons pas, il s'agit bien de déplacer les montagnes. Car comment obtenir que les sommes  colossales consacrées à financer les instruments de destruction et les guerres, ou mobilisées pour la publicité et des  loisirs frivoles, pour les jeux du cirque et les dieux du stade, comment faire pour que ces sommes puissent être  réorientées, sinon dans leur totalité, du moins dans une proportion significative, vers ce que nous nous accordons tous à  considérer comme la source du développement harmonieux et humain de notre planète ?
15.8 La tâche est titanesque, peut-être surhumaine. Ma grand-mère, qui ne savait ni lire ni écrire était polyglotte.  Quand nous parlions dans sa langue – ma langue –, l'étudiant que j'étais se sentait emprunté ; elle devenait Socrate et  moi l'analphabète. La culture de ma grand-mère puisait sa source dans l’oralité. Moi, c’est par la lecture que j'ai pris  conscience de mes multiples appartenances : mon identité originelle, mon identité internationale, mon identité  personnelle. Mon travail culturel a consisté à assumer et à approfondir ce trésor. Ma personnalité s'est modelée, s'est  affinée, en lisant Platon, Montaigne et Shakespeare, en écoutant Mozart et Beethoven, en restant des heures devant La  Joconde ou Guernica, autant que devant les masques batékés ou des sculptures dogons. Les créateurs de ces œuvres
357  ne me connaissaient pas et pourtant j'avais l'impression qu'ils les avaient produites pour moi : pour me dessiller les yeux,  pour soigner mon âme, pour me sculpter, pour me rendre polyglotte. Pour ne plus me sentir perdu à l'étranger, pour me  reconnaître dans l'étranger qui frappe à ma porte et demande à prendre ma fille en mariage.
15.9 Aujourd'hui, je crains que mes petits-enfants ne tournent le dos à la lecture. Ils sont séduits par l’électronique,  sont sous l’emprise de la communication, du monde de l’immédiat et sont démunis de la connaissance qui donne le  sentiment de l’histoire, de l’altérité, de l’humanisme, de la profondeur de la culture telle que nous la connaissions. Que  faire ? Que pouvons-nous faire ? Que peut faire l’UNESCO ? Non pour nous opposer au tsunami culturel qui porte en lui  les nouvelles technologies de la communication, mais, pour utiliser cette nouvelle donne afin d’ensemencer et de  féconder notre rêve commun. L’individu isolé n’apportera pas de réponse. L’UNESCO, en revanche, dans sa diversité, le  peut. Et l’UNESCO, c’est plus que le Secrétariat de l’UNESCO, c’est vous tous, Mesdames et Messieurs.
15.20. Je veux dire par là que, comme le dit la fable de La Fontaine, un trésor est caché dans la Déclaration universelle  sur la diversité culturelle. Il s'agit de ne pas laisser cette matière en friche mais de la labourer, de la cultiver, de  l’ensemencer. Car un texte normatif constitue un cadre ; il n’est pas un acte. Les plus belles déclarations, les  conventions les plus complètes, les lois les plus justes, représentent davantage les vœux de leurs auteurs que la réalité.  Or, c'est la réalité qu'il s'agit d'amender et de transformer. Pardonnez mon impertinence.
16. The President:   Thank you very much indeed, Your Excellency Monsieur Henri Lopes. It has been a great honour and privilege  to listen to you. Ladies and gentlemen, let me now introduce our final speaker, His Excellency Mr Miguel Angel Estrella,  Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary, Permanent Delegate of Argentina to UNESCO. Miguel Angel Estrella,  one of Argentina’s most prestigious classical pianists, has led a lifelong campaign for the popularization of music among  the poorest groups in society. Miguel Angel Estrella was designated UNESCO Goodwill Ambassador in 1989. He is the  founder of Musique Espérance, a foundation that aims at improving access to music for all people, defending human  dignity and inspiring communities. The Orchestra for Peace, composed of young Arab and Israeli musicians, was created  by Mr Estrella and has given concerts in France and Luxembourg to promote UNESCO’s ideals and objectives. In 2000  Miguel Angel Estrella received the Nansen Prize, the United Nations Prize for the Three Americas. It is an honour to  have you here, Your Excellency, and you have the floor.
(17.1) Mr Estrella (Argentina) (translation from the Spanish):   Thank you. As you already know, I am not a man of protocol, I am a pianist, and I am delighted to be here with you  to share this memorable occasion dedicated to cultural diversity. In addition to everything that you have said, Mr Henri Lopes,  about culture, for me, it is the most intimate part of human beings. We can bring this intimacy to fruition - as long as we  recognize the very best it has to offer. The women and men who have spoken this morning have expressed the very best of  that which emanates from the soul, but God knows how difficult it is to make this happen. That is to say, everyone has the right  to his or her identity, everyone has the right to education and everyone has the right to work. Sometimes, the more privileged  of us in society do not realize the humiliation that comes with being out of work. You Eleonora, and you too Irina, spoke a short  while ago of culture and development, but for whom? Well I say for everybody. And this is the difficult thing. I began at a young  age, as an adolescent, helping the poor of Argentina, and later of Paraguay and of Bolivia, and it was extremely difficult for me  because I would say to them: “You must organize yourselves into cooperatives and not allow yourselves to be duped by those  who are making money from your work”. A great political leader in Argentina once said to me, “With so much fire you will not  achieve anything; you must get down off your high horse and talk to the farmers and the indigenous people at their level. That  is how you will mobilize them”.
(17.2) I believe this was great advice that I received when I was young, and what I am about to tell you now is related to  what Eleonora, Irina and the President of Indonesia have spoken about. I am very fond of the expression “neuvo nosotros”, a  “new we” that we must go out and search for. I went looking for this “new we” in the indigenous populations of Latin America. I  learned a great deal with these populations. One day, Jorge Semprún, a great writer and thinker, said to me, “Write something  for me on Latin America for the 500th Anniversary Celebrations”, and I wrote “The voice of the voiceless” (La voz de los sin  voz). I divided the whole of Latin America and the Caribbean – not by political borders, but by cultural ones – into everything  that unites the Latin American peoples. The programme was selected, and when I began representing my country in this  Organization that I cherish so dearly, I presented “The voice of the voiceless” to UNESCO. That was at the beginning of 2004.  I presented it as a Southern Common Market (MERCOSUR) cultural programme. In other words, it started as something very  small and went on to cover the whole of Latin America, well, South America, a cultural region, for example, something which  originates in the South, in Chile, in Argentina, spreads to Bolivia, Peru, Columbia, Ecuador and reaches right up to Venezuela,  as I said, it is the same culture. So, I arranged to travel with a few experts and listen to the indigenous people, and talk, and  make music, and dance and savour the rituals that they have for every occasion, because the indigenous populations have  wisdom that has been passed down from generation to generation for thousands of years. They will say, for example, “No, we  cannot sing you this song about flowers now - we have to wait until the spring”. There are rituals from a very intimate culture  that are linked to the earth, to the respect and gratitude for this earth, the provider of our food.
(17.3) UNESCO adopted the programme immediately in 2004 and all the ambassadors from South America met and we  set off. For each culture we selected the best undiscovered talent from a world that is so rich in culture but so poor materially.  These are South America’s poor, South America’s voiceless. The former Director-General of UNESCO travelled to Argentina  to present it internationally and 150 of South America’s newly discovered artists performed at Argentina’s most sophisticated  theatre, Teatro Colón in Buenos Aires, our “Teatro alla Scala” – and the very select public was enchanted by what they saw on  the stage. All the wisdom with which Uruguayan or Argentinian payadores (gaucho minstrels) conveyed the sensuality of  Paraguayan dances, Venezuelan songs, Brazilian dances. I remember that when the event concluded, all 150 artists paraded  out of the theatre through the public, and the public followed them out into a square outside the theatre, and started dancing  and singing together with these entirely unknown, undiscovered musicians. We put on another 18 performances, selecting and  giving a voice to talented emerging musicians and dancers, not only from indigenous communities but also from other, more  modern, popular cultures - the tango, for example, which emerged at the end of the nineteenth century.
(17.4) The Afro-descendant community was also included in the programme, because Africans that had arrived in South  America, all across Latin America in fact, had arrived as slaves and had taken part in the struggle for independence two  centuries ago, to become free in Latin America. We discovered amazing things: in Bolivia, for example, I met an Afro- descendant community that talked and dressed like the indigenous Aymara or Quechua people, but their music, their dance  and their rituals all stemmed back to their original African roots, and they wanted to preserve this age-old memory that unites  them with this identity, with this part of their identity, their race. Well, I cannot tell you what happened in those eight days with  so many people who had never travelled, who had never seen a plane close up. Encounters like these are amazing, because  everyone gets along, and everyone wants to know how to make a guitar play in a particular way, or what to do with a particular  wind instrument, or how to do a particular dance step. In other words, people are living together, embracing their pluralism, as  my mother, who was a rural teacher, used to say. Right, I do not wish to tire you any further. I am delighted to be participating,
359  and very honoured. I have learned a great deal from all of you and we must continue to construct this cultural diversity in order  to remain united. I tell you this through experience, I am not a child and I am aware that it is not easy to agree on projects with  great social ambition and such fundamental matters as peace. Here, in this very room, only two days ago, we witnessed an  incident that I consider to be historical. We have lost some things, which I hope will not be definitive, because as Irina said  earlier today, “at UNESCO we must all, all, all work together for a better world”. Thank you.
18. The President:   Thank you very much, Ambassador Estrella. We have indeed had a remarkable session here this morning. The  esteemed and honourable guests have taken us through a remarkable journey, a profound and revealing dialogue  indicating that in just ten years the UNESCO Universal Declaration on Cultural Diversity has had a significant impact on  the global discourse on the role of culture in promoting peace, fostering sustainable development and attaining various  developmental objectives, and certainly cultural diversity continues to shape cultural policies around the world. In the  face of unrelenting globalization, this Declaration has indeed elevated us to a new level of relevance and significance. It  has the potential to promote dialogue and mutual understanding between different peoples and cultures that are coming  into contact with increasing frequency and intensity. We all thank you. You are truly the most eloquent ambassadors of  cultural diversity and of our common heritage. Ladies and gentlemen, our guests will now leave us and we will continue  with the examination and adoption of the draft resolution contained in document 36 C/51. I would like to thank Your  Excellencies once again for the remarkable morning meeting that we have all had the pleasure of attending.   The meeting is suspended briefly while the Director-General and her guests withdraw from Room I.
19. The President:  Distinguished delegates, ladies and gentlemen, before we turn to the consideration of the resolution contained in  document 36 C/51 Add. & Corr., I would like to acknowledge the presence of the former Ambassador of the Russian  Federation and one of the authors of the UNESCO Universal Declaration on Cultural Diversity. Mr Sidorov was the  Minister of Culture of the Russian Federation. He is a writer, a member of the Russian Union of Writers, and was  Ambassador of the Russian Federation to UNESCO in the year 2000. Mr Sidorov, we would request you to take the floor  and make some brief comments. You have the floor, Sir.
(20.1) Mr Sidorov (Russian Federation) (translation from the Russian):   Madam President, Excellencies, colleagues, of course this is a wonderful celebration, but at the same time there are  a great many problems which we must not forget even on a day like this. I am delighted that the Declaration exists and that  UNESCO is precisely the Organization where we should talk about the cultural problems that are of concern to the whole  multilingual, diverse world.
(20.2) It seems to me that not many academics, sociologists, culture experts and historians are in any doubt that culture is  undergoing a serious crisis, connected with the shifting paradigms of global social development. Now everybody knows that  globalization requires unification, but for culture, unification is fraught with frequent perils or, at the least, a sharp fall in the  levels of mass-media output, with standardization and simplification of meaning. These processes are typical of Russia, of  other countries and of Europe. In Europe they are particularly obvious because what existed before was a centuries-old  dynamic, rich, flourishing culture with roots in the Ancient Greek and Judeo-Christian traditions. Russia, of course with various  Eastern elements, belongs to this branch of mankind’s intellectual and spiritual development.
(20.3) Schlesinger’s widely-known dichotomy between culture and civilization no longer works and is a purely historical  legacy. Civilization has been absorbing culture for a long time now, along with individuals who convey the cultural and national  codes handed down from generation to generation. Is it not clear that economic pragmatism, and the ousting of the  humanitarian basis from the life of society, have become everyday practice and policy? This is not to mention armed conflict,  terrorism, religious intolerance and the increase in criminality. Great danger, too, stems from the speculative, commercial  adaptation of culture for the masses at large with the help of the new information technologies.
(20.4) Fighting against this process is as mindless as it was to follow the Luddites in the fight against the nineteenth- century modernization of industry. As world practice shows, cultural policy can seek only to optimize and mitigate the possible  negative effects that bring with them standardization, the destruction of heritage, the lessening influence of the classics in  society’s artistic life, the threat to innovative processes with a long-term perspective, and so on.
(20.5) The postmodern era in human society has engendered an unprecedented attack on visual culture, which occupies  an ever-growing place and is replacing traditional institutions. Culture, though, is not a sports competition. It is not the abolition  but the complex coexistence of layers, the modernization of traditions: I repeat, it is above all the modernization of traditions.
(20.6) At UNESCO, we like to talk about how to eradicate poverty and illiteracy with help from new information technologies,  but in reality only slightly more than 10% of the total world population has access to the Internet, and of the illiterate population  the proportion is even lower. Almost every sixth person today cannot read or write. So, cinema did not replace the theatre  despite the predictions about the dire fate of the theatre in the era of film. Television has not replaced the cinema. Marshall  McLuhan’s “global village”, which has been mentioned here, is the same myth as the myth of the worldwide communist  brotherhood. I remember that great representative of postmodern culture, Umberto Eco, with whom I discussed the matter  recently, saying, quite rightly, that “there is no point at all in replacing the old with the new. This is a general law. We have both,  thank God ... There is no need for opposition between visual and virtual communication, they must both be perfected”.
(20.7) So multiculturalism itself is in no way guilty as an idea, but it is not experienced in the right way. What is important  here is not the idea itself, but rather the application of the idea in a given society. Therefore, the irreplaceable nature of the  word, the letter (literally according to the Gospel according to John) is a powerful argument against a visual culture which aims  for global primacy. Today society and its individual citizen members are often in thrall to technology and the global market,  with culture having no impact. Both the market and technology are starting to operate only in their own interests, and not in the  interests of humanity. This, too, must be very clearly acknowledged. There are examples of it everywhere – in Asia, Europe,  Africa and the United States.
(20.8) The absence of distinctiveness is another problem (and I am now reaching my conclusion); the absence of  distinctive strategic stimuli and criteria distorts the correct assessment of the culture of past heritage. People today have been  herded into a global technological ghetto where culture, in the best of cases, is a museum of gifts from the past which barely  stimulates development or modernity. This kind of process, though, cannot continue indefinitely. Our souls will cry freedom in  the most unexpected places and ways, protesting, forging a new underground reality, preparing a cultural explosion of  unprecedented force, joining people in some sort of new humanitarian unity.
(20.9) I fear, unfortunately, that through war and human disasters, we must first pursue the national stage of cultural  reawakening in postmodern conditions to its end. However, without safeguarding and upholding the identity of remote cultural
361  and civilizational systems that is impossible, as impossible as original cultural diversity. After all, the purpose of cultural  diversity is unity, humanity’s unity at the highest level. Thank you. I wish you all well, and wish you all happiness.
21. The President:  Thank you very much, Mr Sidorov. Distinguished delegates, let us now proceed with our business. Allow me to  remind you that voting for elections to the Executive Board is taking place in Room X until 1 p.m.  Draft resolution contained in document 36 C/51 Add. and Corr.  Projet de résolution figurant dans le document 36 C/51 Add. et Corr.  Proyecto de resolución contenido en el documento 36 C/51 Add. y Corr.  Проект резолюции, содержащейся в документе 36 C/51 Add. и Corr.    مامة وتصويا ٥١م/٣٦مشروع القرار الوارد في الوثاقة  第 36 C/51 Add. & Corr.号文件所载决议草案
22. The President:   We will now turn to the consideration of the resolution contained in document 36 C/51 Add. & Corr. As you know,  this resolution replaces the one contained in paragraph 8 of document 36 C/51. May I request that the Secretary to the  General Conference read out the amendments that have been proposed?
23.1 The Secretary:   Thank you, Madam President. Yes, in addition to the modified text that was circulated as a new consensus text  under reference 36 C/51 Add. & Corr., dated 1 November, which has been distributed, we have received amendments  from France and Denmark supported by Belgium, Croatia, Finland, Grenada, Italy, Malta and Saint Lucia; they are minor  amendments, which I shall read out slowly so that you can note them.
23.2 First of all, in the fourth preambular paragraph beginning “Reaffirming UNESCO’s global commitment”, add two  words before ”cultural diversity” and the two words are “human rights”; followed, of course, by a comma. The second  amendment, in the second operative paragraph beginning “Invites the Director-General”, subparagraph (a), we have a  deletion after the words “normative level”. Delete: “through the standard-setting tools relating to culture and cultural  diversity.” Thank you, Madam President.
24. The President:   Thank you very much, Mr Secretary. Distinguished delegates, I now present to you for adoption the draft  resolution contained in document 36 C/51 Add. & Corr. as verbally amended. I see no objections and no amendments  being proposed. It is so decided. Thank you. I would like to thank you all for a very interesting and enriching meeting  here this morning and for the adoption of the draft resolution marking the tenth anniversary of the UNESCO Universal  Declaration on Cultural Diversity.  Announcements  Annonces  Anuncios  Сообщения   إعالنات 通知
25. The President:   As you know, distinguished delegates, the vote for the election of the Members of the Executive Board has  taken place this morning and will be finishing in about 15 minutes; the ballots should be cast by 1 p.m. The plenary  meeting will be called for this afternoon as soon as the vote counting is done in order to inform the General Conference  of the results of the vote. Please be attentive to the screens and the loudspeakers; the time of the plenary will be widely  announced. Mr Secretary, you have an announcement to make.
26. Le Secrétaire :   Merci Madame la Présidente. Dans le prolongement de la séance plénière spéciale de ce matin, vous aurez le  plaisir ce soir, à 20 h 30, dans cette même Salle I, d’assister à un spectacle organisé, comme cette séance qui s’achève,  dans le cadre de la commémoration du 10e anniversaire de la Déclaration universelle de l’UNESCO sur la diversité  culturelle. Mis sur pied en partenariat avec la Fondation culture et diversité de l’Ambassadeur de bonne volonté Marc  Ladreit de Lacharrière, le programme de ce spectacle prévoit une quinzaine de prestations artistiques diverses, issues  de toutes les régions du monde. Toutes les délégations y sont bien entendu cordialement invitées. Je vous remercie.
27. The President:   Thank you very much, and with that I would like to announce that the meeting is adjourned. Thank you very  much and enjoy your lunch.  The meeting rose at 12.45 p.m.  La séance est levée à 12 h 45   Se levanta la sesión a las 12.45  Заседание закрывается в 12.45  الظهربعد  ١٢,٤٥رفعت اسلسة يف الساعة    会议于 12 时 45 分结束