364  Report of the General Committee  Rapport du Bureau de la Conférence   Informe de la Mesa de la Conferencia  Доклад Президиума     تقرير مكتب المؤتمر العام 总务委员会的报告
1. The President:   Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. I declare open the fourteenth plenary meeting. I am afraid my voice has  still not recovered, but I hope it will have by the end of next week. Meanwhile, I am honoured to announce that a very  good friend and Vice-President will chair this crucial meeting. I am very happy to give the floor to Her Excellency Ms  Lorena Sol de Pool, Ambassador and Permanent Delegate of El Salvador to UNESCO.  Ms Sol de Pool (El Salvador) takes the Chair.
2.1 The President:   Thank you, Madam President. Your Excellencies, ladies and gentlemen, I am indeed honoured to preside over  this special meeting, at which we will announce the results of the Executive Board elections. Before we do that, I would  like to inform you that the General Committee held its third meeting yesterday. The Committee heard progress reports on  the work of the commissions and committees, and I am pleased to inform you that their work is fully on schedule. The  Committee also discussed the inclusion of two new items in the agenda of the General Conference, under the provisions  of Article 15 of the Rules of Procedure. The first item is entitled “Request for authorization to be provided to the UNESCO  Executive Board, at its 189th session (Spring 2012), for approval of the proposed South Asian Centre for Teacher  Development as a category 2 centre under the auspices of UNESCO, to be set up in Sri Lanka”.
2.2 The second item is entitled “Revision of the 1981 Regional Convention on the Recognition of Studies,  Certificates, Diplomas, Degrees and other Academic Qualifications in Higher Education in the African States”. Although  some members sought clarification regarding the urgent character of these items, there was strong consensus in the  Committee that both items should be included in the agenda of this session, respectively becoming agenda items 5.30  and 5.31, and placed on the agenda of the Education Commission. May I take it that the Conference agrees to add these  two items to the agenda of the session? I see no objections, it is so decided.
2.3 Finally, let me also inform you that after hearing a report by the Chairperson of the Legal Committee on item 7.1  relating to the accession of Palestine to UNESCO conventions in the field of culture – the Committee agreed that this  item had been superseded by the resolution which the General Conference adopted on Monday regarding the request  for the admission of Palestine to UNESCO. The Committee therefore agreed that it was unnecessary for the Legal  Committee to consider this item.  Election of Members of the Executive Board  Élection des membres du Conseil exécutif  Elección de miembros del Consejo Ejecutivo  Выборы членов Исполнительного совета   انتخاب أعضاء في المجلس التنفيذي 选举执行局委员
3.1 The President:   And now ladies and gentlemen, we have thus come to the highlight of today’s meeting. As you all know, the  election of Members of the Executive Board took place this morning from 10 a.m. to 1 p.m. in Room X under my  supervision.
3.2 We will now proceed to communicate the results of the Executive Board elections. I invite His Excellency  Mr David Hamadziripi, Chairperson of the Nominations Committee, to present the results of today’s ballot. We shall  announce the results by electoral group, beginning with Group I. Your Excellency, you have the floor.
4.1 Mr Hamadziripi (Zimbabwe) (Chairperson of the Nominations Committee):    Ladies and gentlemen, dear colleagues, Madam President of the General Conference, Director-General, I would  first of all like to thank you for entrusting me with the task of reporting to the plenary of the General Conference the  detailed results of the election of Members of the Executive Board. The elections took place today in conformity with the  Rules of Procedure of the General Conference and with a considerable turn-out. Before I read out these results by  electoral group, I would like to express my appreciation to the Vice-President of the General Conference, Her Excellency  Ms Lorena Sol de Pool, Ambassador of El Salvador, who supervised these elections and who happens to be chairing our  session this afternoon. I would also like to express my appreciation to the six tellers: Ms Teresa Salado from Portugal, Mr  Eldar Bayramov from Azerbaijan, Ms Gloria Henríquez from Nicaragua, Mr Ali Hajilari from the Islamic Republic of Iran,  Mr Ronald Kaulule from Zambia and Ms Cheryl Ghostine from Lebanon for the time and effort they devoted to the  electoral process. Furthermore, I would like to take this opportunity to express my gratitude to the members of the  Secretariat for their support and their professional conduct during the vote-counting process. Among others, I would like  to thank the Secretariat of the Nominations Committee, Ms Patricia Denoyelle, Ms Rosanna Karam, Ms Marimar Marcos,  Ms Shamila Nair-Bedouelle, Mr Michee Detinho, Mr Ieng Srong, the Secretary of the Committee and Mr Jean-Christophe
365  Badaroux-Mendieta, the Legal Councillor. Ladies and gentlemen, I shall now read out, by electoral group, the detailed  results of today’s ballot in the election of Members of the Executive Board.
4.2 The number of Members entitled to vote at the present session was186. Absent: 5; Abstentions: 0. Total of  invalid ballot papers: 25. Group I, in which there are six seats to be filled; invalid ballot papers: 0. Names of the Member  States candidates and number of votes secured by each of them in descending order of the number of votes: Austria:
170; France: 167; Spain: 165; Italy: 159; United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland: 155; United States of  America: 149. Thank you, Madam President.
5. The President:   Thank you very much, Mr Chairperson. I therefore declare the following six Member States elected Members of  the Executive Board: Austria, France, Italy, Spain, United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland and United  States of America. We shall now turn to Group II. Please, Mr Hamadziripi. You have the floor, Excellency.
6. Mr Hamadziripi (Zimbabwe) (Chairperson of the Nominations Committee):   Group II, in which there are four seats to be filled; invalid ballot papers: 4. Names of the Member States  candidates and number of votes secured by each of them in descending order of the number of votes: Russian  Federation: 162; Czech Republic: 153; Montenegro: 150; the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia: 142. Thank you.
7. The President:   Thank you, Mr Chairperson. I therefore declare the following four Member States elected Members of the  Executive Board: Czech Republic, Montenegro, Russian Federation and the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia.  We shall now turn to Group III. Mr Chairperson, you have the floor.
8. Mr Hamadziripi (Zimbabwe) (Chairperson of the Nominations Committee):   Thank you, Madam President. Group III, in which there are four seats to be filled; invalid ballot papers: 5. Names  of the Member States candidates and number of votes secured by each of them in descending order of the number of  votes: Brazil: 160; Cuba: 159; Ecuador: 157; Mexico: 152. Thank you.
9. The President:   Thank you, Sir. I therefore declare the following four Member States elected Members of the Executive Board:  Brazil, Cuba, Ecuador and Mexico. We shall now turn to Group IV, which had six seats to be filled. Your Excellency, you  have the floor.
10. Mr Hamadziripi (Zimbabwe) (Chairperson of the Nominations Committee):   Thank you, Madam President. Group IV, in which there are six seats to be filled; invalid ballot papers: 3. Names  of the Member States candidates and number of votes secured by each of them in descending order of the number of  votes: Republic of Korea: 163; Thailand: 163; Indonesia: 160; Pakistan: 156; Papua New Guinea: 152; Afghanistan: 146.  Thank you.
11. The President:   Thank you very much, Your Excellency. I therefore declare the following six Member States elected to the  Executive Board: Afghanistan, Indonesia, Pakistan, Papua New Guinea, Republic of Korea and Thailand. We shall now  turn to Group V (a). Your Excellency, you have the floor.
12. Mr Hamadziripi (Zimbabwe) (Chairperson of the Nominations Committee):   Thank you, Madam President. Group V (a), in which there are eight seats to be filled; invalid ballot papers: 3.  Names of the Member States candidates and number of votes secured by each of them in descending order of the  number of votes: Nigeria: 148; Namibia: 127; Ethiopia: 126; Mali: 125; Gabon: 119; Malawi: 114; Angola: 104; Gambia:
100; Benin: 95; Guinea: 86; Equatorial Guinea: 64; Togo: 50. Thank you.
13. The President:   Thank you, Mr Chairman. I therefore declare the following eight Member States elected to the Executive Board:  Angola, Ethiopia, Gabon, Gambia, Malawi, Mali, Namibia, and Nigeria. We shall now go to Group V (b). Mr Chairperson,  you have the floor.
14. Mr Hamadziripi (Zimbabwe) (Chairperson of the Nominations Committee):   Thank you, Madam President. Group V (b), in which there are three seats to be filled; invalid ballot papers: 10.  Names of the Member States candidates and number of votes secured by each of them in descending order of the  number of votes: United Arab Emirates: 144; Tunisia: 107; Saudi Arabia: 106; Jordan: 103; Libya: 36. Thank you, Madam  President.
15. The President:   Thank you, Your Excellency. I therefore declare the following three Member States elected to the Executive  Board: Saudi Arabia, Tunisia and United Arab Emirates. Ladies and gentlemen, I wish to warmly congratulate all the  Member States that have been elected to the Executive Board. On behalf of the General Conference, I thank His  Excellency, the Chairperson of the Nominations Committee, for the good work of the Committee. It was indeed a great  pleasure to work with you. Your Excellency, you have the floor. Can we have some silence, please? Thank you. Your  Excellency, you have the floor.
16. Mr Hamadziripi (Zimbabwe) (Chairperson of the Nominations Committee):  Thank you very much, Madam President. I merely wish to offer my very warm congratulations to all the Member States  that have been elected to the Executive Board and wish the others the best of luck in future elections. Thank you.
17. The President:   Thank you, Mr President. As I said, I wanted to thank His Excellency, the Chairperson of the Nominations  Committee, for the good work of the Committee. It was indeed a great pleasure to work with you. I also wish to express  my appreciation to the six tellers. I think that we should have a little silence, please, so that we can thank the tellers.  Please, thank you very much. The tellers: Ms Teresa Salado (Portugal), Mr Eldar Bayramov (Azerbaijan), Ms Gloria  Henríquez (Nicaragua), Mr Ali Hajilari (Islamic Republic of Iran), Mr Ronald Kaulule (Zambia), Ms Cheryl Ghostine  (Lebanon). We appreciate all the effort they devoted to the electoral process and thank them. I will now give the floor to  the Secretary for an announcement.
18. Le Secrétaire :   Merci Madame. Madame la Présidente, suite à l’annonce faite à la neuvième séance plénière sur le droit de  vote, j’ai le plaisir de vous annoncer que la Sierra Leone s’est acquittée du montant minimum requis pour participer aux  scrutins pendant la 36e session de la Conférence générale. Merci.
19. The President   Thank you, Sir. Ladies and gentlemen, we have thus finished our work for today. The plenary will reconvene in  one week’s time to examine the reports of the commissions and committees. The next meeting will be on Wednesday
9 November at 3 p.m. I wish you all a pleasant and celebratory evening. This meeting is now adjourned.  The meeting rose at 5.55 p.m.  La séance est levée à 17 h 55   Se levanta la sesión a las 17.55  Заседание закрывается в 17.55  الظهربعد  ٥,٥٥رفعت اسلسة يف الساعة    会议于 17 时 55 分结束