1.1 The President:   Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen, dear friends. We have a quorum, so we will continue our plenary session.  I declare open the fifteenth plenary meeting of the General Conference. We have come to the final stages of the 36th  session of the General Conference. With exception of the joint meeting of commissions, all committees and commissions  have concluded their work. Today and tomorrow, we will examine and adopt the reports according to the schedule  adopted by the General Committee upon my proposal which has slightly changed. Indeed, there have been some last- minute changes to the agenda of the plenary. Due to the commitments of Her Excellency, Ms Alissandra Cummins,  related to the preparation of the joint meeting of commissions, the report of the Administrative Commission will be  examined tomorrow afternoon instead of today. We apologize for any inconvenience this may have caused.
1.2 This afternoon, we will therefore examine the reports of the Nominations Committee and the PRX Commission.  Tomorrow morning, we will examine the reports by the Education, Communication and Information, Natural Sciences and  Social and Human Sciences Commissions. Finally, tomorrow afternoon, we will examine the reports of the Culture and  ADM Commissions as well as of the joint meeting of commissions.  Report of the Nominations Committee (36 C/82)  Rapport du Comité des candidatures (36 C/82)  Informe del Comité de Candidaturas (36 C/82)  Доклад Комитета по кандидатурам (36 С/82)  )٨٢م/٣٦جتقرير لجنة الترشيحات    提名委员会的报告 (36 С/82)
2. The President:   Ladies and gentlemen, we therefore start with the examination of the report of the Nominations Committee. I am  pleased to give the floor to His Excellency, Mr David Hamadziripi, Chairperson of the Nominations Committee, who will  introduce the report contained in document 36 C/82. Mr Chairperson, the floor is yours.
3.1 Mr Hamadziripi (Zimbabwe) (Chairperson of the Nominations Committee):   Thank you very much, Madam President. Distinguished delegates, ladies and gentlemen, the report you have  before you, document 36 C/82 reflects the proposals of the Nominations Committee concerning the nomination of an  External Auditor and the composition of committees, commissions and other subsidiary organs of the General  Conference, following the results of the elections held on Friday 4 November.
3.2 Madam President, once the report has been adopted by the plenary, I shall, if you wish, make my comments  before the adoption of the report. [President agrees]. Thank you very much; I will proceed to make my comments before  the adoption of the report.
3.3 At the outset, I should like to thank you for the confidence you placed in me, by assigning me this responsibility,  and for your cooperation over the last three weeks in participating in the work of the Nominations Committee. This has  enabled the Committee to carry out its main activities effectively, namely to organize the election of the Members of the  Executive Board for the period 2011-2015, as per item 13.1, the elections of members of the various commissions,  committees and other subsidiary organs of the General Conference pursuant to item 13.2 to 13.15 and the appointment  of the External Auditor pursuant to item 13.16 of the agenda.
3.4 Before moving to the electoral process, I would like to inform you that South Sudan has officially informed the  Director-General of its wish to belong to Group V (a) concerning the grouping of Member States for the purpose of  elections to the Executive Board, what we usually call electoral groups. Electoral Group V (a), through its President, has  also informed the Nominations Committee that it is in agreement with this proposal. The Nominations Committee would  therefore like the plenary of the General Conference to take note of the membership of South Sudan to Group V (a) for  the purpose of elections to the Executive Board.
3.5 The first item on the Committee’s agenda of work right at the beginning of the session of the General  Conference consisted of the submission to the General Conference of the list of nominations for the post of President  and Vice-Presidents of the General Conference and Chairpersons of the programme commissions, the Administrative  Commission and committees in accordance with the recommendations adopted by the Executive Board in
187 EX/Decision 26 and 186 EX/Decision 22. The Committee then undertook to determine the nominations for  consideration of the Vice-Chairpersons and Rapporteurs who would constitute the bureaux of the General Conference.
3.6 In this regard, I would like to note the difficulty we experienced in constituting the bureaux of the various and  respective commissions and committees. The Education Commission, for instance, completed its work without a  Rapporteur. In the early days of our Committee’s work, I felt quite lonely for lack of other members of its Bureau. On one  occasion, I had to request one commission to delay the opening of its meetings as I had responsibilities to fulfil in other
369  commissions. Positions on the bureaux of the commissions and committees remained unfilled for a long time in spite of  my appeals even prior to the opening of the session to the heads of the electoral groups to canvass their members for  candidates to fill these posts. I cannot overemphasize that the efficiency and the effective working of the commissions  and the committees is not solely dependent on the Chairpersons. It demands the involvement of all Member States.  Perhaps we could consider asking electoral groups to propose members of the bureaux of the commissions and  committees at the same time with those concerning the chairpersons of those bodies to avoid the situation we  experienced at this session.
3.7 I am pleased to report that we had a very impressive turnout during the elections both for the members of the  Executive Board on 2 November and for the subsidiary organs and the External Auditor on 4 November. For the  Executive Board, 181 Member States out of the 186 entitled to vote in that election, participated. For the other election  on 4 November, we had a lower figure of 171 Member States out of 186 entitled to vote, turning up at the polls. These  figures are impressive, nevertheless, and give legitimacy to our electoral processes and their outcomes.
3.8 Nevertheless, considering that we are dealing with a literate and sophisticated electorate, I was struck by the  high number of invalid ballots. In the Executive Board elections, a total of 25 invalid ballots were recorded while in the 10  elections conducted for members of the subsidiary bodies, 58 ballots were declared invalid. I have not carried out a  deeper analysis to state with any certainty the cause of this phenomenon, but I would like to suggest that the Committee  consider undertaking more concerted deliberate and clearer voter education exercises in future sessions.
3.9 Presently, only one voting simulation exercise is carried out for both sets of elections. Separating the simulation  exercises could also be considered. In my view, no additional meetings would be necessary to accommodate extra  simulation exercises should this be considered necessary or agreeable. In fulfilling its responsibilities, the Committee  serves as an important and essential forum for the provision and dissemination of accurate, harmonized and consistent  information on the items on its agenda. Both the Member States and the Secretariat have a critical complementary role  to play in this regard. The Secretariat needs timely information from Member States to include in the documents for the  Committee’s meetings. The Secretariat does not generate this information itself. It comes from you, the Member States. I  have observed at very close quarters the hard work and long hours that the Secretariat put into the preparation of the  Committee’s documents. The Secretariat, for its part, must reflect the information provided by the Member States  accurately and consistently in all documents.
3.10 Madam President, I would like to emphasize that due to intensive and fruitful consultations among the electoral  groups, only 10 secret ballots were held out of a possible total of 74 for the elections of the subsidiary organs. This  illustrates the tendency of Member States to reach an agreement in advance within the electoral groups so as to ensure  that the number of candidates matches the number of seats to be filled. It enables the Committee to save on time and on  other resources when considering those items when there is a clean slate. It is nevertheless regrettable that not enough  candidates were received from some electoral groups for positions on two subsidiary organs, namely the Legal  Committee and the Conciliation and Good Offices Commission Responsible for Seeking the Settlement of any Dispute  that may arise between States Parties to the Convention against Discrimination in Education. It is my hope that, in future,  all electoral groups will fill their quota of allocated seats on each subsidiary organ.
3.11 Finally, I would like to make the following observations. First, I would like to bring to your attention the issue of  seat-sharing. As you are aware, seat-sharing is an arrangement internal to an electoral group and is not recognized or  provided for in the statutes of the concerned subsidiary organs. Therefore, seat-sharing arrangements cannot be  reflected in the official documents of the General Conference. It should be noted that seat-sharing is not an automatic  process involving one State resigning and designating another to take its place for the remainder of the term. Seat- sharing can only concretely take place when the General Conference elects - as per its Rules of Procedure, either by  voting or by the clean slate procedure - a State to fill the vacant seat for a four-year term of office. The elected State is  elected for a four-year term and the official records reflect that position. The elected State remains a member of the body  or organ until such time as it submits its resignation therefrom.
3.12 Second, the Committee’s attention was drawn to some documents authored by the Secretariat and bearing  UNESCO emblems but containing a disclaimer that “this is an unofficial document”. There was also a document that was  circulated with all the hallmarks of an official document but bearing a footnote that it was an unofficial document. The  Committee did not obtain a satisfactory answer as to what was unofficial about that document. One of those so-called  unofficial documents caused avoidable confusion and misunderstanding in the Committee. I recommend that, in future,  the Secretariat avoid circulating documents with such disclaimers and that more effort be made to ensure that one part of  the Secretariat knows what the other is circulating on a subject of common concern to both of them.
3.13 Third, there are deadlines for the submission of candidatures but none for their withdrawal. The absence of a  deadline for the withdrawal of candidates for election to the Executive Board and to the subsidiary organs of the General  Conference poses a logistical challenge for the Secretariat. The challenge is to reflect all changes and withdrawals at the  time of election in real time, in the official documents and in all languages. Therefore, I suggest that the issue be taken  up by the Member States with a view to agreeing on possible measures to improve on this aspect of the electoral  process.
3.14 Finally, I should like to raise the issue of the ballot paper for the elections of members from GRULAC (Electoral  Group III) to the Executive Board. The ballot paper concerning Electoral Group III that was distributed at this session of  the General Conference is similar to that used in the previous General Conference sessions which reflects the seat  distribution as agreed within that group. Should the members of Electoral Group III wish to change the presentation of  the ballot, I should advise that this be done transparently and in good time, not on the eve of the elections.
3.15 Madam President, my statement would not be complete without expressing my personal thanks to you for your  interest and your continued support for the work of our Committee and the electoral process. We were deeply touched  that you even honoured us with your presence at one of our meetings. I would like to deeply thank my dear colleague,  Her Excellency, Ms Lorena Sol de Pool, the Ambassador and Permanent Delegate of El Salvador to UNESCO, and Vice- President of the General Conference, for her able leadership and supervision of the elections of the Members of the  Executive Board. I also take this opportunity to express my gratitude to the tellers for the time and effort they devoted to  the electoral process. These are Ms Tamila Aliyeva of Azerbaijan, Mr José Antonio Blanco of Spain, Mr Eldar Bayramov  of Azerbijan, Ms Cheryl Ghostine of Lebanon, Mr Ali Hajilari of the Islamic Republic of Iran, Ms Gloria Henriquez of  Nicaruagua, Mr Ronald Kaulule of Zambia, Ms Rosa Ester Moreira de Lemoine of El Salvador, Ms Teresa Salado of  Portugal and Mr Shah Ahmed Shafi of Bangladesh. I also want to express the same thanks to the Legal Counsellor,  Mr Christophe Badaroux-Mendieta. I equally extend my thanks to the Vice-Chairpersons and Rapporteur of the  Nominations Committee for their support and wise counsel. My thanks also go to the interpreters, technical and support  staff and the Secretariat of the General Conference for their invaluable contributions to the Committee’s work. Finally, but  not least, let me express my deep appreciation to the secretariat of the Nominations Committee, to Ms María del Mar  Marcos, Ms Patricia Denoyelle, Ms Rosanna Karam, Ms Shamila Nair-Bedouelle, Mr Michee Detinho, and Mr Ieng Srong,  the Secretary of the Committee, for their professionalism, devotion and conscientious dedication to their work. I thank  them for their cheerfulness, and friendliness which helped to make our task lighter. It was a joy to work with each and  every one of them. Madam President, I submit the report of the Nominations Committee in document 36 C/82 for your  consideration. Thank you.
4. The President:   Thank you very much, Mr Chairperson, for a clear report and for chairing the Committee efficiently throughout  the General Conference. I also wish to thank all Committee Members for their work. Dear colleagues, are there any  comments on document 36 C/82? I see none. May I then assume that the General Conference takes note of the report of  the Nominations Committee and adopts the recommendations contained therein? I see no objections. It is so decided.  Report of the PRX Commission (General questions, programme support and external relations) (36 C/70)  Rapport de la Commission PRX (Questions générales, soutien du programme et relations extérieures) (36 C/70)  Informe de la Comisión PRX (Asuntos generales, apoyo del programa y relaciones exteriores) (36 C/70)  Доклад Комиссии PRX (Общие вопросы, поддержка выполнения программы и внешние связи) (36 C/70)   )٧٠م/٣٦ج )PRX( تقرير لجنة المسائل العامة ومساندة البرنامج والعالقات الخارجية 计划与对外关系委员会（一般 性问题、计划支助及对外关系）的报告（36 C/70）
5. The President:   Your Excellencies, the next item on our agenda for this afternoon is the report of the PRX Commission. I would  therefore like to give the floor to Mr Amadou Maïlele, who will introduce the report contained in document 36 C/70. Sir,  you have the floor.
6.1 M. Maïlélé (Niger) (Président de la Commission PRX) :   Madame la Présidente de la Conférence générale, Madame la Présidente du Conseil exécutif, Monsieur le  Directeur général adjoint, Mesdames et Messieurs les Délégués, Mesdames et Messieurs, c’est un grand honneur et un  immense privilège pour moi de m’adresser à cette honorable Assemblée pour lui livrer la substance des débats de la  Commission PRX, relatifs aux questions générales, au soutien du programme et aux relations extérieures, de la
36e session de la Conférence générale. Je tiens à exprimer ma sincère gratitude aux membres de la Commission pour  m’avoir soutenu dans l’exercice de mes fonctions en tant que Président et pour avoir réellement travaillé dans un esprit  de consensus et de dialogue. Permettez-moi aussi de rendre un hommage appuyé aux membres du Bureau de la  Commission qui ont accompagné celle-ci tout au long de ses travaux.
6.2 Mesdames et Messieurs, la Commission s’est réunie du 27 au 31 octobre 2011, examinant, en six séances, les  neuf points inscrits à son ordre du jour. Je m’efforcerai de rendre compte de manière exhaustive de l’intensité de nos  débats. Même si le temps ne me permet pas de souligner une à une les présentations détaillées des représentants de la  Directrice générale, je tiens à préciser que le travail de notre Commission a été grandement facilité par leurs  contributions et je les en remercie vivement. La Commission ayant adopté, sans amendement, la plupart des projets de  résolution afférents à son ordre du jour, je ne mentionnerai, dans mon rapport oral, que ceux auxquels nous avons cru  devoir apporter des changements. Je vous invite donc à vous référer au rapport écrit de la Commission (document
6.3 La Commission a commencé ses travaux par l’examen de deux points ayant des incidences majeures sur  l’ensemble des méthodes de travail de l’Organisation, dans le droit fil du grand chantier de réforme qui la mobilise depuis  deux ans. Il s’agit du point 6.2 relatif à l’Évaluation externe indépendante de l’UNESCO (EEI) et du point 6.3 relatif à la  synchronisation des cycles de planification avec l’examen quadriennal complet du système des Nations Unies.
6.4 Concernant l’EEI, la Commission PRX a été appelée à considérer ses recommandations sous l’angle des  orientations stratégiques 4, « Renforcer la gouvernance », et 5, « Élaborer une stratégie de partenariat ». Les autres  orientations stratégiques liées aux aspects programmatiques de l’Organisation ont été examinées dans le cadre de la  Commission conjointe.
6.5 De très nombreux États membres ont salué les recommandations de l’EEI, persuadés que le Rapport  d’évaluation externe et son suivi seraient décisifs pour accroître la pertinence de l’Organisation et sa visibilité, et que  cela mènerait nécessairement à une amélioration de la mise en œuvre du programme et de son aspect. De nombreux
371  orateurs ont félicité le Groupe de travail ad hoc et le Secrétariat pour le travail accompli dans la formulation d’actions  opérationnelles concrètes pour réformer l’Organisation et pour la synergie qu’ils ont su créer à cette fin. Ils ont également  salué les initiatives déjà entreprises par la Directrice générale afin de mettre en œuvre certaines recommandations. Les  États membres ont accueilli positivement l’appel lancé en faveur d’une stratégie globale de partenariat tournée vers  l’extérieur et ont souligné la nécessité de définir en même temps des stratégies de sortie de ces partenariats.
6.6 Un nombre considérable d’orateurs ont mis l’accent sur le rôle important des commissions nationales dans les  réformes, notamment lorsqu’il s’agit d’accroître la visibilité et l’impact de l’Organisation au niveau national. Ce vaste  réseau doit être considéré comme une interface vitale avec les pays, un soutien essentiel à la stratégie de  décentralisation de l’Organisation et à sa stratégie en matière de partenariat. À ce titre, compte tenu de la diversité de  leurs rôles et de leurs capacités dans leurs pays respectifs, la nécessité de les renforcer et d’échanger les informations a  été fortement soulignée. Permettez-moi de conclure ce point en soulignant le consensus des États membres quant à  l’importance de la mise en œuvre des recommandations de l’EEI, et la convergence de ce consensus avec l’engagement  pris par la Directrice générale en matière de réforme.
6.7 Madame la Présidente de la Conférence générale, honorables délégués, en ce qui concerne le point 6.3, de  nombreux États membres ont appuyé la proposition de modification des cycles de programmation des documents C/4 et  C/5. Ces changements offriront, sans aucun doute, des possibilités accrues de coordination et de coopération  interinstitutions, notamment sur le terrain.
6.8 La Commission a estimé que des cycles de programmation plus longs permettraient à l’Organisation de mieux  s’acquitter de son mandat dans ses domaines de compétence. Le cycle quadriennal du C/5 donnera plus de temps pour  la planification stratégique et de meilleures opportunités de suivi et d’évaluation efficace de la mise en œuvre du  programme de l'Organisation, y compris en ce qui concerne l'identification de résultats et d’indicateurs de performance à  long terme. À cet égard, certains orateurs ont insisté sur la nécessité de s’assurer que les ajustements programmatiques  s’effectueraient réellement à travers la nature évolutive du C/4 et du C/5. Plusieurs orateurs ont souligné le rôle crucial  joué par les commissions nationales dans le processus de consultation menant à la formulation du C/4 et du C/5 et  l'importance de s'assurer que les consultations ne soient pas réduites par le nouveau cycle de programmation. Enfin,  tout en étant favorables au maintien du cycle biennal pour les ouvertures de crédits du C/5, certains intervenants se sont  dits disposés à examiner d'autres propositions qui pourraient être faites par le Conseil exécutif afin d'assurer un lien clair  avec la programmation quadriennale.
6.9 Chers collègues, avant de commencer son examen du projet de C/5, la Commission a abordé le point 5.7 et  prêté une attention particulière aux représentants élus du 7e Forum des jeunes qui ont présenté les recommandations du  Forum en relation avec les thèmes couverts par la Commission PRX. Pour faire court mais juste, nous dirons que les  États membres ont fait chorus et que l’initiative du Forum a fait florès pour ces multiples enjeux. Certains orateurs ont  exprimé leur souhait d’intégrer davantage le Forum des jeunes à la Conférence générale afin d’encourager la  participation des jeunes aux délégations nationales. D’autres ont soulevé la question de la définition des thèmes du  Forum et ont, en revanche, considéré qu’il pourrait avoir lieu plus tôt au cours de l’exercice biennal afin de permettre une  meilleure préparation des jeunes délégués.
6.10 J’en viens maintenant au point 4.2 concernant le Projet de programme et de budget pour 2012-2013, qui a  occupé une grande partie de nos travaux et qui a été examiné en huit points distincts, chacun consacré à l’une des sous- parties du projet de 36 C/5 relevant de la Commission PRX. La Commission a d'abord examiné la partie consacrée aux  relations extérieures et à l'information du public, un point qui a battu un record en termes d’intervenants ayant félicité la  Directrice générale pour les changements entrepris en vue de fusionner les relations extérieures et les services de  communication en un seul secteur. Une fois de plus, l’accent a été mis sur les commissions nationales et leur capacité à  entrer en contact avec la société civile et à accroître ainsi la visibilité de l'Organisation. Certains orateurs ont d’ailleurs  appelé à une meilleure communication par le Secrétariat des événements et des publications de l'UNESCO de manière  à permettre aux commissions nationales d’apporter leur contribution en termes d’information du public au niveau national.  Plusieurs États membres ont fait référence à l'examen récent de la coopération du Secrétariat avec les commissions  nationales mené par le Service d’évaluation et d’audit (IOS) et ont soutenu la proposition de mettre en place un groupe  de travail tripartite, composé de délégations permanentes, de commissions nationales et du Secrétariat. Plusieurs  délégués ont souligné qu’à la lumière des résultats de cet examen et au regard de la réforme en cours du dispositif hors  Siège, le rôle des commissions nationales devrait être clarifié et revitalisé afin qu'elles puissent davantage participer à la  mise en œuvre des programmes. À cet égard, les petits États insulaires en développement du Pacifique ont demandé un  soutien accru de leurs commissions nationales compte tenu de leur isolement au sein de la région.
6.11 Madame la Présidente de la Conférence générale, chers collègues, parmi les points sensibles l’on citera le  Programme de participation et le Programme de bourses, qui ont tous deux été reconnus comme d’importants outils  pour le renforcement des capacités des commissions nationales, en particulier dans les pays en développement, et pour  que l'UNESCO atteigne ses objectifs et accroisse sa pertinence et sa visibilité sur le terrain. En ce qui concerne le  Programme de participation, d’une manière générale, les intervenants ont reconnu les efforts déployés par le Secrétariat  pour améliorer le fonctionnement du Programme grâce à l’élaboration de critères clairs et l'approbation accélérée des  demandes. Certains orateurs ont néanmoins estimé que des améliorations supplémentaires devraient être apportées, en  particulier dans la sélection des projets, en simplifiant les procédures et en accélérant l’ensemble des processus. La  responsabilité redditionnelle, le mécanisme des rapports et des frais de transaction ont également été évoqués.  Plusieurs délégués de la région Asie-Pacifique ont proposé d’augmenter le nombre de projets régionaux pour mieux  répondre aux besoins spécifiques de cette région et ont demandé qu'au moins un de ces projets soit réservé à la sous- région Pacifique étant donné le nombre de pays concernés. De même, il a été suggéré de mettre en place un moratoire
372  afin que les commissions nationales des PEID du Pacifique puissent bénéficier à nouveau du Programme de  participation.
6.12 Chers collègues, la Commission a été rassurée par le représentant de la Directrice générale sur le fait que la  priorité donnée à l'Afrique, aux PEID et aux PMA serait maintenue dans le prochain exercice biennal. Toutefois, une  préoccupation majeure a été exprimée par plusieurs délégués quant à l'allocation budgétaire du Programme de  participation, qui est réduite dans le projet de 36 C/5. La Commission a donc considéré les options possibles pour  répondre à cette préoccupation et formulé un éventuel amendement au projet de résolution, visant à demander à la  Directrice générale d'utiliser les fonds restants après la clôture des comptes du 35 C/5 de manière à maintenir  l’allocation budgétaire du Programme de participation à un niveau qui ne serait pas inférieur à celui qui figurait dans le
35 C/5, conformément, du reste, à la recommandation du Conseil exécutif à cet égard. La Commission PRX n'étant pas  l’instance appropriée de la Conférence générale pour se prononcer sur cet aspect de la question, le projet de résolution  concernant le Programme de participation a finalement été approuvé sans ses dispositions budgétaires et l'amendement  a été proposé à la réunion conjointe des commissions pour qu’il soit étudié dans le cadre de ses délibérations. En ce qui  concerne le Programme de bourses, la Commission a réaffirmé son rôle majeur pour les pays les moins avancés, et  souligné combien il était important de renforcer les capacités des commissions nationales afin qu’elles diffusent  l'information concernant ce programme.
6.13 Éminents délégués, j’en viens maintenant au débat portant sur l’Institut de statistique de l'UNESCO (ISU). Tous  les orateurs qui se sont exprimés sur ce point ont félicité l’Institut pour ses résultats et accueilli positivement, au-delà de  l’éducation, l’ouverture de l’Institut aux domaines de la culture et des sciences. Ils ont également encouragé l’Institut à  multiplier ses échanges avec les autres secteurs de programme. Les modules régionaux introduits récemment, ainsi que  les statistiques sur l’emploi dans le domaine de la culture et sur l’alphabétisation, ont été appréciés. En outre, il a été  souligné que les données qualitatives devraient être intégrées dans l’évaluation des objectifs pédagogiques et que les  expressions culturelles devraient être davantage prises en compte dans l’évaluation des statistiques culturelles.  Plusieurs États membres ont insisté sur l’importance de coopérer avec les bureaux nationaux de statistique et ont  vivement encouragé l’Institut à continuer de former le personnel de ces bureaux, notamment ceux d’Afrique. En ce qui  concerne la partie du projet de C/5 consacrée à la mise en œuvre des programmes décentralisés, les États membres qui  ont pris la parole ont encouragé la Directrice générale à poursuivre le processus de décentralisation et d’alignement de  l’Organisation sur la réforme des Nations Unies, en particulier l’Initiative « Unis dans l’action ». Plusieurs orateurs ont  souligné le rôle essentiel de l’Organisation dans le processus de réforme du système des Nations Unies et ont appelé à  impliquer davantage les commissions nationales dans le Plan-cadre des Nations Unies pour l'aide au développement.  Un certain nombre de délégués ont appelé à ce que des indicateurs de performance spécifiques soient élaborés pour  mesurer l’efficacité et l’efficience des bureaux hors Siège et la mise en œuvre des programmes décentralisés,  permettant ainsi aux organes directeurs de faire des choix appropriés dans le cadre de la réforme en cours. À cet égard,  les États membres ont sollicité des éclaircissements concernant la hiérarchie entre les différents bureaux hors Siège et  avec le Siège, les rapports hiérarchiques étant perçus comme particulièrement complexes. En outre, les États membres  ont, dans le cadre de ce processus de réforme, souligné le besoin d’améliorer la communication, la coordination et la  coopération entre les bureaux hors Siège de l’UNESCO et les commissions nationales.
6.14 Madame la Présidente, distingués délégués, permettez-moi à présent de rendre compte du débat de la  Commission PRX sur la partie du projet de C/5 relative à la coordination et au suivi de l’action en faveur de l’Afrique. Les  États membres qui ont pris la parole ont réaffirmé l’importance de la priorité accordée à l’Afrique par l’Organisation et se  sont félicité du renforcement du Département Afrique dans le but de consolider les acquis et d’entamer un nouveau  processus de dynamisation programmatique. Ils ont par ailleurs insisté sur la nécessité de renforcer les liens entre le  Département, les bureaux hors Siège sur le continent et les commissions nationales. En relation avec l’évaluation interne  de la Priorité Afrique, certains orateurs ont proposé que le Secrétariat s’attèle d’ores et déjà à clarifier les rôles dans la  gestion de cette priorité afin d’éviter toute duplication d’efforts entre le Département Afrique, les secteurs de programme,  les bureaux hors Siège et la plate-forme intersectorielle, pour laquelle les États membres demandent la mobilisation de  ressources extrabudgétaires et la formulation de projets concrets. S’agissant de la coordination et du suivi de l’action en  faveur de l’égalité entre les sexes, les orateurs ont félicité la Directrice générale pour les progrès accomplis et les  résultats obtenus, notamment en termes de plaidoyer de l’Organisation, de coopération avec d'autres institutions des  Nations Unies, de mise en œuvre du programme et de gestion interne. Certains orateurs ont souligné la nécessité de  mener des interventions concrètes et à long terme, de poursuivre les partenariats avec ONU-Femmes et les chaires  UNESCO et de prendre des mesures tangibles pour assurer la participation des femmes dans les sciences et dans  d'autres secteurs où elles sont sous-représentées. L’examen de la partie du C/5 consacrée à la gestion des  connaissances à l’échelle de l’Organisation n’a suscité que peu d’interventions, si ce n’est pour demander des  éclaircissements, notamment sur le calendrier d'élaboration et de mise en œuvre de la stratégie et sur les informations  fournies aux États membres en ce qui concerne les progrès de celle-ci, ainsi que sur la coordination avec d'autres  institutions au sein du système des Nations Unies.
6.15 Honorables délégués, le dernier débat de notre Commission concernant le C/5 portait sur la planification  stratégique, le suivi de l’exécution du programme et l’élaboration du budget. Tous les États membres qui se sont exprimé  ont reconnu l’intérêt pour l’Organisation d’avoir unifié sous un même service la planification stratégique, la mobilisation  des ressources extrabudgétaires et la planification du budget. En matière de planification, la Commission a une fois de  plus insisté sur le rôle essentiel des commissions nationales à cet égard et a tenu à l’expliciter davantage dans le projet  de résolution. En matière d’élaboration du budget, quelques orateurs ont évoqué la possibilité que l’UNESCO puisse  aussi à l’avenir passer à une budgétisation axée sur les résultats (RBB). Quelques États membres ont exprimé le souhait  que la mobilisation des ressources extrabudgétaires soit plus transparente et cohérente, au-delà des efforts déjà  entrepris en ce sens par le biais du Programme additionnel complémentaire (CAP) et de SISTER. Ils ont également
373  suggéré que des formations spécifiques soient organisées pour les commissions nationales dans le domaine de la  mobilisation des ressources. Enfin, plusieurs orateurs ont souligné l’importance de la prospective, notamment dans  l’approche intersectorielle, et ont demandé plus de précisions quant aux activités prévues en ce qui concerne la  formulation des Objectifs de développement convenus au niveau international au-delà des Objectifs du Millénaire pour le  développement et leur date butoir de 2015.
6.16 Mesdames et Messieurs, après mon rapport sur le C/5, qui a été, je le reconnais, particulièrement long,  j’entends à présent rendre compte brièvement de nos débats concernant les cinq points restants qui ont été examinés  par la Commission. Le point 9.2, « Nouvelles Directives », concernant le partenariat de l'UNESCO avec les organisations  non gouvernementales a été traité sans débat compte tenu de l’examen approfondi dont il a été l’objet tant au sein du  Comité sur les ONG qu’au sein du Conseil exécutif. Certains orateurs ont exprimé leurs réserves quant à la possibilité  que les ONG aient accès au Programme de participation, ainsi qu’aux modalités de leur participation. Cependant, dans  la mesure où la résolution du C/5 relative au Programme de participation mentionne explicitement les ONG parmi les  bénéficiaires et décline également les modalités de leur participation, la Commission a convenu de répondre aux  préoccupations exprimées en amendant légèrement les directives afin de refléter davantage ce lien évident avec la  résolution du C/5 sur le Programme de participation.
6.17 Sous le point 5.1, « Propositions des États membres relatives à la célébration des anniversaires auxquels  l’UNESCO pourrait être associée en 2012-2013 », les membres de la Commission ont exprimé leur soutien en  soulignant leur rôle pour accroître la visibilité de l’UNESCO, tout en insistant sur la diversité culturelle. Rejoignant le  Secrétariat, ils ont reconnu qu’il était important de disposer d’une liste d’anniversaires plus représentative, à la fois quant  à la répartition géographique et quant à l’équilibre des genres.
6.18 Concernant le point 3.1, « Examen par la Conférence générale des futures procédures pour l’élaboration des  projets de stratégie à moyen terme (C/4), et sur la base du projet de résolution présenté par le Danemark et cosigné par  la Norvège », la Commission a souhaité soumettre à la Conférence générale un projet de résolution amendé  recommandant que l’examen des amendements proposés par les États membres sur le C/4 lors de la session de la  Conférence générale soit confié à la réunion conjointe des commissions et que le groupe de travail éventuellement  constitué ait un caractère strictement rédactionnel.
6.19 Au titre du point 9.4, « Définition des régions en vue de l’exécution par l’Organisation des activités de caractère  régional », la Commission a donné voix à la requête de Curaçao et Sint Maarten d'appartenir à la région Amérique latine  et Caraïbes en vue de leur participation aux activités régionales de l'Organisation, et à celle de la République du Soudan  pour la région Afrique.
6.20 Enfin, au titre du point 5.9, « Création des instituts et centres de catégorie 2 placés sous l’égide de l’UNESCO »,  la Commission a approuvé sans débat préalable, comme proposé par le Conseil exécutif, l’établissement d’un institut  international pour la paix à l’Université Rutgers aux États-Unis d’Amérique, en tant qu’institut de catégorie 2.
6.21 Mesdames et Messieurs, j’arrive maintenant au terme de mon rapport oral. J’espère avoir restitué fidèlement la  richesse de nos débats, liés à des décisions importantes pour la politique et les actions futures de l'Organisation.  Permettez-moi de remercier très chaleureusement les membres du Secrétariat de la Commission PRX pour leur  efficacité, leur touchante disponibilité, ainsi que le soutien ô combien précieux qu’ils m’ont apporté tout au long de  l’exercice de mes fonctions : Mme Sabina Colombo, Secrétaire de la Commission PRX, Mme Petra van Vucht Tijssen,  M. Tee Wee Ang, M. Davide Storti, Mme Marketa Brustlova, et Mme Marie-Noëlle Branet. Comment, pour terminer,  passer sous silence cette fabuleuse élite dont nous connaissons la voix et dont nous aimerions cependant découvrir le  visage ? Comment, enfin, ne pas saluer ces hommes de l’ombre dont l’héroïsme au quotidien nous rend la tâche si facile,  si agréable – je veux bien sûr parler des commis ? Mesdames et Messieurs, Monsieur le représentant de Madame la  Directrice générale, Madame la Présidente, je tiens à vous remercier pour votre aimable et patiente écoute.
7. The President:   Thank you very much, Mr Maïlele, for a clear and eloquent presentation. My congratulations also go to you for  your successful chairmanship of the Commission. Are there any comments or suggestions on this report? Shall I then  consider that the plenary takes note of the report of the PRX Commission and hereby adopts the draft resolutions  proposed, subject to the decisions the General Conference may take when adopting the Appropriation Resolution for
2012-2013? Thank you, ladies and gentlemen, it is so decided. I give the floor to Angola.
8. Angola:   Madame la Présidente, la Délégation de l’Angola souhaiterait vous remercier vivement de lui avoir accordé la  parole pour une intervention très courte, visant simplement à demander que soit corrigé le nom de la Reine à la page 9  du rapport 36 C/77, point 8, où il est écrit « 350e anniversaire de la mort de la Reine Njinga Mbandi », avec un « i » final.  Au Brésil, le « e » final se prononce « i » : « Mbandi ». Chez nous, en bantou, c’est « i ». « Ngola K-i-l-w-a-n-g-e », avec  « i » aussi à la fin, le « e » étant brésilien. C’est à cela que se résume notre requête et nous sommes disposés à  adresser un petit mot au Secrétariat aux fins de cette correction. Merci beaucoup, Madame la Présidente.
9. The President:   Thank you very much. You see how many languages we speak, in how many different ways. So we will of  course change this according to your comments. Thank you very much.
10. The President:   Now we come to item 14.1, “Venue of the 37th session of the General Conference”. Dear colleagues, we will  now examine this item. As you can see in document 36 C/45, the Executive Board has already made a recommendation  on this matter through 187 EX/Decision 26. I would like to ask if the General Conference wishes to adopt the draft  resolution contained in paragraph 6 of document 36 C/45, which proposes that the 37th session of the General  Conference be held at the Headquarters of the Organization here in Paris. No other new offers? So I don’t see any  objection here. It is so decided. See you again in two years in Paris. Thank you.  Item 10.7: Working Capital Fund: level and administration (36 C/37 and Add. & Add.2 Rev.)  Point 10.7 : Fonds de roulement : niveau et administration (36 C/37 et Add.-Add.2 Rev.)  Punto 10.7 Fondo de Operaciones: cuantía y administración del Fondo (36 C/37 y Add.-Add.2 Rev.)  Пункт 10.7: Фонд оборотных средств: уровень и управление (36 C/37 and Add.-Add.2 Rev.)  معدلة) ٢و مامة و مامة  ٣٧م/٣٦ج رأس المال العامل: مقداره وإدارته: ١٠,٧البند    项目 10.7: 周转基金：数额和管理 (36 C/37 and Add. &Add.2 Rev.)
11. The President:   Now, ladies and gentlemen, as I mentioned to you, the report of the Administrative Commission will be  examined tomorrow. First, I would like to give the floor to the Director-General who wishes to make an announcement  relating to item 10.7. Madam Director-General, the floor is yours.
12.1 La Directrice générale :   Merci beaucoup, Madame la Présidente. Madame la Présidente du Conseil exécutif, Mesdames et Messieurs  les Ambassadeurs, permettez-moi d’attirer votre attention sur la situation de notre budget. Je tiens à faire preuve de  transparence et de clarté. La situation est difficile, et je pèse mes mots. J’ai mené une série de consultations pour vous  alerter sur nos problèmes et y faire face, de façon collective. Tout d’abord, en ce qui concerne le budget, il est à mon  avis absolument impératif que la Conférence générale adopte la proposition de budget en l’état, et ce pour deux raisons.  D’une part, il ne faut pas préjuger de la situation future et de l’évolution de la situation au cours du prochain biennium  quant à la décision des États-Unis de suspendre leur contribution. D’autre part, si nous devions réduire notre enveloppe  budgétaire dès aujourd’hui, en enlevant par exemple l’équivalent de la contribution américaine, cela équivaudrait en  réalité à une réduction de notre budget non pas de 22 % mais de près du double, ce qui plongerait l’UNESCO dans une  crise extrêmement grave. C’est pourquoi je compte sur vous pour adopter ce budget en l’état. Il repose sur un équilibre  fragile et est le résultat d’un long processus de consultation par les organes directeurs de l’Organisation.
12.2 Je passe maintenant à notre problème le plus immédiat. Avant la fin de cette année, nous devons combler un  déficit de trésorerie de 65 millions de dollars. C’est la question la plus urgente. Ce déficit correspond à la somme due par  les États-Unis au titre de l’année 2011. Les États-Unis ont en effet l’habitude de payer leur contribution à la fin de l’année,  pour des raisons liées à leur calendrier budgétaire. Cette somme, nous ne la percevrons pas. Nous devons donc prendre  des mesures radicales, et nous devons les prendre maintenant, à cette Conférence générale. Dès la semaine dernière,  l’Équipe de direction a commencé à revoir l’ensemble de nos activités prévues pour novembre et décembre. J’ai  suspendu l’ensemble de nos engagements. J’ai effectivement suspendu l’exécution de nos programmes pour les réviser  jusqu’à la fin de l’année. Nous sommes en train de passer en revue l’ensemble des activités prévues pour novembre et  décembre, dans tous les domaines, dans tous les secteurs, y compris les engagements contractuels, les voyages du  personnel, les publications, les coûts de communication, les réunions, etc. Grâce à toutes ces mesures, nous estimons  pouvoir dégager une économie de 35 millions de dollars. Mais cela ne suffira pas à résoudre notre problème. Nous  regardons également du côté de notre Fonds de roulement(« Working Capital Fund » en anglais). Il s’élève à 30 millions  de dollars et représente 4,5 % de notre budget total, ce qui nous laisse trois à quatre semaines d’autonomie. Permettez- moi aussi d’ajouter que c’est un niveau très bas comparé à d’autres organisations du système. L’intégralité de cette  somme, 30 millions de dollars, sera injectée pour combler le déficit de 65 millions. Cela signifie que nous finirons l’année  sans aucune réserve, dans une situation dangereuse. Nous n’avons aucune autre marge de manœuvre à ce jour. À  partir du 1er janvier 2012, nous allons devoir faire face à un autre problème, avec un déficit prévu de 143 millions de  dollars, correspondant à une perte de contribution à notre budget de 22 %. Et le solde de notre Fonds de roulement à ce  moment-là sera nul. Il nous faudra prendre des mesures radicales. J’y vois l’occasion de consolider nos efforts de  réforme et je suis totalement disposée à réviser l’ensemble de notre action, nos modalités de fonctionnement, nos  structures s’il le faut, et je vous demande de me soutenir à cet égard. Je me voue entièrement à profiter de cette  situation pour diminuer les coûts administratifs et prioriser nos programmations.  (La Directrice générale poursuit en anglais)
12.3 So, ladies and gentlemen, I have come here with a series of proposals for your support and our immediate  action which I have already broached with many of you since last week during bilateral and regional group consultations.
12.4 These same proposals will be defined in the document that will be submitted to you in the next few minutes. The  first and most important measure I propose as an immediate, urgent solution is to secure a temporary increase of our  Working Capital Fund for the years 2012-2013. I would propose the Working Capital Fund be increased to 10% of the  global budget ceiling shared proportionately among the Member States, that is to say, $65 million instead of $30 million  today. This can be done through an additional assessment to Member States or through voluntary advances that would  be reimbursed at a later stage. I am convinced this would be the most effective urgent response to address the  magnitude of our expected cash-flow deficit. I know that it is not a long-term solution but it will provide the Organization  with some breathing space to plan rationally within the new context.
12.5 I know that many of you who support this idea are subject to the constraints of your different administrative and  legislative processes, and I understand very well that we cannot make an immediate decision although I know that the  majority of you support this approach. That is why I would request that the General Conference take the decision to  delegate the authority to the Executive Board during its next spring session to raise the Working Capital Fund if the  Executive Board so decides.
12.6 Second, I have decided to launch an Special Emergency Multi-Donor Fund for UNESCO Priority Programmes  and Reform Initiatives. This Emergency Fund will be opened to multiple donors from Member States, public institutions,  foundations and individuals. Since 2 November, there has been an unprecedented outpouring of support for UNESCO  from individuals, associations and private corporations from all corners of the globe. Certainly, this is proof of the good  that UNESCO does. This expression of support from individual citizens is the most concrete indicator of success. We are  now working on the modalities of such an Emergency Fund. We are looking at all the legal and financial implications and  I want to see this Fund working in full transparency, with regard to the donors and all Member States. I want to see the  money flow into the Fund and the financial transactions of the Fund taking place in a credible, transparent manner and,  most importantly, I want to see the Fund working to contribute to the core priorities of the Organization. I do not see it as  another extrabudgetary fund, adding something extra to the core programme of this Organization because the lack of  resources from the budget is affecting our core programmes. We need to tackle the immediate necessity of delivering our  core programmes and activities.
12.7 Third, I wish to make an appeal to all governments to provide their assessed contributions as early as possible  in 2012. Some governments have already stated their readiness to do so. I would seek the support of all Member States  in this respect.
12.8 The fourth proposal I wish to make is to postpone the payment to Member States of resources available under  the current “incentive scheme to encourage prompt payment of contributions” until the 37th session of the General  Conference, and this is also reflected in the document that will be distributed to you for your examination.
12.9 So ladies and gentlemen, these are not decisions of choice in my view. These are decisions of urgency.  Unfortunately, I do not believe we can afford to wait or postpone these decisions. If we take these measures now, it will  give us time to consider long-term solutions, in a process of open and inclusive consultation. The full picture of the  situation is just becoming clear. I appreciate the support of every single Member State. I would welcome your ideas and I  thank you for all your goodwill in these difficult times. This is a new situation. I am not comparing this crisis to any that the  Organization has lived through in the past, because the conditions, the starting point, and the modalities are not the  same, but I do believe that we can pull together through these difficulties and in order to do that, we must act now. Thank  you, Madam President.
13. The President:   Thank you, Director-General. Your Excellencies, ladies and gentlemen, we are now talking about an urgent  document that will be an addendum to 36 C/37. I give the floor to the Secretary, please.
14. The Secretary:   Thank you, Madam President. The document is ready, at least in English and French, and will be available as  you leave this room on either side of the hall. Thank you.
15. The President:   Are there any comments or questions? Canada, the floor is yours.
16. Canada :   Merci, Madame la Présidente. Nous sommes surpris et déçus par cette demande et nous nous y opposons. Le  Canada refuse toute demande de contribution financière supplémentaire, qu’elle soit temporaire ou permanente. Comme  vous le savez, nous sommes chaque année, depuis plusieurs années, le premier ou le deuxième pays à s’acquitter de  sa contribution et nous continuerons ainsi. Notre pays profite du système des initiatives de paiement rapide et nous  sommes déçus qu’il soit retardé. Madame la Présidente, j’espère que demain nous aurons une discussion, voire un vote  sur cette question, et que chacun aura eu le temps de penser aux conséquences de ce qui s’est passé. Nous sommes  un acteur important et continuerons de l’être mais nous sommes contre cette démarche, contre cette demande. Merci.
17. The President:   Thank you very much. I would just like to say that this is a new addendum, which we will discuss it tomorrow, but  now I would like to give the floor to Germany, please.
18.1 Germany:   Thank you very much, Madam President and thank you, Madam Director-General for your explanations. I think  you are totally right to highlight the urgency and I do appreciate all the endeavours that went into trying to find, for all of  us, a way out of this very, very unfortunate situation at a moment when UNESCO is preparing for the future, is  modernizing, and is presenting a budget that concludes these reforms.
18.2 However, Germany is now the second largest donor country and we were so for the 20-year period during which  the United States of America was not a member of UNESCO. Unfortunately, my parliament is not very amused and,  upon instruction, I have to say that the zero nominal growth budget can only pass tomorrow, and I think it should, but  only on the understanding that we will try from the beginning to economize the 22% shortfall, as long as we do not have  the funds in another way, maybe by way of a trust fund or extrabudgetary payments. As to an increase in the Working  Capital Fund, it would be all right, I think, if it were taken from the regular contributions, but if 5.6% or 5.5% were to be  added to the contributions, this would require a decision from parliament, which at this point I am afraid I will not get.  Germany could not accept such an increase. I beg everybody to understand that, as we are the second largest donor, all  such decisions cannot simply be made by the Executive Board, but consultations with the donor countries are absolutely  necessary. Thank you very much for your attention.
19. The President:   Italy, please, the floor is yours.
20.1 Italy:   Thank you very much, Madam President. We obviously understand fully the moment we are going through and  we really appreciate the efforts that the Director-General and her team are making at this precise moment. However, I  think that upon consideration, we need really to go through the document before we can have a serious discussion on it.  I would consider it very preliminary at this point, so please consider my remarks as extremely preliminary, not having had  the opportunity to read the document yet. While I was familiar with and understand the issues raised under proposals 2,
3 and 4, that is the Special Emergency Multi-Donor Fund, whereby there could effectively be some fundraising achieved  by the Member States themselves, I understand also the need to pay contributions as early as possible on every  financial budget as well as to defer the payment on the incentive scheme. So this is technically something that has to be  studied.
20.2 I must, however, raise doubts on point 1 concerning an increase in the Working Capital Fund of such magnitude,  even if it is lower in comparison with other agencies. I think that for technical reasons, for a number of Member States,  this should be based only on voluntary advances, rather than additional assessment.  By deferring the matter to the  coming Executive Board we could gain some more time in order to have a better understanding of it at the spring session.  I think that an additional assessment would create substantial technical problems for a number of our Member States.  Thank you very much.
(22) Saudi Arabia (translation from the Arabic):   Excuse me. I was saying I wished to reiterate our thanks to the Director-General, Ms Bokova, for the efforts she has  exerted on behalf of the Organization in all its fields of endeavour. Naturally, it disturbs and saddens me, and it surely disturbs  many of us, that she should now be facing such difficulties in completing her work and initiatives in the service of the  Organization in all its fields of endeavour. It also disturbs and saddens us that she should be facing these difficulties merely  because she exerted such great efforts to preserve the freedom of this Organization. I do not propose to go into great detail  about where the responsibility lies for this problem confronting UNESCO; I will just say one thing: it is neither Palestine nor the  Arab States group, as it is sometimes put about. On the other hand, I had the honour to be invited to take part in a quartet of  influential countries, namely China, Brazil, France and Saudi Arabia, which met last week to discuss ways and means of  protecting this Organization and how to help it to deal with this problem. We also discussed how to help our colleague, the  Ambassador of the United States of America, to cope with the internal problem, which he, too, as he has demonstrated to us,
377  wishes to help to solve. We exchanged numerous ideas and then met Ms Bokova, and we naturally conveyed to her the desire  of the four countries that we represent to support UNESCO and not to leave it in the lurch. The support that we hope to give to  UNESCO is not only material support, despite my conviction that it needs funding now more than it needs anything else; it also  needs moral support, which should also come from other countries so that UNESCO should not be isolated among the other  international organizations. I conveyed this idea to the Ambassador of Palestine and we discussed it together with Ms Bokova.  For our part, we cannot promise anything now, but today I was in contact with the Saudi capital, and I can tell you that a  discussion is ongoing there about what Saudi Arabia can provide to help support and strengthen the Organization in order to  ensure that it continues and to support the moral stand that it took in the vote on Palestine. I just wished to provide a  clarification. We may expand this quartet, as we discussed yesterday with a number of countries. It is naturally open to all. And  we shall pursue our discussions with Ms Bokova in the coming days, God willing. Thank you very much.
23. The President:   Thank you. I would like to give the floor to the United Kingdom.
24.1 United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland:   Thank you, Madam President. I want to thank the Director-General for setting out her proposals, some of which  have put some of us in a difficult place, not because of the situation, but because we need to recognize that for some of  these aspects, UNESCO has not been in the situation that it needed to be in before any other decision was taken that  affected the financial stability of the Organization. I am speaking particularly about the Working Capital Fund. On  reflection, it was probably never enough to have a Working Capital Fund that would not last us long enough between the  day we knew we had an emergency and the day we could convene a meeting to do something about it. So the Working  Capital Fund in UNESCO is probably never enough. In many of our governments, this would be called a contingency  fund, which would be funded from the regular budget, so there are some balances that we need to think about there. I  would encourage you when this is being presented directly to governments to do two things: first, to do your very best to  add up the savings you are making, because it would be a principle for many governments that we are not replacing  somebody else’s commitment, so the clearer you can be about how much you have saved as you go along, the easier it  is to help in the interim with other things; and second, we must make sure that during these financial difficulties, we  remember that this is a golden opportunity to go further and faster and deeper with reforms. We should not use this as  any excuse to put off any part of what we were going to do. We were going to be more efficient. We were going to be  clearer about our results and resources. We were going to have pared-down operations to the most high-performing  minimum we can.
24.2 There is something you did not ask us for, Director-General, which I think we should try to give you, which is  greater flexibility on movements between the budget lines themselves. My understanding is that it is relatively limited in  terms of the ability to move resources between budget lines and in an emergency, that limitation may be too great. I think  that when we are reflecting on how to go forward we should be careful about over-specifying the level of budget and be  careful about giving you too little room to manoeuvre.
24.3 My final comment is that going forward, you should also ask us for something that you requested during the  independent external evaluation, to do our best to refrain from micro-managing. Because in all of this, you are going to  have to take difficult decisions and sometimes those decisions will affect programmes we cherish or sometimes they will  affect citizens of our country. And I promise you this, for my part, you will not find me coming knocking on your door  second-guessing your every move. We trust you to do this. We must give you the authority to do it and we hold you  accountable to for doing it. So please carry on, do your best and ask us for everything you need.
25. The President:   Thank you very much. Any other comments from the floor? France.
26.1 France :   Madame la Présidente, je voudrais à mon tour remercier la Directrice générale, car je crois qu’elle nous a  exposé aujourd’hui ce qu’est la situation dans laquelle nous sommes, une situation qui appelle des mesures d’urgence  courageuses. Le Secrétariat, nous le savons, étudie actuellement les solutions envisageables pour faire face à la  situation d’ici la fin de l’année – car nous ne parlons pas de la situation pour le prochain biennium mais de la situation  d’ici la fin de l’année : comment faire face au déficit de trésorerie qui se profile. Je pense que nous devons, pour faire  face à cette situation, envisager des mesures courageuses. Certes, comme l’indique le document qui vient de nous être  distribué, il faut parfois, pour certaines mesures plus complexes que d’autres, qui ont des conséquences directes pour  les États et leur niveau de contribution, s’accorder un peu de temps pour pouvoir y réfléchir et envisager très  sérieusement ces possibilités mais il existe des mesures aux effets beaucoup plus immédiats que nous pouvons prendre  bien plus rapidement.
26.2 Je voudrais insister pour ma part sur un point, et j’en terminerai par là, à savoir la marge de manœuvre qu’il faut  accorder, me semble-t-il, dans ces circonstances tout à fait exceptionnelles, à la Directrice générale. Dans n’importe  lequel de nos pays, en cas de difficultés financières, les dirigeants disposent d’une marge de manœuvre accrue. Je crois  que ce devrait être la même chose pour une organisation multilatérale. Lorsque des circonstances imprévues et difficiles  se profilent, il faut que nous accordions un mandat de confiance à notre Directrice générale pour appliquer les décisions  qui sont absolument nécessaires pour l’Organisation elle-même. Il peut s’agir du niveau de transfert de fonds – je vois  que la décision qui nous est proposée le prévoit – mais il existe sans doute d’autres mesures. Je crois que, plus que  jamais, nous devons aujourd’hui éviter de tomber dans le péril de la microgestion. Il en va de l’intérêt même de notre  Organisation. Merci.
27. The President:   Thank you very much. I give the floor to the Russian Federation.
(28.1) Ms Mitrofanova (Russian Federation), Chair of the Executive Board (translation from the Russian):   Thank you very much, I just see that none of my colleagues from the Ministry are here. Please allow me then to  speak on behalf of the Russian Federation. It is of course most regrettable that the Organization finds itself in this situation,  and that a few countries here have directly linked a wholly democratic voting procedure on the issue of the admission of  Palestine to a funding refusal.
(28.2) We expect that this will somehow be reviewed. Nevertheless, now, we really need, as a matter of urgency, to settle  the question of how to proceed. It seems to me that on the basis of all that has been proposed by the Director-General, there  are at least two things that, quite obviously, countries can do without particular trouble, maybe, other than for those that are in  a difficult economic situation: first, they can try as rapidly as possible to pay their contributions at the beginning of the year,  and secondly, they can agree to defer to the next session of the General Conference the incentive scheme regarding the  payment of contributions.
(28.3) I agree with those who have said that the Director-General should be given greater authority so that she can steer  this ship at the least without greater losses. We have all survived crises. I think that we will get through this crisis too.  Nevertheless, the Director-General has the opportunity to conduct genuine and very serious reform of the Organization itself,  after really reducing administrative expenditure and concentrating resources on the remaining areas of activity. This  opportunity is now more real than ever.
(28.4) And, naturally, we must give the Director-General the possibility and, it would seem, suspend the provisions requiring  that the Executive Board agree on the transfer of resources and that the General Conference be informed, and give her  broader authority to move these resources around. I am, of course, in favour of entrusting the possibility and delegating to the  Executive Board the right to take decisions on other proposals, such as the Emergency Fund and in relation to increasing  working capital. Thank you very much.
29. The President:   Thank you very much. I would like to give the floor to Mali.
30.1 Mali :   Merci, Madame la Présidente. Le Mali voudrait s’associer à la France et à la Russie pour, d’abord, féliciter  Mme la Directrice générale pour le courage et la réactivité dont elle a fait preuve dans une situation certes difficile pour  notre Institution mais qui résulte d’un processus démocratique de vote dont les conséquences doivent être assumées  par l’ensemble des États membres de cette vénérable Institution. Dans ce contexte, le Mali estime que nous devrions  accorder une importante marge de manœuvre à Mme la Directrice générale et il soutient effectivement l’idée de déléguer  au Conseil exécutif la possibilité de prendre des décisions en ce qui concerne le Fonds de roulement.
30.2 Pour notre part, en ce qui concerne notre contribution, quelles que soient les difficultés dans lesquelles nous  nous trouvons, nous pouvons vous assurer que nous rendrons compte de la situation à notre capitale pour prendre les  dispositions nécessaires afin que le Mali puisse être parmi les pays qui manifesteront leur volonté de contribuer à la  solution de la situation que traverse – temporairement, nous en sommes convaincus – notre vénérable Institution.  спасибо большое.
31. The President:   Thank you very much. I would like to give the floor to Spain.
(32) Spain (translation from the Spanish):   My Government would like to give the Director-General a vote of confidence for her management at this time of  administrative and budgetary crisis. However, my authorities do not have enough political scope or parliamentary authorization  for any kind of measure that would imply an increase in our regular contributions to this Organization. Then again, as we are  aware of the problem and would like to help the survival of this Organization wherever possible, we will give top priority to the  specific cases in programmes that are identified as urgent priorities so that we can cooperate within UNESCO’s provisions for  the Spain-UNESCO Trust Fund. Thank you very much.
(34) Qatar (translation from the Arabic):   Thank you Madam President. To begin with, we should like to thank the Director-General for her clear report and  wish her every success in this difficult period in the history of the Organization. We do not wish to go into detail, but we are  eagerly looking forward to tomorrow’s debate. I should merely like to congratulate my friend and colleague, the Ambassador of  Saudi Arabia, on his initiative, in consultation with certain other Member States; we hope that this group will be expanded. I  would also like to say that this is not Irina Bokova’s Organization; it is the Organization of all of us, of all the Member States.  No doubt cooperation among all of us will help to find the appropriate solutions. Thank you.
35. The President:   Thank you very much. Now I give the floor to South Africa.
36. South Africa:   Thank you very much, Madam President. I would also like to signal our support to the Director-General for the  efforts that she is making and maybe tomorrow, when we present this, we should present the easy matters first and get  approval for those and leave the difficult ones to the end. I wanted to focus a little bit, however, on the issue of reducing  the budget, because I think it is an important matter that we have not even talked about. I hope that all Member States  understand why it is important that we do not reduce the budget. Even though the United States of America has  withdrawn, the amount due stays to their account, I understand. So, if you reduce the budget, it has implications down  the line. It is important to flag this early on in the discussion. Thank you very much.
37. The President:   Thank you very much. Now I give the floor to the Netherlands. Thank you very much.
38. Netherlands:   Thank you, Madam President. With every respect and appreciation for the position that the Director-General  finds herself in and the efforts that she is undertaking to overcome the “non-crisis”, as we are supposed to call it, I would  like to say that we feel that we are now pre-empting on developments that we are at least still waiting for. We have been  promised more detailed information about the financial position that UNESCO is facing. We have been told that we would  be given information about possibilities for reducing expenditure. Before receiving that, however, we have been  presented with a proposal to increase the working capital. In my opinion, that is not in the right order. In addition to that, I  would like to associate myself with what was said earlier by the Ambassadors of Canada and the United Kingdom. Thank  you.
39. The President:   Thank you very much. I give the floor to Sri Lanka.
40.1 Sri Lanka:   Thank you, Madam President. Ernest Hemingway used a phrase that became quite famous and to me, the  conduct of the Director-General in recent weeks has exemplified that phrase: “Grace under pressure”. For that, I  congratulate her, but even more, I thank her on behalf of Sri Lanka.
40.2 By applauding, we must assist her to stay the course of the principle that she has outlined in her perspectives,  which she shared with us recently, including in her letters. You may read between the lines of what I am going to say  now. I think we should learn a lesson from the best and worst experiences of States when faced with budgetary crises,  with crunch times.
40.3 We have one approach, which many of our countries have gone through, and that is of slash and burn, where  you engage in contraction and ditch socially important programmes and open yourself up to a fire sale  of assets and you  open yourself up to rampant privatization. This is the new liberal model, which is being discredited in many parts of the  world, not least in Latin America.
40.4 That is one response to a budgetary crisis. And that I believe is a kind of response that we must avoid. I am not  saying that anybody is contemplating that. I just want to signal the dangers of that kind of approach.
40.5 Another approach is to pretend there is no problem and to keep whistling in the dark, hoping that somehow the  domestic politics of certain States will unravel or unfold in such a way that enlightened self-interest comes back to the  forefront. I would not bet my last dollar on that. We should not whistle in the dark either and hope to roll back some of  these things simply by reasoned argument. That might not work. So we cannot pretend that nothing bad is happening or  is going to happen. That will not help, because then we will face a shipwreck.
40.6 The third approach, which has worked globally is one in which a budgetary crisis is met with broad and deep  consultation with all stakeholders and when there is consensus underpinning the reforms that are necessary, where the  socially most important programmes are protected, where the reforms reflect the real balance of social and economic  forces, where the interest of the most vulnerable are put at the forefront, the human-centric approach. I think that in  dealing with the looming fiscal crisis of UNESCO, our response must be informed by the very values that we stand for  and we preach. There cannot be purely budgetary response to a budgetary crisis. It has to be a response informed by  UNESCO’s guiding ethics. Thank you.
(42) Yemen (translation from the Arabic):   Thank you, Madam President. I would just like to recall an article by the Director-General entitled “Don’t punish  UNESCO”. UNESCO has really been punished for the ethical and democratic stand it has taken. We really need to take a  stand alongside this wonderful woman who represents us and represents UNESCO. This is truly a collective punishment, no  matter whether the decision for it was taken consciously or unconsciously. We urge the United States of America to reconsider  this matter, for it is a State which enjoys great standing in the hearts of all of us, and which is considered to be a model of  democracy. I do not say this haphazardly; we in Yemen, one of the 50 poorest countries in the world, hold this great country in  great respect and appreciation. This doorway is closed, and I now open a second one: how can we address this issue? I  believe there are three possible courses of action: the first involves the rich countries, which are dear to our hearts, and are  present here among us; they were foremost in taking this courageous decision, and we need to seek their support and  assistance, including the quartet which is requesting additional support from other well-known countries among us. The  second course of action consists in ensuring that Member States pay their assessed contributions rapidly. God willing, I shall  urge my own country, despite the fact that it is among the 50 poorest countries in the world, to pay its contribution out of  devotion to this Organization and its values and ethics. The third course of action is a dangerous one, because it concerns the  current rationalization of expenditure or budgetary reductions. I believe that budgetary reductions are meaningless; on the  other hand, there is the rationalization of expenditure proposed by the Director-General and her admirable team. The Director- General and her team have proposed many things, which were put to discussion during the meeting of the Arab States group.  I find this commendable. However, the idea of reductions and taking steps backwards are measures which we should not give  in to. This is an emergency, which should be dealt with properly. Do not be afraid; we are with you. We shall forge ahead with  the blessings of God. Thank you very much.
43. The President:   Thank you very much. I give the floor to Turkey.
44. Turkey:   Madam President, I can confirm that the Turkish Government will give very careful consideration to the Director- General’s proposals. My delegation is of the opinion that it is time to act responsibly, not only for the sake of UNESCO,  but for the common interest of the international community and the future of the multilateral system of which we are all a  part. Thank you.
45. The President:   Thank you very much, Excellencies. Are there any other colleague who would like to take the floor? I would like  to give the floor Peru, please.
(46) Peru (translation from the Spanish):    Thank you, madam President. On behalf of Peru, I would like to congratulate the Director-General for the efforts she  is making to overcome this crisis. You have the confidence of many States and many citizens of the world, who rely on you  receiving special authority to resolve this crisis. Moreover, I hope that the Member States can reach an agreement over the  meaning of the decision that we are reaching and that a punishment of this kind loses meaning as history progresses and  shows the effectiveness of the decision that we have made. Thank you.
47. The President:   Thank you very much. I give the floor to Germany.
48. Germany:   Thank you very much, and I apologize for taking the floor again, but I think there were some constructive  proposals in the room, which I would like to emphasize. First, it was said that we should not give up hope, that the United  States of America can solve this problem and I think everybody in this room knows that the American President as well  as our colleague, Mr Killion, the American Ambassador, would like this problem to be solved as soon as possible. So it is  not considered a punishment, but it may turn out to be one involuntarily at this time. The second problem is how we can  overcome the situation and allow our Director-General to implement the reforms she wishes to, and keep the  Organization in its very important multilateral place. There are democratic systems that are, on financial matters, more  open and more meticulous and I think that if I hear in this room that there are countries that would be in a position to put  money into UNESCO instead of putting it in the bank, thereby putting it into the future of this Organization and of all of us  and our work and the programmes that we have worked on jointly, they would do everybody a very big favour and they  would be very much appreciated. I have some hope that this may help us all and would be considered by all of us,  including the United States of America, as helping all of us. Thank you.
49. The President:   Thank you very much, Your Excellency. I give the floor to Denmark.
50. Denmark:   Thank you, Madam President. We have of course to look at the proposals and come back to them tomorrow and  later on. However, Denmark, in principle, fully supports the rapid and responsible efforts just expressed by the Director- General. Thank you.
51. The President:   Thank you very much. Now I would like to give the floor to the Director-General.
52.1 The Director-General:   Thank you very much, Madam President. Let me first thank all the delegations that participated in this debate  and let me immediately thank those who said that this Organization does not belong to me. I really needed this debate  because there are difficult decisions to be taken and there is a lot of need for support, including the political and moral  support that some of you have mentioned, but there is also a need to look at the Organization’s financial situation and  most importantly, the way forward.
52.2 Let me just say why I believe that it is important to maintain the current budget of the Organization. First, I think it  is important because we should not prejudge any future decision on the part of our biggest donor, and any other decision  on lowering the ceiling of this current budget would immediately also envisage once again 22%, which will not be  received by this Organization. This means that if we change the current ceiling of the budget, we will end up with a deficit  not only of 22% next year but of 44%. It means cutting by half the current budget of the Organization. I therefore believe  that it is absolutely crucial, from that perspective, that we adopt the current budget as it is.
52.3 Second, the other argument, which I mentioned earlier, is that such a budget is the result of a long process of  consultation, work, and a very fine balance between the different parts of the budget, which have been through  discussions within the Executive Board and then of course here in the commissions and the General Conference. So I do  believe that it is very important that we keep the current budget as it is.
52.4 I will do everything possible in order to continue with the reforms, cut the current administrative expenditures and  move funding to programmes. I can say now, with the full responsibility of the position that I am taking, that I will not  overlook a single part of our budget and of our current activities from the point of view of savings, which belong to the  core priorities of this Organization. I know that in order to gain your trust, I have the responsibility, as some of you have  said, of revising our programmes by the end of this year. Some of you asked how I could possibly ask you for additional  financial support without making an effort in terms of savings. Let me say that we intend to save $35 million by the end of  this year owing to the very severe cash-flow problem and then we will look, with all the seriousness of the situation, at  future reforms and savings, which I intend to report on in January, when I believe that we will have an information  meeting with the Executive Board. By that time, I will have a much clearer picture of what is at stake and what kind of  measures I will propose to you.
52.5 Unfortunately, we do not have International Monetary Fund (IMF) support, unlike countries that find themselves  in similar situations. We only have the $30 million Working Capital Fund currently at our disposal in order to cushion the  situation and shore us up until the end of December. What we do have is the possibility of generating savings and we will  do everything possible in order to save $35 million, hopefully, and then we will use our Working Capital Fund.
52.7 This means that we will start the New Year from zero. The idea of inviting you to discuss the matter of increasing  the ceiling of the Working Capital Fund is proposed, for the time being, on an entirely voluntary basis. Let me emphasize  that this is on a totally voluntary basis, because we do understand the complexities of your domestic administrative and  legislative processes, as well as the financial constraints and difficulties faced by some of your countries. My proposal is  thus to appeal to those countries that might consider it possible to contribute to increasing the Working Capital Fund,  which will continue to be your money. We will take this up in two years’ time, in 2013, so that you may make the definitive  decision on what to do with this Working Capital Fund.
52.8 In the meantime, should you consider that we could entrust the Executive Board with taking up this matter it  does not mean that such a decision will be taken. For the time being, we are talking only about voluntary contributions  that some of your countries might consider possible, which would be a help to us by providing a little more leeway in the  form of cash.
52.9 At the same time, I would like to thank very warmly those countries which have already approached us and  expressed such willingness. In particular I would like to thank once again the distinguished representative of Yemen  because I know how difficult it is for his country to make this gesture and commitment to UNESCO. Many others of you  have also said that they will communicate this request to their governments.
52.10 So, in response to those who were asking what we are doing now, I will pledge that we will save $35 million by  the end of the year, with the full appreciation of continuing the commitments and very important core activities that are  under way, and revisiting all other spending. This is also the only way I see the situation as of now.
52.11 I also thank all those who have offered to give me more leeway, more freedom to take certain decisions and  action. I know that in the current draft appropriation resolution there is the possibility, if I am not wrong, of providing  leeway, of flexibility in taking decisions within the different sectors. Should the Member States decide to give me more  responsibility I would of course take it up and I reassure you that it will be a very transparent process. I would like to  thank you also for your commitment to not micro-manage. Sometimes I will have to take difficult decisions that will  require your support. I see this as a very interactive process, involving mutual trust. I know that in order to earn your trust,  I have to show you that I am serious about what I am saying now. I have to show you that we can go forward with the  important core priorities of the Organization with the full responsibility of all UNESCO staff. I am in constant contact with  the staff associations. I am meeting the staff associations on Monday. It is a matter of informing you as well as mobilizing  the staff. I have already received the written commitment of the staff associations concerning the proposal that I am  making and all the different actions.
52.12 I see two sets of problems. The first is the immediate cash-flow problem. We are tackling this immediate set of  problems. The second concerns the future. I know that we have savings to make. We will change our work methods next  year. I intend to change the way we prepare our work plans in the Organization. The usual way of working is by adopting  an annual work plan, approved by me. We will now move to shorter-term work plans, carefully revisiting the content of  the work plans well in advance, cutting back and taking into account the deficit that will be incurred. Of course, this will be  accompanied by all the measures that were mentioned in terms of savings. It does not mean that I will decrease the  programmatic activities by 20%. It should be against the background of very serious measures in terms of administrative  costs. I have discussed this already with the President of the General Conference and the Chair of the Executive Board. I  would like to pay tribute once again to Ms Mitrofanova as Chair of the Executive Board for following the difficult reform  process and suggesting very bold proposals for savings. I would like to thank her once again and to thank the working  group established under her, following the External Evaluation Report. Of the 86 measures that we have adopted jointly  with you, there are so many valid points to make this Organization more efficient.
52.13 However, under these circumstances, this is not enough. We have to move and we have to make bolder  decisions. I think as an imminent decision, we have to go digital. We have to look at the expenditure that we incur by  printing documents and publications. I can enumerate right now a number of proposals that I think can make savings in  terms of publications and otherwise. Here, I will need your support in order to create this atmosphere of trust and to  change our way of doing business in the Organization. There are a number of other issues, but I think this is the most  visible, the most obvious one.
52.14 I would like to thank the distinguished Ambassador of Sri Lanka, as I was touched by the way you made your  presentation, outlining the three options. I would go for the third option, of course, because I think that this is the only way  forward. We need broad consultations, but we should protect our socially important programmes and the most vulnerable.  I think we should make every possible effort to avoid the opposite scenario. That is why I believe we should focus on our  core activities, concentrating on those countries in the greatest difficulty and that most benefit from our programmes, and  on those activities that make the value added of this Organization. We must also work better with the other United  Nations agencies. We must concentrate better on our programmatic activities with a longer-term impact.
52.15 Of course, this cannot be done overnight. All this needs time. But I must say that we have already started this  process. This is not something new. We have to accelerate some of the decisions that we plan to take and that we must  take. This also concerns those countries that might consider supporting us with extrabudgetary resources and  contributions to the Emergency Fund that we want to create. I wish to reassure them that everything that they could  possibly contribute to the Organization will go once again to these core priorities. It is extremely important that we all  know that every single contribution that you might wish to contribute will be done so in full transparency and in full  consultation, not only with the donors, but also with all the Member States, because it is a common problem that we have  now. These contributions will go to the core priorities of the Organization, because we will, of course, make an enormous  effort to cut administrative costs. It is not possible, however, to substitute or cover the full 22% shortfall in funds to the
383  Organization. I do not want to be in a situation that will impact some of our core programmes. We must also make better  use of extrabudgetary resources.
52.16 I would also ask those countries that have extrabudgetary trust funds with us to try to consult with each other  and see whether part of the funding that is here in the Organization may be redirected and moved from the  extrabudgetary activities to some of our core programmes in order to save the Organization’s core priorities and  programmes. I appeal to every single Member State of UNESCO that considers it possible, because of their stable  financial and economic situation and their engagement with UNESCO, to come out in support of the Organization. I  would not only thank them but I would ask them to do this in consultation with us and with other Member States. I was  particularly touched and appreciative of the joint initiative by the Ambassadors of Saudi Arabia, Brazil, France and China  – followed later by the Ambassador of Russia, who also informed me that she would like to join this group but could not  at this particular moment – expressing very strong support to the Organization and looking at the possible outcomes of  this complicated financial situation. I believe it’s a time to reunite. I believe that it is not a time to accuse each other, it is  not a time to pass judgement. It is a time when we can unite forces to overcome this difficult situation. That is why I have  said that it is not a crisis but a difficult situation. I hope that the difficulties we face are temporary for the Organization and  that together we can overcome them.
52.17 I know that sometimes as I say we have to take imminent decisions, and we have to take decisions that are  longer-term decisions, which will affect the 2012-2013 budget. I immediately invite any other type of suggestion or  proposal that you might have in order to solve the problem of the Organization. It may be focusing in some other way  more on our priority programmes. We will need support and dialogue with you. I would like to thank in particular those  countries, such as Qatar, that have already informed their governments and are considering supporting the Organization.  I know that there are other countries with the same approach. UNESCO works for the public good and for the good of  humanity, which is important in these difficult times. I know that even some of those countries who have declared now  that their financial constraints prevent them from providing additional funding are big supporters of UNESCO and  important contributors to the regular budget, such as Italy and Canada. Some countries are supporting with very strong  extrabudgetary resources, such as Italy, which is the biggest extrabudgetary donor and others, such as Germany, are  also big contributors to the regular budget. I know that you have constraints at home, too, but I think that by continuing to  support the Organization, including by looking at current extrabudgetary funding, like Spain, I believe that we can find a  way, with a combination of factors.
52.18 Let me just mention that I do not see only one single decision that will help us in these turbulent times, not that  of postponing the incentive scheme decision until 2013, or increasing the Working Capital Fund, or attracting further  extrabudgetary resources, or decreasing administrative costs or implementing internal reforms in the Organization. I  believe the solution is in the complexity of all these measures, and we can find the right balance of having a budget that  will be with a deficit, but a budget that will still deliver the core programmes of this Organization. We need a combination  of budgetary contributions, extrabudgetary resources and, of course, the support of wider partners of this Organization  that have already come to us and pledged their support.
52.19 Before I end, I would like to say one last thing. I must say that even nowadays, in these difficult times, we  receive here at the Secretariat – and I am sure that you are also receiving hundreds of messages from citizens in this  world – a number of cheques with messages such as “I want to donate 100 dollars to UNESCO because I believe in  UNESCO”, “I want to support UNESCO”. This is a very encouraging sign that we are on the right track to strengthening  this Organization and moving forward during these turbulent times. So once again, thank you for every single opinion that  you have expressed. Thank you for your trust. Thank you for the responsibility that you entrust in me and in the senior  management team. Thank you for all your valuable proposals. I thank every single delegation, including delegations that  cannot contribute financially in these difficult times, but which are supporting what we are doing. All of this is very much  appreciated. Thank you very much.  (Applause)
53. The President:   Thank you very much, Madam Director-General. I would immediately propose setting up a fundraising concert  series in this hall, because I am sure that we can provide beautiful artists and invite people who would appreciate it – we  just have to be creative in all kind of ways. Now I would like to inform you that the addendum to document 36 C/37 is  available; please read it, and we will consider the proposal tomorrow afternoon. Ladies and gentlemen, we have thus  finished our work for this evening and we will meet again tomorrow morning. Since we have a full day tomorrow, I should  kindly ask you to be punctual tomorrow morning, because it will be a long day. We have a lot to do, so tomorrow, at 10  o’clock sharp, we would like to continue our work. This meeting is now adjourned. Thank you very much.  The meeting rose at 5.30 p.m.  La séance est levée à 17 h 30  Se levanta la sesión a las 17.30  Заседание закрывается в 17.30  مساه ٥,٣٠ الساعة يف اسلسة رفعت   会议于 17 时 30 分结束