280  Condolences to the people and the Government of the Philippines following Typhoon Haiyan  Condoléances au peuple et au Gouvernement des Philippines suite au typhon Haiyan   Condolencias al pueblo y al Gobierno de Filipinas tras el tifón Haiyan   Выражение соболезнования народу и правительству Филиппин по случаю тайфуна Хайян   إعصار هايان إثر وحكومتها شعب الفلبين تعزية    向遭受台风“海燕”重创的菲律宾人民和政府表示同情
(1) The President (translation from the Chinese):    Ladies and gentlemen, good morning. Before we start the plenary meeting today, on behalf of UNESCO I would like  to extend my condolences to the Philippines and the other countries and regions affected by Typhoon Haiyan and to express  my condolences to nearly 10,000 victims and their families. UNESCO is ready to undertake all efforts in its fields of  competence to help and support the Philippines and the other countries and regions in the relief and post-disaster work. Now I  would like to invite you to stand to observe one minute of silence. Thank you. Please take your seats.  The Assembly observed one minute’s silence in tribute to the victims of Typhoon Haiyan in the Philippines.  General policy debate (continued)  Débat de politique générale (suite)  Debate de política general (continuación)  Обсуждение вопросов общей политики (продолжение)  جتابع)مناقشة السياسة العامة    总政策辩论（续）
2. The President:   Ladies and gentlemen, I declare open the tenth plenary meeting of the General Conference. The first part of this  morning’s meeting will be dedicated to the national statements, and towards the end, we will welcome His Excellency,  the President of Chad. Since we have a long list of eminent speakers, I suggest we proceed with the national statements  immediately. I wish to remind respected delegates that each statement will be limited to six minutes, with the exception of  statements by representatives of non-governmental and intergovernmental organizations, who will have three minutes to  address the General Conference. I now have the honour to call on our first speaker for this morning, His Excellency, Mr  Edward Nalbandian, Minister of Foreign Affairs of the Republic of Armenia.
3.1 M. Nalbandian (Arménie) :   Monsieur le Président, Madame la Directrice générale, Mesdames et Messieurs, je voudrais tout d’abord  m’associer aux orateurs précédents pour féliciter M. Hao Ping pour son élection à la présidence de la 37e session de la  Conférence générale de l’UNESCO et adresser nos remerciements au Président sortant, Mme Katalin Bogyay.
3.2 L’année dernière, l’Arménie a célébré le 20e anniversaire de son adhésion à l’UNESCO. Depuis lors, elle ne  cesse de s’engager davantage dans les activités et programmes de l’Organisation, promouvant ainsi ses principes et ses  valeurs.   (The speaker continues in English)
3.3 Mr President, the past year was memorable for Armenia as Yerevan became the twelfth World Book Capital.  Throughout the year Yerevan was a meeting place for several well-known writers, journalists, publishers, librarians and  book lovers from all over the world. This significant event coincided with another major celebration – the 500th  anniversary of Armenian book printing. Armenians were among the first people in the world to make use of Gutenberg’s  invention and starting from 1512 founded Armenian printing houses around the world. The first Armenian book was  printed in Venice in 1512, and the first Armenian printed magazine in Madras in 1794. The year-long events presenting  Armenia’s rich cultural heritage to the world were truly “crowned” by the inscription of the over 1,000-year-old Armenian  epic “David of Sassoun” on the Representative List of the Intangible Cultural Heritage of Humanity. The celebrations of  the 300th anniversary of the great Armenian poet and musician Sayat-Nova were included in the UNESCO list of  anniversaries for 2012-2013. Sayat-Nova made a considerable contribution not only to the Armenian people, but also to  the cultural heritage of our region. The inscription of Aram Khachaturian’s compositions on the Memory of the World  Register this June was a wonderful tribute to the composer’s legacy on the occasion of the 110th anniversary of his birth  in 2013.
3.4 Mr President, we highly appreciate UNESCO’s role in promoting intercultural dialogue, understanding and  tolerance in the world. Since last May, Armenia has assumed the chairmanship of the Committee of Ministers of the  Council of Europe, making the fight against xenophobia, hate speech and intolerance its key priorities. In an era when  the protection and promotion of human rights is considered to be the underpinning concept of a civilized world,  intolerance towards the values of civilization belonging to others and the intentional, consistent or repeated damage or  destruction of cultural or religious heritage, must be condemned with the same resolve and determination as violence  against people. The destruction by Azerbaijanis in Nakhichevan of thousands of delicately-carved cross stones created
281  by the Armenian masters, dating from the ninth to the sixteenth centuries, is a vivid manifestation of such crimes. Several  thousands of these giant medieval sculptures were bulldozed under the Azerbaijani Government’s watchful eye and the  area was turned into a military ground in a government-sanctioned operation. The International Council on Monuments  and Sites (ICOMOS) 16th General Assembly resolution regretfully stated with regard to this vandalism: “This heritage  that once enjoyed its worthy place among the treasures of the world’s heritage can no longer be transmitted today to  future generations”. Our numerous calls for sending international fact-finding missions to Nakhichevan, as well as  attempts by a number of international organizations and countries, have been either ignored or rejected by the  Azerbaijani side.
3.5 Mr President, the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and the UNESCO Convention against Discrimination in  Education state that “education shall promote understanding, tolerance and friendship among all nations, racial or  religious groups”. Taking into consideration UNESCO’s unique role in the sphere of education, we call upon the  Organization to create within its educational programmes an overview mechanism that will examine and evaluate the  textbooks of Member States, especially those dealing with history and social sciences, with special emphasis on the  elimination of racism and xenophobia. Armenian heritage, culture and history, after lasting continuously for more than 30  centuries, are nowadays being distorted and altered in Azerbaijan. In this country the rewriting of its history is continued  through the misappropriation or annihilation of the traces of other cultures on its territory, or more frequently by  privatizing the cultural heritage of the neighbouring nations. A country that appeared on the political world map less than
100 years ago has territorial and cultural claims over a country and a people whose several millennia of history is  documented in records which date back to ancient times.
3.6 Mr President, only through coordinated efforts can the international community pursue the ideals of peace and  humanity through education, science and sustainable development, intercultural and interreligious dialogue. Armenia is  strongly committed to the ideals and goals of UNESCO and will continue expanding its involvement in UNESCO  initiatives and programmes. Thank you.
(5.1) Mr Malki (Palestine) (translation from Arabic):   Mr Hao Ping, President of the General Conference, Ms Irina Bokova, Director-General, Ms Alissandra Cummins,  Chair of the Executive Board, Excellencies, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to begin by offering my sincere condolences to  the people and Government of the Philippines for the natural disaster which has recently befallen them and to express  solidarity and commiseration from Palestine. I would like to extend gratitude to Ms Katalin Bogyay, President of the 36th  session of the General Conference. Furthermore, I offer congratulations to Mr Hao Ping on his election as President of the
37th session and wish him every success in his noble task. At the same time, permit me to express to Ms Bokova our sincere  appreciation for her distinguished leadership of UNESCO and I extend sincere congratulations on her nomination for Director- General for a second term. In this regard, I would like to draw attention to her clear-sighted vision for the role of UNESCO in  stimulating collective awareness of human values, civil rights, human dignity and consolidating the certainty that the fate of  humanity is a matter for everyone, not only the powerful.
(5.2) Mr President, distinguished gathering, it is a great honour to stand here before you with my country’s delegation –  the delegation of Palestine – sitting in its natural place among the nations, following Palestine’s admission as a full member of  this august organization. On this occasion, it is a pleasure for me to convey to you the greetings of President Mahmoud Abbas  and of the Palestinian leadership and people, and to reaffirm before you our great appreciation of UNESCO and our  commitment to its lofty goals, which embody humanity’s aspirations to a world in which peace and cooperation between all  humanity prevail. This is particularly so as the Palestinian people has been suffering under Israeli occupation for 46 years,  during which the rights of our people have been violated and they have been denied the right of self-determination, in addition  to other cultural, social and economic rights.
(5.3) The Israeli occupation builds illegal settlements on Palestinian land and accords protection to settlers, who engage in  practices and abuses that are a violation of international law, including the destruction and looting of property, the uprooting of  trees – even 3,000-year old Palestinian olive trees – the theft of antiquities, the looting of cultural artefacts and the falsification  of history and the region’s historical reality by continuing its illegal excavations in the Old City of Jerusalem and elsewhere on  occupied Palestinian land, including East Jerusalem. Nevertheless, the Palestinian people are a people who love life and will  continue to defend the principles of liberty, justice and beauty. As the great Palestinian poet, Mahmoud Darwish, said:  We  steal a thread from the silkworm and fence in this departure; we open the garden door to let the jasmine out upon the roads as  a beautiful day; we love life, if only we can find a way to it.
(5.4) Mr President, we value the role and constructive goals of UNESCO and are committed to the lofty goals of our  venerable Organization, which we consider part of our national goals. Furthermore, I would like to note UNESCO’s role in  preserving Palestinian culture and Palestinian heritage by the adoption of a series of decisions by the Executive Board and I  thank all States that voted for those decisions. We want to work with you to implement these resolutions on the ground,  especially with regard to the occupied Old City of Jerusalem, given the threat to the city’s heritage and history, and to protect  other heritage sites, cultural landscapes and Palestinian educational institutions. Additionally, the Palestinian school curriculum  is under threat from attempts to compel students in Jerusalem to study the Israeli curriculum, in clear violation of the rules of  international law concerning the obligations of the occupying power. We call for a UNESCO expert committee to be sent to  look into deliberate Israeli destruction on the ground in occupied Palestinian territory and follow up these incidents.
(5.5) Ladies and gentlemen, we are all aware that there can be no sustainable development in a world that does not  provide for the involvement of everyone in producing civilization, reaping its fruits and helping to extend them to all.  Furthermore, the changes which the world is experiencing require focus and concentration of effort in order to create practical  solutions to include people – all people – in the new civilization and empower them to invest in building a future starting from  today. As such, I announce in front of you today that the State of Palestine will resolutely support UNESCO’s efforts and  strategic priorities. We give voice to our conviction of the need to share knowledge and resources and look at how to include  vulnerable groups in education, communications, culture and science, in addition to the empowerment of women and the  rights of gender equality, freedom of the press and freedom of opinion. There can be no development while there is exclusion  and no sustainable development while there is marginalization. But, most importantly, there can be no development under  occupation.
(5.6) UNESCO has always accorded particular attention to Jerusalem’s archaeological and civilizational features and the  Organization has adopted a series of resolutions to safeguard and conserve the city’s cultural heritage. Jerusalem is the  heritage of Palestinians and of all humankind, not just followers of the three monotheistic religions. However, as international  experts have stated, this holy city is facing threats to its heritage, distinctive character and balance as a city and as a site  inscribed on the World Heritage List and List of World Heritage in Danger. Israel, the occupying power, and its settlers make
283  repeated intrusions into al-Aqṣà Mosque and attempt to divide the Temple Mount on the pretext of prayer. This may well result  in a religious conflict with disastrous results. As such, you will realize that its nomination to membership of the World Heritage  Committee represents a further indication that Palestine aspires to carry out its natural role and duties among the nations.  Furthermore, it sees in that a way of advancing the peace process and strengthening cooperation between all nations and  States. Our strategy for establishing peace is an unshakeable one, stemming from our deep belief that peace is in the interests  of all parties in the region. On this day – 11 November – the anniversary of the death of Yasser Arafat, Palestinian President  and Nobel Peace Prize laureate, we recall our duty and that of other States to support peace and bolster its foundations by  bringing about peace in the region. And the basis of this peace lies in ending Israeli occupation and giving concrete form to the  establishment of an independent Palestinian State with East Jerusalem as its capital. I salute and thank you. Peace upon you.
6. The President:   Thank you Your Excellency. Our next speaker is His Excellency, Mr Manuel Obregón, Minister of Culture and  Youth of Costa Rica.
(7.1) Mr Obregon (Costa Rica) (translation from the Spanish):   Mr. President of the General Conference of UNESCO, Madam Chair of the Executive Board of UNESCO, Madam  Director-General of UNESCO, ladies and gentlemen: I should like to speak to you this morning about the advances in cultural  human rights in Costa Rica.
(7.2) Since 2010, we have been working on the four main thrusts of the national culture plan in Costa Rica (cultural  democracy, identity, youth and international cooperation), and in 2011 we began constructing the Costa Rican Culture Satellite  Account, with international cooperation from Colombia and Spain, recently establishing the first culture satellite account in  Central America and the fifth in Latin America.
(7.3) The initial results are very encouraging: in 2012, with only three sectors measured, the contribution of the culture  sector to the Costa Rican economy represented an aggregate value of $627 million, which is equivalent to 1.4% of the  country’s GDP. To put these figures into perspective, in 2012 the combined contribution of the three cultural sectors equalled  that of traditional crops in our country such as bananas and coffee. Furthermore, more that 20,000 persons were employed in  the culture sector, without taking into account temporary or informal jobs, which makes the total much higher.
(7.4) These results are making it possible to move towards the goal, which we share with UNESCO, of broadening the  concept of culture beyond that of art and entertainment so that it can play a key role in the national development agenda.
(7.5) The Ministry of Culture and Youth, using methodologies that involve citizen participation, has submitted for approval  by the public the draft texts of the national cultural rights policy and the general law on cultural rights. As the consultation  broadened, it became clear that the majority of the requests received concerned citizens’ need for recognition of their rights in  the cultural sphere.
(7.6) At present, Costa Rica has no legislation for the protection of cultural rights, despite its ratification of various  international conventions. Legislators and policymakers have just gathered together the country’s scattered laws and  operational initiatives with regard to the protection and defence of cultural rights. Most of the problems diagnosed concern  flaws in the systems of protection or in the generation of mechanisms to ensure enforcement of those rights. Those flaws  include: unequal conditions of access, inclusion, participation and recognition of cultural diversity; lack of incentives for the  development of sustainable cultural and artistic endeavours; absence of vision and of comprehensive joint management of the  tangible and intangible cultural heritage; and, lastly, the dispersed and outdated structure of the culture sector. It is, therefore,  to meet all those challenges that, as I have just mentioned, public policy and legislation relating to culture has been proposed  in the form of a set of relevant initiatives designed to bring about the social change called for by public opinion.
(7.7) Culture is a basic aspect of humanity, a universal concept and a global public good; it gives rise to rights and  obligations for humanity as a whole. However, not every cultural expression is, by virtue of that fact alone, one that the State  must promote and protect:  we would never endorse cultural expressions that violate human rights.
(7.8) Cultural human rights have been recognized and the responsibility of the State to guarantee them, and of individuals  and communities to defend and demand them, has been established. As set forth in Article 27 of the Universal Declaration of  Human Rights: “Everyone has the right freely to participate in the cultural life of the community, to enjoy the arts and to share  in scientific advancement and its benefits.” According to the UNESCO Convention on the Protection and Promotion of the  Diversity of Cultural Expressions, “Cultural diversity can be protected and promoted only if human rights and fundamental  freedoms, such as freedom of expression, information and communication, as well as the ability of individuals to choose  cultural expressions, are guaranteed.”
(7.9) The promotion of cultural rights should be undertaken by States within a normative framework since culture carries  within it identities, values and meaning. The Government of Costa Rica is committed to reinforcing its national cultural rights  policy in order to bolster the confidence of its citizens, strengthen the legitimacy of its representatives and promote national  harmony and development. Our strategy is built on a rigorous process of public consultation. We do not impose anything; we  listen to what our country is asking us. Thank you.
8. The President:   Thank you Your Excellency. Our next speaker is His Excellency, Mr Nam-soo Seo, Minister of Education of the  Republic of Korea. Please, Your Excellency.
9.1 Mr Seo (Republic of Korea):   Honourable President, Director-General Ms Bokova and distinguished delegates, I am honoured to be here  representing the Republic of Korea. Let me first begin by thanking UNESCO for its efforts over the past 60 years in  building peace in the minds of men and women. Let me also commend the work of the Director-General Ms Bokova for  her remarkable leadership amid all the difficulties facing UNESCO today.
9.2 Distinguished delegates, the growth of a nation depends on its peoples’ abilities and attitudes fostered by  education. The Republic of Korea has undergone rapid economic development driven by education. Today, the Republic  of Korea is recognized worldwide for the key role education plays in the country. However, this would not have been  possible without the help of the international community. We still remember the school textbook factory, which UNESCO  built for us during the Korean War. l too studied with these textbooks.
9.3 The Republic of Korea is a model country that has changed from a recipient to a donor. Korea plans to give back  what it once received. In this regard, the Republic of Korea is carrying out Official Development Assistance (ODA) in  many fields, including education, health, and industry. One example is the UNESCO “Better Education for Africa’s Rise”  (BEAR) project that assists African nations in fostering talented youngsters through vocational education. We will  gradually increase our ODA budget and actively share our experience with developing countries.
9.4 Ladies and gentlemen, EFA, the global commitment to provide basic education for all, has expanded access to  education for even the poorest. Based on the progress made so far, the post-2015 education agenda should move  towards the goals of ensuring quality education and lifelong learning for all. The United Nations Secretary-General Ban  Ki-moon’s Global Education First Initiative provides significant impetus to promote the importance of education. Without  education, societies cannot develop, nor can societies maintain sustainable prosperity and ensure human dignity. The
285  Republic of Korea is honoured to host the 2015 World Education Forum in Incheon. The Forum will set the new post-
2015 paradigm for global education. We hope that this conference will become a milestone in upholding the universal  right to education. The Korean Government is committed to making the 2015 World Education Forum a global education  festival.
9.5 Distinguished participants, cultural universality brings the world together, and cultural diversity is a core value for  harmony. The Republic of Korea supports UNESCO’s efforts to seek culture-based development. We are making our  best efforts to foster creative industries in order to share them with the world. We will also contribute to enhancing the  importance of culture through a global agenda. We highly appreciate the World Heritage Convention which contributes to  sustainable development. We are committed to creating a culture of peace to conserve world heritage.
9.6 Distinguished delegates, let me now move on to science. As the Republic of Korea is surrounded by oceans, we  are looking into the values of oceans to ensure their sustainable development. Hence, we are supporting a range of  marine projects led by UNESCO. We also strongly believe that UNESCO’s Intergovernmental Oceanographic  Commission (IOC) will play a significant role in key issues such as climate change. Furthermore, as the host of the 7th  World Water Forum, the Republic of Korea has been participating in the International Hydrological Programme (IHP).  This shows the increasing leadership undertaken by the Republic of Korea in water-related issues. In May 2015, when  the World Education Forum opens, we will continue our journey toward education for the happiness of future generations.  I am looking forward to seeing all of you in Incheon, Republic of Korea. Thank you very much.
10. The President:   Thank you Your Excellency. Our next speaker is Her Excellency, Ms Makabelo Mosothoane, Minister of  Education and Training of Lesotho.
11.1 Ms Mosothoane (Lesotho):   Mr President of the General Conference, Chair of the Executive Board, Director-General of UNESCO,  honourable Ministers, distinguished delegates, ladies and gentlemen, it is with great honour and privilege that I seize this  opportunity to reiterate what the previous speakers have already expressed and to congratulate you, Mr President, on  your assumption of office as the leader of the 37th session of the General Conference. I am confident that you will steer  us to a successful outcome and we offer our full support. Furthermore, my delegation wishes to congratulate Ms Irina  Bokova for her nomination for a second term. We acknowledge her visionary leadership and determination to move  UNESCO forward and address the challenges which it faces.
11.2 Mr President, allow me to acknowledge and appreciate UNESCO’s focus on Africa through its Priority Africa  initiative. African countries are reaping the benefits manifested in UNESCO’s five fields of competence. We urge  UNESCO to ensure that, despite scarcity of resources and institutional restructuring, Priority Africa should continue to  receive the necessary funding for its major programmes. Mr President, education for all (EFA) is fundamental if we are to  achieve social, political and economic development. We wish to encourage individual countries and collective efforts  towards promoting EFA despite the numerous current challenges. Commitment to achieve this goal remains a priority of  the Government of Lesotho, where primary education is not only free but compulsory as well.
11.3 Mr President, early childhood care development (ECCD) has proved to be vital for laying a sound foundation for  education. In Lesotho the construction of ECCD, centred in the rural areas, is being achieved through a joint project with  the Republic of Korea under the banner of UNESCO. We thank them profoundly. Mr President, Lesotho supports the
2014-2021 Operational Strategy on Youth. It is our aim to mould young people intellectually and morally so that they are  ready to take their place in the world of work. We believe that technical and vocational education and training is the  answer to creating wealth and promoting the general well-being of societies. The coalition government is in the process  of reinvigorating the technical and vocational training system and invites support from the UNESCO family in institutional  capacity building.
11.4 Mr President, the ongoing project of promoting the use of ICTs in education is instrumental in improving the  quality of teaching and learning in teacher-training institutions. The provision of tablets to both lecturers and student  teachers increases interactive learning, thus breaking the barriers of distance and time, especially during teaching  practice and in the initial years of serving as qualified teachers. Most importantly it provides a good basis for action  research which contributes to the informed reform of education policy.
11.5 Mr President, on gender mainstreaming, Lesotho, as one of the two African countries selected under the  UNESCO-Varkey GEMS Foundation project, has benefited a great deal through promoting equitable access, completion  and better performance of boys and girls in primary and secondary schools. This, we hope, will be extended to the  national level. It is with pride that we announce that we have achieved gender parity at the primary education level.
11.6 Mr President, preservation and management of cultural heritage remains our priority. We are grateful to all the  support that was extended to us by Member States to inscribe Sehlabathebe National Park as part of the Maloti- Drakensburg Park transboundary world heritage site. This could not have been achieved without the collaboration of our  only neighbour, South Africa. To them, we say thank you. We call on UNESCO’s continued support in fulfilling the  requirements of the World Heritage Convention.
11.7 Mr President, knowledge and information are key to sustainable development. Freedom of expression,  information and media must be promoted in our countries, and protection of journalists at national and international levels  must be more vigorous. Investment in the competency of journalists is fundamental for Lesotho as in other countries.  Mr President, we welcome the field reform that resulted in the establishment of five regional offices in Africa. We hope  that the offices will widen and deepen the impact of UNESCO in our countries. In addition, we urge that these offices be  adequately resourced technically and financially. In light of the 22% budget cut for the coming period and the competing
286  important programmes, we support the call of our African colleagues who spoke before us, for African countries where  possible to make financial contributions to projects.
11.8 Mr President, peer review is necessary for the education for all programme in order to set out relevant and  appropriate strategies beyond 2015. Lesotho is committed to participating fully at the national, subregional and  continental levels so as to contribute to a successful assessment. Mr President, before I conclude, we have been  following the process of filling the vacant position of Director-General. The process was characterized by professionalism,  transparency and dynamism which rendered it fair and credible. I therefore wish to congratulate the three candidates  who participated in the process. Mr President, let us remain positive and work together for the realization of the strategic  objectives outlined in the Medium-Term Strategy for 2014-2021 I thank you.
12. The President:   Thank you Your Excellency. Our next speaker is Her Excellency, Ms Naana Jane Opoku-Agyemang, Minister of  Education of Ghana.
13.1 Ms Opoku-Agyemang (Ghana):   Mr President of the General Conference, Madam Chair of the Executive Board, Madam Director-General of  UNESCO, distinguished delegates, ladies and gentlemen, I feel honoured to address the 37th session of the General  Conference and bring you all greetings from His Excellency President John Dramani Mahama and the good people of  Ghana. My delegation joins others in applauding you, Madam Director-General, for your display of excellent stewardship  in the face of great challenges and on the renewal of your mandate to lead this important Organization. We also  congratulate you, Mr Hao Ping, on the occasion of your election to the high office of President of this General  Conference. We pledge our support to you both.
13.2 Mr President, my delegation notes with satisfaction the progress made by the Education Sector in delivering on  all 13 expected results of the previous Programme and Budget (36 C/5) despite a very challenging financial situation.  Ghana’s strategy for education is built on the assumption that everyone must have access to quality education, which is  a true pathway to social and economic justice and lasting peace. Education in Ghana is based on notions of quality,  equity, access and equality, with special attention paid to people of different abilities, to girls and women and the  marginalized. National intervention measures include provision of the capitation grant, school meals, uniforms, exercise  books and the reduced cost of education. Many innovative approaches to delivery, including the introduction of the  Complementary Basic Education Programme and National Literacy Acceleration Programme, have aided children out of  school, those in hard-to-reach or underserved areas, as well as other marginalized groups, to access education. As a  result, net enrolment rates in primary schools have significantly improved, with gender parity reaching targeted limits at  both pre-school, that is 1.03, and primary levels, 0.99.
13.3 Mr President, distinguished colleagues, expansion of education at all levels continues in my country, with a  sharp focus on quality delivery, more efficient management systems, better value for investment and  usable learning  outcomes in both social and economic terms. The Government plans to build 200 additional secondary schools, 10 new  colleges of education, and a new national university within the next four years. The private sector has played a very  critical role in education delivery at all levels and is very much encouraged to continue its partnership with central  government. Ghana recognizes that science, technology and innovation (STI) lead to job creation, especially for our  youth, economic stimulation, mitigation of sustainable development challenges, and satisfaction of basic needs. Our  response is to increase the number of learners, especially girls and women, and raise the quality of mathematics and  science education, through workshops for teachers and a review of the curricula and existing methodologies. We would  appreciate UNESCO’s support in this direction. The aim is to strengthen the foundations of development generally and in  particular through engineering and vocational technical education.
13.4 Mr. President, following our most recent elections in 2012, UNESCO, through its Strategy on African Youth,  collaborated with us in promoting the civic engagement and political participation of Ghana’s youth in our democratic  processes. The positive result was the commitment of the leadership of the Ghanaian youth to sustaining peace and  participating without incident in the 2012 elections. Ghana remains grateful for this.
13.5 Distinguished audience, Ghana supports the call for the centrality of culture in the post-2015 development  agenda. This is the right focus for true development. Ghana has just successfully hosted the conference on the  pedagogical use of the General History of Africa in African higher education institutions, which is a project of UNESCO  and the African Union. We had some 83 participants comprising experts, academics, researchers, university  administrators, NGOs, and others who together, reflected on the transmutation of the eight volumes into curricular  materials for delivery at various levels of education. We acknowledge the support of UNESCO Headquarters, our cluster  office, and the National Commission in Ghana for the success of the conference. We urge continued support by  everyone for this important project. My delegation urges particular attention to the gap in access to and uses of ICT in  developing countries, and suggests its employment in curriculum delivery, knowledge creation and sharing and its  movement away from knowledge consumption. We note with gratification UNESCO’s continued commitment to Africa  and gender equality and, as well, to the Organization’s envisaged training for young people. We are also pleased to note  the application of ecological and earth sciences and in this area Ghana has just hosted an international conference and  requests support. In closing, I wish to thank you all for your kind attention.
14. The President:   Thank you Your Excellency. Our next speaker is His Excellency, Mr Enver Surty, Deputy Minister of Education  of South Africa.
15.1 Mr Surty (South Africa):   Mr President, Mr Hao Ping, the Chair of the Executive Board, Ms Alissandra Cummins, Director-General,  Ms Irinia Bokova, honourable colleagues and delegates, we reach out to the people of the Philippines and share in their  pain and suffering. We are heartened by the solidarity of the international community and know that South Africa, too,  shall make its contribution. Our prayers and our thoughts therefore go to the people of the Philippines.
15.2 Mr President, as we gather here in Paris, it is fitting that we consider ways of strengthening UNESCO’s ability to  respond to the pressing educational, scientific and cultural challenges which Africa and our fellow developing States face  in achieving the Millennium Development Goals and ensuring their successful transmission into the post-2015  development agenda. In order for UNESCO to respond to these needs, it has to play a decisive leadership role on key  issues of international concern and the Organization needs to be steered in a manner that will make it more effective.  Unfortunately the Organization has been severely hamstrung by its financial situation. We thank UNESCO for  maintaining Africa as a global priority despite these trying times. My delegation calls on UNESCO to continue to place  the development of Africa high on its agenda and to remain dedicated to establishing a culture of peace, social cohesion  and inclusion on the continent of Africa. Several African countries are experiencing sustained economic growth. This  must be complemented by the support of programmes for the development of science, technology and engineering,  especially for women, as well as the celebration and promotion of Africa’s history, its heritage and its culture.
15.3 Mr President, the South African Government attaches great importance to education and since the advent of  democracy in our country, successive administrations have prioritized education. We consider education to be a key  driver of development, which is why the South African Government has identified it as an apex priority. This is reflected in  the budgetary priority given to education in our country. We are mindful of the fact that despite these strides which have  been made globally to improve access to primary education, there is still an urgent need to turn our attention to the  implications of expanded access and to address the quality of education. Equity along with quality also aimed at lifelong  learning must become critical elements of the agenda as we proceed beyond 2015. In addition, values and attitudes  informed by social justice, equality, tolerance, non-racialism, non-sexism and a commitment to peace, must inform the  content of all curricula.
15.4 At the global level, as part of the UNESCO community, we are especially concerned about those children of  primary school age who are not in school, the many young people who leave school without a level of literacy or  numeracy which is adequate for productive and active participation in economic activities and in the activities of societies,  the persistent gender gap and the plight of people living with disabilities. We pledge our support to efforts such as  education for all and the Global Education First Initiative that are directed at addressing these gaps. We are convinced  that galvanising the synergies between Millennium Development Goal 2, education for all and the Global Education First  Initiative will strengthen the movement for achieving quality education for all beyond 2015. We recognize that great  strides have been made towards the achievement of MDG 2 on universal primary education. However, much more  needs to be done in this regard and we support various efforts that are under way to accelerate the achievement of the  MDGs before 2015.
15.5 South Africa believes that the post-2015 development agenda must build on the existing development agenda,  and that education, including education for sustainable development, must be one of its most prominent features. We  look forward to the intergovernmental process that will finalize the post-2015 development agenda so that the quest for a  better world for all our people can become a reality. We all have a collective responsibility to both current and future  generations. We are also encouraged, Mr President, by the positive discussions which were held by the BRICS countries,  hosted by South Africa, in relation to the UNESCO-BRICS collaboration. In conclusion, Mr President, may I congratulate  you on your appointment and welcome the recommendation that the Director-General be re-elected. We assure you both  of our unconditional support. I thank you for your very kind attention.  Ms Imran Khan (Pakistan) takes the Chair
(17.1) Mr Baba Ahmed (Algeria) (translation from the Arabic):   Mr President of the General Conference, Madam Chair of the Executive Board, Madam Director-General of  UNESCO, Excellencies, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the delegation of Algeria, I should like to offer you warm  congratulations on your presidency of the 37th session of the General Conference, and to assure you of our full cooperation. I  take the opportunity of this meeting to convey thanks to the previous President of the General Conference, and I renew my  greetings and congratulations to Ms Irina Bokova on her nomination for re-election as Director-General of UNESCO, which is  to be approved by the General Conference at this session. Allow me also express our condolences to the families of the  victims of the typhoon that struck the Philippines, and the solidarity of the Algerian Government with the people and authorities  of the Philippines in the wake of that painful ordeal.
(17.2) This gathering provides an opportunity to renew our commitment to work together to support the Organization in  meeting the challenges facing it and to support the efforts to restructure it, with a view to responding to the needs and priorities  of the Member States, especially in this period of sharp economic downturn. Enriching the leading role of UNESCO in the  fields of education, culture and science makes a significant contribution to the fight against ignorance, intolerance and  extremism, which hamper peace, freedom and mutual understanding among peoples. Algeria, as a pole of stability and  cooperation in its region, and indeed, on the basis of the experience it has gathered through its effective contribution to the two  governing bodies of the Organization, expresses its willingness to pursue its constructive efforts to support national capacity  building and the regional aspect of UNESCO’s projects and programmes.
(17.3) As the African Union (AU) is celebrating, this year, the 50th anniversary of its foundation, the future objectives of the  Organization take on their full meaning for the countries of our continent, in view of the challenges of terrorism, and especially  the links of terrorism with drugs trafficking and organized crime. The kinds of progress achieved by the Organization in  disseminating its education, culture and science programmes are therefore a source of satisfaction and an expression of  confidence in the work performed by the Secretariat of the Organization.
(17.4) Algeria’s achievement of the Millennium Development Goals (MDGs) before 2015 has enabled it, within the  framework of the consultations on the post-2015 development agenda, to strike a balance in its economic and social  development programmes by ensuring better acknowledgement of the educational, cultural and scientific dimensions. National  capacity building in the fields of competence of the Organization is a priority, especially with regard to education, which is  considered a means for combating ignorance and exclusion. This has led to efforts being exerted to eradicate illiteracy among  adults, especially women, and these efforts have received recognition from UNESCO.
(17.5) Furthermore, the application by the Algerian Government of a voluntary policy during legislative elections in May
2012 of ensuring that 30% of seats were reserved for women in the assemblies being elected led to significant advances being  made in women’s representation in both houses of parliament and in the provincial and local assemblies. In this connection,
289  Algeria is hosting an international conference on this topic in December 2013, in cooperation with the United Nations  Development Programme (UNDP).
(17.6) Fruitful and many-sided cooperation between our country and UNESCO has been ongoing regarding the reform  programme aimed at enhancing the quality of teachers and education, which is to be assessed by the Organization. Algeria  also participates in the Organization’s science programme, especially the Management of Social Transformations (MOST)  Programme, the Intergovernmental Oceanographic Commission (IOC), and the Avicenna programme on the one hand, and it  contributes effectively to the International Programme for the Development of Communication (IPDC) on the other hand.  Algeria has ratified all the international conventions relating to the preservation and strengthening of the tangible and  intangible cultural heritage, and it is on the point of submitting its instruments of ratification. I take this opportunity to announce  that we are also in the process of ratifying the 1954 Convention for the Protection of Cultural Property in the Event of Armed  Conflict.
(17.7) At the regional level, our country participated effectively in January 2013 in establishing the League of Imams and  Muslim Scholars and Preachers of the Sahel with a view to strengthening the tolerant nature of Islam and combating extremist  discourse and ideologies, especially with respect to young people. Our country has also established an Africa Museum in  Algeria with the help of UNESCO experts. This cultural institution will help to support a project for the establishment of a  regional category 2 centre for safeguarding the intangible cultural heritage in Africa, the principle of which was agreed at the
192nd session of the Executive Board. I take this opportunity to appeal to the General Conference to approve this project,  which will open up new horizons for cooperation between African countries and UNESCO. In this connection, I should like to  inform you that we intend to inscribe the imzad, a musical instrument which is the joint heritage of the Sahel countries,  especially Algeria, Mali and Niger, on the Representative List of the Intangible Cultural Heritage of Humanity.
(17.8) In conclusion, I wish this General Conference every success in its work, which will constitute an important step in  adapting the Organization to preserving the essence of its missions. As we renew our confidence in UNESCO and the work  undertaken by its Director-General, I take this opportunity to appeal to the Member States to vote in favour of Algeria’s  candidacy for a seat on the Executive Board. Thank you.
18. The President:   Thank you very much Your Excellency Abdelatif Baba Ahmed. Now I would request Her Excellency, Ms Monica  Babuc, Minister of Culture of the Republic of Moldova, to please come to the stage and give her address.
19.1 Mme Babuc (République de Moldova) :   Monsieur le Président de la Conférence générale, Mesdames et Messieurs les ministres, Mesdames et  Messieurs les ambassadeurs, Excellences, estimables invités, j’ai l’immense plaisir de vous saluer aujourd’hui, à  l’occasion de la 37e  session de la Conférence générale de l’UNESCO qui revêt une importance majeure pour les États  participants.
19.2 La culture de la paix et le renforcement d’une société durable à travers la promotion de la collaboration entre les  pays membres dans les domaines de la science, de l’éducation et de la communication ne sont pas uniquement une  ambition naturelle mais sont une solution à long terme, car face à l’actualité mondiale, le rôle de l’UNESCO est  extrêmement important et mérite toute l’attention voulue. La République de Moldova exprime sa détermination à   renforcer l’esprit de coopération, de dialogue et de compréhension entre nations, ainsi que sa volonté de préserver et  promouvoir la richesse et la diversité de notre patrimoine culturel commun en tant que trésor mondial.
19.3 Les réformes ambitieuses du Gouvernement moldave ainsi que sa politique étrangère sont orientées vers la  réalisation de l’objectif stratégique de notre pays – l’intégration européenne. Le Gouvernement de la République de  Moldova a finalisé les négociations de l’Accord d’association avec l’Union européenne, que nous espérons parapher lors  du Sommet du Partenariat oriental qui aura lieu à Vilnius. Les valeurs et la spécificité du patrimoine culturel de la  République de Moldova bénéficient d’une large reconnaissance internationale. Des éléments comme le redressement de  la stabilité politique, l’avancement sur la voie de l’intégration européenne et le lancement d’importants projets de  développement ont créé des conditions favorables pour la promotion de la culture, de l’éducation et de la science en tant  que facteurs essentiels de développement durable et de promotion de la créativité à travers les actions mises en place.
19.4 Les contraintes liées aux ressources disponibles et la reconnaissance insuffisante du potentiel de la culture  comme facteur de développement ont cependant placé la culture en bas de la liste des priorités politiques. La culture  demeure malheureusement une question résiduelle, tant au niveau national que régional, alors que son importance n’est  plus à démontrer. Compte tenu de la rapidité de l’évolution de l’existence humaine aux niveaux global et local, la culture  est une ressource indispensable pour la compréhension et la gestion du changement. Il s’agit d’une réalité que l’on peut  constater en Europe du Sud-Est, marquée par des processus de transition profondes touchant le politique, l’économique  et le social. Aussi la République de Moldova réaffirme-t-elle sa détermination à placer la culture parmi ses priorités et à  intensifier la coopération bilatérale et multilatérale, ainsi que sa volonté de renforcer la dimension transnationale et  transfrontalière en vue de créer un outil de dialogue et de développement plus efficace. La coopération intrarégionale, le  transfert des savoirs et le partage de bonnes pratiques resteront, eux aussi, des priorités.
19.5 Honorable assistance, les industries créatives sont essentielles pour le développement de l’économie de la  connaissance. L’intérêt accru pour les nouvelles industries et les technologies des opérateurs culturels montre le rôle  que celles-ci peuvent jouer dans l’économie nationale. Tout en soulignant l’importance des actions menées par  l’UNESCO, la République de Moldova considère qu’il convient de prêter une attention prioritaire au renforcement du  cadre directeur général, juridique et institutionnel de l’Organisation afin de promouvoir le patrimoine culturel et la  créativité, la préservation et le développement des expressions culturelles, la sauvegarde du patrimoine culturel  immatériel, le soutien aux industries culturelles et la créativité dynamique.
19.6 Honorable assistance, la République de Moldova soutiendra les engagements de l’UNESCO en faveur de la  promotion de l’éducation en tant que source de développement durable et encouragera son rôle clé dans la Décennie
290  des Nations Unies pour l’éducation au service du développement durable, en conformité avec les Objectifs du Millénaire  pour le développement. J’aimerais souligner notre préoccupation concernant l’éducation artistique qui, à nos yeux, ne  jouit pas d’une attention suffisante de la part de l’UNESCO. Compte tenu de la contribution importante que l’éducation  artistique peut apporter dans tous les secteurs de la société, l’UNESCO devrait l’identifier comme une activité  transversale de programmes connexes tels que l’Éducation pour tous et l’Éducation au développement durable. Nous  reconnaissons le rôle que joue l’UNESCO dans la transmission du savoir-faire scientifique pour le développement  durable de la société. Nous espérons que les liens entre la science, les processus innovants, les politiques économiques  et entrepreneuriales et les politiques environnementales seront au cœur de l’activité de l’UNESCO.
19.7 Mesdames et Messieurs, permettez-moi d’exprimer le soutien sans réserve de mon pays aux réformes  récemment entreprises par l’UNESCO. Nous sommes convaincus que la vocation universelle développée ces dernières  années par l’UNESCO sera renforcée et qu’on réussira ensemble à mettre en place de beaux projets. Merci.
20. The President:   Thank you very much Your Excellency, Ms Monica Babuc. Now I would request Her Excellency, Dr Olivia  Muchena, Minister of Higher Education and Tertiary Education, Sciences and Technology Development of Zimbabwe, to  please come to the stage.
21.1 Ms Muchena (Zimbabwe):   President of the General Conference, Chair of the Executive Board, Director-General, Your Excellencies, and  delegates. Mr President, my delegation congratulates you on your Presidency, while recognizing the sterling work of your  predecessor, Ms Katalin Bogyay. To Ms Irina Bokova, we extend our congratulations on her nomination for re-election as  the Director-General of UNESCO. Mr President and Madam Director-General, you can count on Zimbabwe’s support  during your tenure of office.
21.2 Mr President, the outcome document The Future We Want stresses that eradicating poverty is still the greatest  global challenge as it is an indispensable requirement for sustainable development. UNESCO should use its unique  multi-dimensional mandate and comparative advantage to position itself strategically in the post-2015 development  agenda. The outcome document identifies education as fundamentally important to achieving sustainable development in  attaining the internationally agreed development goals. However, UNESCO is not identified as the lead agency in  education. The Organization should put forward a strong case for quality and relevant education for sustainable  development under UNESCO’s leadership. This implies going beyond the current education for all goals by being more  holistic in both approach and strategy. Zimbabwe has made significant strides in education, with literacy rates at 92%,  access to primary education at 98% and access to secondary education at 70%, and on gender equity at primary school  level. What is required now is a transformation of the structure, quality and content of the education system from early  childhood education to university level so as to meet the evolving national development needs and aspirations.
21.3 Through its economic policy vehicle called the Zimbabwe Agenda for Sustainable Socio-Economic  Transformation (Zim Asset), Zimbabwe aims to increase access and attention to technical and vocational education and  training to develop entrepreneurial skills. One of the objectives is empowering women, young people, rural and urban  communities for employment in the formal and informal sectors. Pursuant to the Shanghai Consensus on TVET,  Zimbabwe is ready to work with UNESCO and other partners to achieve this objective.
21.4 Mr President, again in the outcome document for the post-2015 development agenda no mention is made of  UNESCO’s role in the natural, physical and human sciences or in science, technology and innovation. And yet the  Operational Strategy on Priority Africa identifies lack of technological capacities, among other factors, as contributing to  poverty in Africa. Zimbabwe appreciates what UNESCO is doing through the engineering initiative. This initiative, among  other things, seeks to address the decreasing interest in engineering among youth, and the under-representation of  women, a trend we have also observed in Zimbabwe. The thrust of the engineering initiative will embrace Africa’s  capacity to utilize its abundant natural and human resources, reduce unemployment and promote sustainable  development. We look forward to the implementation of the initiative in Africa in 2014.
21.5 In her August 2013 report to the United Nations, the Director-General demonstrated that culture can and should  be a vector for equitable and sustainable development. Zimbabwe is ready to partner with UNESCO in cultural initiatives  that create employment, generate income, as well as promote values of peace and pride in the ownership of cultural  heritage as in the General History of Africa project. We applaud the Director-General’s ability to do so much with so few  resources. While we do understand the financial crisis of the Organization, measures taken to address that financial  situation should not compromise the efficiency of the Organization and equitable geographical representation of staff.  Mr President, Zimbabwe is honoured to host in Harare the UNESCO Multisectoral Regional Office in Southern Africa to  which the Government will render its support. We look forward to hosting the Director-General when the office is officially  opened soon. We thank you.
22. The President:   Thank you very much Your Excellency, Dr Olivia Muchena. Now I would request His Excellency, Mr Mingbo  Dukpa, Minister of Education of Bhutan, to please come to the stage and give his address.
23.1 Mr Dukpa (Bhutan):   Mr President, Madam Director-General, Madam Chair of the Executive Board, Your Excellencies, distinguished  delegates, I bring warm greetings from His Majesty the King and the people of Bhutan. It is indeed a great honour for me  to address this august body as part of the general policy debate. On behalf of my delegation, I congratulate you Mr  President on your election to this high office. I have full confidence that under your leadership we will be able to  effectively respond to any challenges that UNESCO may be faced with. I wish to assure you of my delegation’s full
291  support and cooperation in whatever endeavours you may wish to embark on. My delegation would also like to express  our sincere appreciation to the outgoing President Ms Katalin Bogyay, who, I have been told, guided the work of the 36th  session in an exemplary manner.
23.2 UNESCO’s vision and ideology of a peaceful and prosperous world and Bhutan’s own development philosophy  of Gross National Happiness (GNH) are in alignment towards striving to build a happier world for ourselves and for future  generations. UNESCO’s areas of competence in the fields of education, science and culture, as indeed its focus on  sustainable development, is being reoriented in schools in Bhutan. In pursuit of such an end, Bhutan has structured its  development programmes on nine domains that constitute a paradigm for holistic and sustainable development, such as  the holistic development of the child that encompasses all the dimensions of the child’s intellectual, social and cultural  spheres. Bhutan’s school system endeavours to cultivate an curriculum informed by education for sustainable  development (ESD). This renewed outlook and vitality aspires to realize both the uniqueness of our national philosophy  of GNH as well as the need for education to look both inward and outward.
23.3 My delegation welcomes UNESCO reforms that are increasing UNESCO’s focus and positioning it closer to the  field, as the strengthening of its field presence will greatly benefit small nations like Bhutan. The reformed field network,  which will strengthen cooperation with other United Nations agencies, will go beyond a delivering approach, and  strengthen the cooperation among regional and subregional organizations, as well as with our National Commissions.
23.4 Mr President, my delegation wish to reaffirm Bhutan’s unwavering support of UNESCO's principal focus on  education for all, and is pleased to state that Bhutan is very much on track with many of the Millennium Development  Goals (MDGs). We have accelerated our efforts towards the six EFA goals for 2015. Believing that preparing today’s  child is more important than preparing the future for the child, my Government has accelerated and expanded early  childhood care and education as a national priority. To ensure that all children have access to schools by 2015, special  attention has been directed to reaching the unreached. Primary education facilities have been expanded so that no  school-going child has to walk more than an hour to attend his or her classes. Full boarding facilities are provided to the  isolated and nomadic communities. Education at the basic level, from pre-primary (PP) to class 10, is completely free.  Bhutan has achieved a gross enrolment ratio of 118% and a net enrolment ratio of 96% in primary education. Bhutan is  ensuring that the learning needs of all young people and adults are met through equitable access to appropriate learning  and life-skills programmes. I am happy to report that for serving the learning and training needs of the rural community  through non-formal and continuing education programmes, particularly those of women and girls, through provision of  basic literacy and functional skills, Bhutan was awarded an honourable mention in the context of  the UNESCO- Confucius Prize for Literacy in 2009, and was the proud recipient of the Prize in 2012. Bhutan’s adult literacy rate is  currently placed at 60%. A comprehensive strategy for incorporating gender mainstreaming into plans of action is  ensured in our 11th Five Year Plan, running from 2013 to 2018. Bhutan remains fully committed to realizing its full  provisions and other international and regional gender goals and targets, enshrined in the MDGs and South Asian  Association for Regional Cooperation (SAARC) development goals.
23.5 Having myself devoted almost all my life to teaching and educating teachers, I personally believe that no quality  of education system can exceed the quality of its teachers. My Government’s main focus on the improvement of teacher  competence is very much in line with UNESCO’s policy of improving the quality of education through enhancing  teachers’ professional development. My ministry has developed a teachers’ human resources policy that will hopefully  ensure an improvement in the overall quality of education by improving teacher remuneration and expanding training  opportunities. A teacher awards system has been instituted to recognize the hard work of our teachers and to retain them  in the profession. My Government is pleased with UNESCO’s strategy and initiative to help its Member States to further  raise the status of the teaching profession, as this has also become one of my country’s major challenges. Mr President,  allow me to conclude by stating that Bhutan, which joined UNESCO in 1982, is proud of its association with an  Organization with profound visions. Bhutan attaches great importance to UNESCO’s noble ideals, vision and purpose.  We therefore, reaffirm our commitment to support UNESCO and its noble objectives. Thank you for your kind attention.  Tashi delek.
24. The President:   Now I would request Her Excellency, Ms Miriam Patricia Rubio, National Secretary of Science and Technology  of Guatemala, to please come to the stage.
(25.1) Ms Rubio (Guatemala) (translation from the Spanish):  Madam Director-General, ministers, secretaries of State and heads of delegations, distinguished ambassadors and permanent  delegates, ladies and gentlemen, friends of Guatemala: the country of eternal spring brings you cordial greetings.
(25.2) On behalf of the delegation of Guatemala, I should like to congratulate Mr Hao Ping on his election as President of  the current General Conference, and Ms Alissandra Cummins for her extraordinary work as Chair of  the Executive Board.  Madam Director-General, Irina Bokova, the Government of President Otto Pérez Melina and of Madam Vice President,  Roxanna Baldetti, welcomes your nomination for re-election as the head of this house of dialogue and consensus, and I  should like to take this opportunity to renew the invitation to you to visit Guatemala in 2014.
(25.3) Culture shapes our vision of the world, gives rise to the changes in attitude necessary to ensure peace and  sustainable development. Guatemala has a rich indigenous culture, a product of its Mayan heritage, which we are proud to  preserve, foster and promote. We are implementing public policies in accordance with the Peace Accords and the national  plan for long-term cultural development. The policies are designed to strengthen the culture of peace and the Guatemalan  identity and to consolidate a multicultural and multilingual State. We now have literacy programmes in 20 national languages.
(25.4) Legal protection of the cultural heritage is an approach of national importance for preventing and combating  trafficking in cultural goods. International legal regulations are clearly inadequate, and we urge the developed world to make a  greater commitment to revising current regulations, in order to make genuine progress in the combat against trafficking in the  historic heritage of countries worldwide We must not, under any circumstances, postpone making this commitment.
(25.5) We have decided to promote the archaeological site Takalik Abaj as a cultural heritage of humanity, a unique  demonstration of the peaceful cohabitation of cultures, since this site was once home to Maya and Olmec civilizations,  demonstrating that it is possible to maintain unity in diversity.
(25.6) Guatemala is renewing its commitment to education. I would like to focus on education reform efforts which include  the professionalization of teachers and improvements in education coverage and quality, for which we hope to receive full  support from UNESCO.
(25.7) Efforts to reduce the illiteracy rate have produced their first fruit. In February 2013, UNESCO declared several  communities in Guatemala free of illiteracy owing to the implementation of programmes like "Yo, si puedo", based on a Cuban  method, the Programma Nacional de Lectura and "Leamos Juntos en Familia".
(25.8) The national system of education indicators has been strengthened, thereby providing an overview of national  conditions and enabling efforts to be focused on areas where the need is greatest.  Noteworthy in that connection was the  presentation by UNESCO of the World Atlas of Gender Equality in Education on the occasion of the International Day for Non- Sexist Education, during which a debate was held on education and gender indicators in Guatemala.
(25.9) I should like to draw attention to the new threat to freedom of expression represented by organized crime. The  Government of Guatemala renews its commitment to the free expression of thought and is taking measures to promote the  independence and safety of journalists regionally, nationally and internationally.
(25.10) Guatemala has a vast reserve of natural resources, for example, in the Trifinio-Fraternidad Biosphere Reserve on  the territories of El Salvador, Guatemala and Honduras, in which there is a great wealth of biodiversity and ecosystems and  which has a strategic location. We are grateful to Germany and UNESCO for their support through cooperation programmes in  that region.
(25.11) I cannot fail to mention the importance of improving policy coordination mechanisms in the field of water, on the  basis of the principle of shared responsibility among all States that benefit from water resources. In Guatemala, we are certain  that it is possible to work with UNESCO on the promotion of policies that respect the sovereignty of States and foster at the  same time the coordination of specific initiatives to preserve water resources that involve all the beneficiaries.
(25.12)  In the field of science and technology, Guatemala is working with a model that integrates and fosters interaction of  the public sector, academic circles and the productive sector, within the framework of the national science and technology  system. Under this system, we have implemented activities for education, training and updating the knowledge of national  resources, both at the technical and higher levels, through the promotion of study opportunities and the creation of academic  programmes.
(25.13) Research and development have been stimulated through special meetings designed to meet the needs of strategic  national sectors. In 2013, for the first time, a special meeting on the pact for security, justice and peace through science,  technology and innovation was held. In addition, a programme was set up to improve the quality of research and guarantee its  social and economic impact by redesigning project evaluation criteria on the basis of results-based management techniques.  Under the Telecentros programme, the digital divide in our country continues to shrink and new communication systems  continue to be built to ensure the access of communities in remote areas.
(25.14) We believe that the current context is ideal for the establishment of a UNESCO Chair in science and technology for  Guatemala. We therefore hope that UNESCO will provide the necessary support for the specific measures needed to launch  the Chair in 2014.
(25.15) We are encouraging biotechnology research and the drafting of bioethics policies, and we are counting on  UNESCO’s support for the establishment of a national biotechnology programme and a subprogramme for human resources  training in biotechnology 2012-2022, as well as a MOST summer school Chair for the following year.
(25.16) We should like once again to urge UNESCO to support us in the development of peace education activities aimed  mainly at youth in situations of risk, in light of the imminent threat of juvenile violence and the social phenomenon of the gangs  known as “maras”. With the support and commitment of President Otto Pérez Molina and our Vice President Roxana Baldetti,  we have been able to move with determination and sustained action towards a Guatemala that enjoys fully the benefits of  peace.
(25.17) With government policies on education, culture, science, technology and innovation for a competitive edge, gender  equality, health and social inclusion, we are certain to ensure, as our sacred Mayan book Popol Vuh says, “that no one is left  behind … in the country of the eternal spring”. Thank you.
26. The President:   Thank you Ms Rubio. Now I will request His Excellency, Mr Ghulam Farooq Wardak, Minister of National  Education of Afghanistan, to please come to the stage.
27.1 Mr Wardak (Afghanistan):   Mr President, Madam Director-General, Excellencies, distinguished delegates, ladies and gentlemen, as-salāmu  ‘alaikum wa-rahmatu llāhi wa-barakātuh (Peace and the mercy of God be upon you). First of all, I would like to  congratulate Mr Hao Ping on his election as the President of this session of the General Conference and also I wish to  express my heartfelt thanks to Ms Katarina Bogyay, his predecessor, for her contribution to the 36th session of the  General Conference. I am honoured to represent Afghanistan in such a distinguished gathering, where everyone is  driven by the sole purpose of serving humanity and its future. Taking this opportunity, I thank the Director-General, Ms  lrina Bokova, and her team, for arranging the policy debate within the framework of the General Conference.
27.2 Excellencies, I am delighted to state that the development of education in my country is the most successful  legacy of the international community’s partnership and collaboration with the people of Afghanistan over the last 12  years. We have been able to transform the disabled, defunct and neglected education system of 2001 which was  providing poor quality education to less than 1 million students, none of whom were girls, into the progressive,  responsive and inclusive education system of today that serves 10.5 million Afghan children and youth, 41% of which are  girls. In the past decade, we have made visible strides in culture, information and communication, and as more Afghans  are educated and trained, the prospects for development in science and sports are already becoming evident. Today, in  our population of 33 million, there are 20 million mobile phone users; 95% of the population has access to some form of  mass media, and about two million people have access to Internet services. Moreover, a vibrant media sector including  more than 65 television stations, 174 radio broadcasters and 1,000 newspapers is expanding all over the country, where
12 years ago there was only one television station, only one newspaper and only one radio station.
27.3 Our recent achievements in sports, such as winning the South Asian Football Federation Championship and our  qualification for the cricket world cup are sources of pride and energy for a country that emerged from war just 12 years  ago. On behalf of the people of Afghanistan, I would like to acknowledge with gratitude the fact that without the support  of our friends in the international community, we would not have been able to bring about this unprecedented  transformation in such a short time.
27.4 Distinguished colleagues, our experiences in Afghanistan highlight the fact that security is possible through  development and that challenges can be converted into opportunities, if the right strategies and approaches are chosen,  a few of which I would like to share with this august forum. First, at the grassroots level we have placed community  mobilization and community empowerment at the heart of our strategic focus to protect schools, encourage parents to  learn and send their children to schools, monitor their progress, and provide alternative pathways to education. Second,  the integration of informal education: in order to meet the divergent needs of our people, we have been enhancing  cohesion across our formal education system and various informal pathways such as community-based and mosque- based education, which is considered in Afghanistan and many other Muslim countries as the richest form of pre-school  education, and pre-school accelerated learning programmes. Third, financial commitment to education. At a  governmental level, again because of our advocacy for EFA goals, in the past seven years we have doubled the amount  allocated to education in our national budget, from $260 million in 2007 to $580 million in 2013. We are committed to  continuing our efforts to further steadily increase the national budget allocation for education. Fourth, Afghanistan global  partnerships. In order to reach every Afghan child, especially those who are vulnerable and marginalized, and achieve  the education for all and Millennium Development Goals, in addition to our regular programmes, we have had the  privilege of regional and international partnerships such as the Global Partnership for Education (GPE), the United  Kingdom’s Global Girl’s Education Challenge Fund, the United Nations Secretary-General’s Global Education First  Initiative, USAID’s “Room to Learn” programme and Qatar’s “Educate a Child” initiative. These partnerships will  collectively enable us to provide education to all those who do not have access to it today.
27.5 Honourable colleagues, as you are aware, progress towards universal schooling remains challenging in poor  and conflict-affected areas, including Afghanistan. The quality of learning for children and youth who attend school does  not match the expectations for a stable future. The global financial slow-down, aid reductions and national resource  constraints limit our possibilities to address these issues, unless we stimulate change on the following five fronts: these  are important, my colleagues, as education is unfortunately ranked a very low priority by some of the key donors offering  international development support. Firstly, as members of the international community, we need to maintain investment  in education as a high priority at least for the next decade. Second, we need to advocate for raising education as a  pressing priority at the global level. We should highlight the need for promoting UNESCO’s profile as a global leader in  education, science and culture within the United Nations family at the corresponding level of the importance of education.  Third, more specifically, UNESCO’s country offices can and should play a better role in lobbying respective governments  to increase national budget allocations for education. Fourth, it is very important in order to improve equity in areas  affected by high disparities that donors should make girls’ education a precondition for funding to NGOs and private  foundations. Fifth, moving forward, unity of purpose, collaboration and genuine partnership between governments,  agencies, public and private institutions are much-needed sources of strength and hope for millions of out-of-school  children and their families.
27.6 Excellencies, Afghanistan is coming out of a lingering war and humanitarian disaster and needs continued  support to stand on its own two feet. We are still in need of assistance to develop the type of human resources that are  essential for our economic growth, through exploiting our untapped underground natural resources and minerals. By  doing so, we are confident that we shall not remain a burden on the international community any more, but will shift our  role from an aid-receiving country to an aid-providing nation. I conclude, ladies and gentlemen, by renewing our
295  commitment to the principles and values of UNESCO and assure you of our dedication to the Millennium Development  Goals (MDGs) and the post-2015 agenda. We will continue to strongly support UNESCO’s objectives and we will take an  active part in achieving its noble mission. I thank you very much.
28. The President:   Thank you Mr Wardak. Now I would request His Excellency, Mr Giuseppe Maria Morganti, Minister of Education  of San Marino to please come and address this assembly.
29.1 M. Morganti (Saint-Marin) :   Permettez-moi tout d’abord, au nom de Saint-Marin, d’adresser à la population philippine un message de  solidarité en ce moment de grande difficulté. Monsieur le Président, Madame la Directrice générale, Mesdames et  Messieurs les délégués, devant cette assemblée, il est émouvant de penser que l’Acte constitutif de l’UNESCO a été  inspiré par la plus grande philosophie du monde, conférant à cette Organisation un rôle fondamental dans la poursuite  de parcours de paix et de dialogue entre les États, fondés sur la mémoire et la culture, c'est-à-dire sur des valeurs  toujours partagées par l’humanité.
29.2 Nous sommes conscients des défis auxquels l’UNESCO doit faire face à moyen et à long termes dans la  gestion de la complexité croissante, de l’évolution rapide et des profondes incertitudes du monde, qui exigent de la  société qu’elle reconsidère ses propres paradigmes culturels. Alors que les individus sont de plus en plus diversifiés, que  la multiculturalité existe dans la réalité avant d’être reflétée dans les projets, que les expériences dans le réseau  électronique amplifient la variété des attentes individuelles et des nouvelles formes de microculture, l’éducation et la  concrétisation des connexions culturelles et matérielles de notre planète deviennent incontournables. En effet, le  dialogue entre les cultures est non seulement une exigence éthique d’aujourd’hui, mais la condition préalable de toute  évolution future de l’humanité. Afin d’élaborer cette perspective culturelle d’une façon efficace, il est urgent de  développer une double conscience collective : la conscience de la multiplicité irréductible des identités individuelles et,  en même temps, la conscience de l’évolution unitaire de l’espèce humaine.
29.3 Pour évoluer concrètement vers une société plus durable et partagée, il faut donner de nouvelles compétences  de base à tous les citoyens, investir dans les ressources humaines, dans leur autonomisation, dans la création de  résiliences et dans l’innovation didactique et, surtout, il faut favoriser au maximum l’accès à l’éducation et à la formation  pour tous. L’objectif est de faire advenir une citoyenneté active et critique, capable de dialoguer et d’intégrer de façon  dialectique la diversité et l’universalité, la continuité et le changement, les contextes local et global. Notre désir est de  créer chez les femmes et les hommes un sentiment d’appartenance à leur propre territoire ainsi qu’au monde entier, et  d’établir des liens originaux et prévisibles entre le local et le global, de connecter de manière concentrique les différentes  patries.
29.4 En ce sens, nous sommes très reconnaissants à la Directrice générale de son rôle dans le développement d’un  nouvel humanisme et l’élaboration d’une réforme de l’UNESCO qui donne déjà des résultats importants. Les politiques  encouragées par l’UNESCO vont dans le sens du désir de créer des identités collectives pour les nations, dont les  cultures pourront apprendre les unes des autres. La communication mutuelle et la compréhension interculturelle sont  même rappelées dans la Stratégie à moyen terme, dont certains objectifs sont au cœur d’une importante réforme  culturelle entreprise par notre pays, que j’ai l’honneur de représenter aujourd’hui :  notamment, la promotion de la  créativité et de la diversité des manifestations culturelles et la mise en place de conditions qui permettent aux citoyens  de tous les pays d’être des citoyens du monde créatifs et responsables. Pour ces raisons, Saint-Marin continuera  d’apporter son soutien aux programmes prioritaires de l’UNESCO tout en suivant les orientations de l’Organisation et en  s’engageant à contribuer à leur mise en œuvre. Merci de votre attention.
30. The President:   Thank you very much Mr Morganti. Now I would request His Excellency, Mr Jesús Engonga Ndong, Minister of  Education and Sciences of Equatorial Guinea, to please come to the stage.
(31.1) Mr Ndong (Equatorial Guinea) (translation from the Spanish):   Mr President of the General Conference, Madam Chair of the Executive Board, Madam Director-General of  UNESCO, ministers of education and the world of science and culture, ambassadors, permanent delegates, ladies and  gentlemen: I should like to express before all of you our solidarity with the people and Government of the Philippines following  this terrible  natural disaster.
(31.2) Mr President: it is a great honour for us to participate in this 37th session of the General Conference of UNESCO, as  a representative of the Government of the Republic of Equatorial Guinea, in whose name, we sincerely thank the organizers  for inviting us. Indeed, the General Conference is the supreme body of UNESCO; it is where the Member States take  decisions on various policies, programmes and projects at the multilateral and multisectoral level.
(31.3) Cooperation between the Republic of Equatorial Guinea and UNESCO goes back to the 1970s, some years after we  gained national independence. As part of that cooperation, UNESCO made a major and valuable contribution to the training of  secondary school teachers in the Educational Development Centre in Bata, the second capital of the country. I, myself,  graduated from the Centre. Those cooperative efforts were also implemented in the country’s various secondary education  centres, with a view to building a sizeable group of well-qualified UNESCO teachers.
(31.4) With the support of UNESCO, the Government of Equatorial Guinea has since 1995 been building a system of  higher education in the country, including the National University of Equatorial Guinea. This institution now has more than
6,000 students, divided among its many faculties and departments. The Government is also continuing its efforts in the field of  higher education with the establishment of a subregional university: the American University of Central Africa, the physical  infrastructure of which has already been completed and for which we are currently negotiating management and technical  assistance services with American universities in other parts of the world. In addition, with the support of UNESCO and in  order to disseminate information and culture throughout the country, we have installed radio stations in rural zones.
(31.5) Ladies and gentlemen: Equatorial Guinea believes in education as an agent of change, as a force for development,  and we are therefore taking important measures in the field of curriculum reform. We are working to change the traditional  education paradigm based on knowledge of realities outside of the country and to incorporate as well elements of our cultural  and historical sensibility.
(31.6) In this framework of fruitful cooperation, and in its desire to provide our Organization with support for scientific  research, the Government of Equatorial Guinea funded the UNESCO-Equatorial Guinea International Prize for Research in the  Life Sciences, and the First Vice President of the Republic, on behalf of His Excellency Mr Obiang Nguema Mbansogo,  personally attended the first award ceremony, held at Headquarters in July of last year. We therefore wish to express our most  sincere thanks to the Executive Board and to Madam Director-General of UNESCO.
(31.7) Ladies and gentlemen: these positive changes in the field of education reflect what is happening in general in the  country. The Government of Equatorial Guinea is in fact engaged in the political and institutional development of the nation on  the basis of respect for, recognition and application of the fundamental freedoms of the individual. Today, in our country, there  is no discrimination on the basis of religion, ideology, politics, race or ethnic group, and there is no institutional discrimination.
(31.8) The aim of the current programme of the Government of Equatorial Guinea, in effect until 2020, is to transform the  country into an emerging nation. This involves a process of industrialization, social transformations and training of multifaceted  human resources, for which we hope once again to count on UNESCO’s support. Therefore, and in addition to the projects  underway, through the Regional Office that has just opened in Yaounde, we plan to broaden our multisectoral cooperation with  UNESCO, at the bilateral and multilateral level.
(31.9) Before ending my brief statement, I should like to congratulate, firstly, Mr Hao Ping on his election as President of  the supreme body of this institution, and, with warmth, the outgoing President of the General Conference, Ms Katalin Bogyay,  the Chair of the Executive Board, Ms Alissandra Cummins, and the Director-General of UNESCO, Irina Bokova (on  her  nomination for re-election as head of this great institution), three women who have guided our Organization during the past  four years through innovation, restructuring and programming, in spite of the great existing difficulties. In that connection, we  urge the Director-General of UNESCO not only to maintain Priority Africa, so vital to our continent, but also to make it truly  effective and operational.
(31.10) We are aware of the financial difficulties that UNESCO faces; however, we also believe that projects like the General  History of Africa and its pedagogic use, the global coalition for a literate world, and the self-assessment  of education for all  (EFA) by the Africans themselves deserve special attention from all the parties concerned. We recommend furthermore that  the reform of the field office system, that is, the reform of the new regional offices, should include genuinely qualified human  resources.
(31.11) We should like to assure you that we will communicate faithfully to our Government the difficulties that UNESCO is  experiencing and the resolutions that are adopted by this grand assembly, as well as the support that it needs from its Member  States. Thank you.
32. The President:   Thank you Excellency. Our next speaker is Her Excellency, Ms Baklai Joyleen Temengil, Minister of Community  and Cultural Affairs of Palau.
33.1 Ms Temengil (Palau):    Alii from the Republic of Palau, Mr President of the 37th session of the General Conference, Ms Irina Bokova,  Director-General of UNESCO, Members of the Executive Board, distinguished delegates, ladies and gentlemen, it gives  me great pleasure to address the General Conference this morning. Congratulations and greetings from the Republic of  Palau. Along with Saint Kitts and Nevis, Palau is happy to co-sponsor the draft resolution submitted by New Zealand.  This resolution is a preventive mechanism that will help small island developing States (SIDS) such as Palau to achieve  their strategic development goals and targets.
33.2 Palau is on track with its action plan in accordance with the Pacific World Heritage Action Plan (2010-2015). In
2012, Palau’s nomination, the Rock Islands Southern Lagoon, was inscribed on the World Heritage List which covers  sites of both natural and cultural significance. This historical event was possible through collaborative efforts and  partnership between the national and State governments to fulfil the management plan requirements with the support of  UNESCO and Member States. Efforts are now under way to undertake consultations and steps toward creating  management plans for the transboundary Yapese Stone Money Transboundary Sites of Palau and Yap, in the Federated  States of Micronesia. Review of the previous nominations and compilation of data to complete the nomination of the  transboundary site for the World Heritage List are ongoing.
33.3 In 2011, Palau ratified UNESCO’s Convention for the Safeguarding of the Intangible Cultural Heritage,  known  as the 2003 ICH Convention. Since then, Palau has completed its cultural mapping report which assesses and  summarizes Palau’s cultural sector and its various dimensions. Consultation meetings and workshops with cultural  stakeholders are now being planned to pave the way toward creating and adopting Palau’s ICH national policy. Last  month, the Palau Ministry of Education received UNESCO funding to promote ICH in Palau’s education system, so as to  support the sustainability of ICH and its transmission to the next generation. Through UNESCO’s Participation  Programme, Palau has received assistance in both culture preservation, education, and environmental assessment.
33.4 I would like to highlight the local efforts that our Government is making in preserving and ensuring the protection  of our environment. The Micronesia Challenge is a regional environmental initiative to conserve 30% of our reefs and
20% of our land in their natural state. We have established the world’s first shark sanctuary to help preserve the health of  our oceans in keeping with our tradition of conservation, known as bul. We have a protected areas network, known as  PAN, an environmental programme to protect our fragile environment from exploitation, funded by collecting green fees  from the departure fees paid by Palau’s visitors.
33.5 Finally, I call on this assembly to reflect on a particular statement made by UNESCO in its 2011 publication,  From Green Economies to Green Societies: which was that “the complex and multifaceted challenges and risks of today  and the future call for a response which addresses the social, economic and environmental issues facing the world today  in an integrated and comprehensive manner, with new indicators to guide us.” Many UNESCO Member States,  especially the SIDS, including Palau, continue to face mounting challenges in protecting their surrounding oceans and  sea-based resources. This is a desperate battle with more than just an economic foundation. His Excellency, President  Tommy E. Remengesau of Palau is fond of saying, “our environment is our economy and our economy is our  environment.” Whichever way we look at the continuing struggle of SIDS, we must recognize that there is a serious role  to be played by UNESCO.  UNESCO must offer all possible support to the critical battle faced by SIDS in protecting their  oceans. UNESCO can and should assist in the sharing of knowledge and extend its support to enable SIDS’ to develop  their own scientific research regarding sustainable ocean management. Expeditious sharing of knowledge and research  and the development of local knowledge instil ethical principles at national, regional and international levels which inform  behaviours, policy actions and governance decisions that are desperately needed in order for this particular development  agenda to succeed.
33.6 In Palau’s case, our President’s recent proclamation to close off our Exclusive Economic Zone (EEZ) toward the  creation of a comprehensive marine sanctuary is being driven by a marine sanctuary group that is tasked to gather the  relevant scientific evidence to inform a final decision. It has been argued that important organizations like UNESCO with  an interest in this specific development issue should be fully engaged. We welcome any support and assistance from  UNESCO and other interested UNESCO Member States. In closing, I would like to direct your attention to the most  vulnerable groups: youth, women and children. I would like to draw UNESCO’s attention to our priorities, which are  investment to benefit youth, women and children, better health policies to fight the non-communicable diseases affecting  small island nations, to advocate for access to better living conditions and to provide educational awareness to  encourage participation in national development and implementation processes. Again, thank you for your attention and  on behalf of the President of the Republic of Palau, our Government and our people, please accept our most humble  gratitude to UNESCO for its leadership and commitment to SIDS. Thank you.
34. The President:   Thank you Your Excellency Ms Temengil. Our next speaker is His Excellency, Mr Magele Mauiliu Magele,  Minister of Education, Sports and Culture of Samoa.
35.1 Mr Magele (Samoa):   Mr President, Madam Director-General, Honourable Ministers, Ambassadors, distinguished delegates, ladies  and gentlemen, talofa lava and greetings from the independent State of Samoa. Our country is a small island in the  Pacific with a population of 180,000. Samoa is currently classified as a less developed country but will graduate to  middle-level income status in 2014. We have a vibrant and strong culture and a flourishing economy despite recent  setbacks such as the loss of life and devastation caused by Cyclone Evan in late 2012.
35.2 As a small country, Samoa faces many challenges in achieving an improved quality of life for every citizen, yet  we are making progress. Today I am proud to announce that Samoa has ratified the 2003 Convention for the  Safeguarding of the Intangible Cultural Heritage and I carry with me the instrument of ratification to deposit here at  UNESCO Headquarters. Samoa is known for its cultural strength and vitality, arising from a traditional, community-based  governance system. This system contributes towards the stability of the nation of Samoa, which celebrated its 50th  anniversary of independence in 2012. As such, I would like to thank the Director-General of UNESCO for her kind words  commemorating Samoa’s independence.
35.3 Samoa has been confirmed as the host of the Third International Conference on Small Island Developing States  to be held in our capital Apia in 2014. This attests to our commitment to achieving sustainable development, to working  with our partner SIDS in the Pacific and elsewhere, and to a post-2015 development agenda that reflects the needs and  aspirations of these small island States. Other examples of Samoa’s progress in achieving its key commitments to  education, science, culture and communication and information are the abolition of school fees and introduction of  flexibility measures to ensure every Samoan child can receive a full education from year one to year 11; a commitment to  the integration of technical and vocational education and training (TVET); commencement of the inventorying of our  heritage and development of a representative list of our intangible cultural heritage; capacity building of science,  technology and mathematics teachers from across the country; and establishment of our National Youth Council.
35.4 Some of the remaining challenges that we urgently need to respond to and request the assistance of UNESCO  in addressing are: a shortage of science, technology and mathematics teachers; quality of teachers due to limited  opportunities for professional development during their careers; acquiring the necessary resources and expertise to  ensure the preservation of our cultural sites, artefacts and heritage; ensuring our language stays strong and is not  eroded by external influences; integrating our culture and values within the school curriculum; and tackling non- communicable diseases through sports and education that promote healthy eating and active lifestyles from a young age.  I would like to note and thank the efforts of the Director-General in ensuring a smooth transition regarding the post of  Director of the field office in Apia and the priority placed on confirming the new Director who assumed his duties this  week. Furthermore, I would like to thank UNESCO for the support which it has provided Samoa over many years. We  look forward to continue to work with you, including welcoming UNESCO and all the delegates to our country to  participate in the SIDS Conference in 2014. Faafetai, merci and God bless.  The President resumes the Chair
36. The President:   Thank you Your Excellency. Our next speaker is His Excellency Mr Marcel Loudégué, Minister of National  Education of Central African Republic.
37.1 M. Loudégué (République centrafricaine) :   Monsieur le Président de la Conférence générale, Madame la Présidente du Conseil exécutif, Madame la  Directrice générale de l’UNESCO, Mesdames et Messieurs les ministres et chefs de délégation, honorables délégués,  Mesdames et Messieurs. Monsieur le Président, c’est pour moi un réel plaisir et un grand honneur d’associer ma voix à  celles des orateurs qui m’ont précédé pour vous présenter, au nom du Gouvernement de la République centrafricaine et  de la délégation qui m’accompagne, mes vifs compliments pour votre brillante élection à la présidence de nos travaux.  Ma délégation vous assure de son soutien pour que la présente session de la Conférence générale soit couronnée de  succès.
37.2 Monsieur le Président, honorables délégués, cette nouvelle session ordinaire, qui s’ajoute aux 36 précédentes  qui nous ont réunis dans le passé, témoigne de la continuité de notre Organisation, capable de transcender les  mutations rapides et profondes que le monde n’a cessé de connaître. Elle coïncide avec la fin du présent mandat, et je  saisis l’occasion pour saluer, au nom du Gouvernement de la République centrafricaine, les remarquables qualités de la  Directrice générale, Mme Irina Bokova. Qualités qui lui ont permis, pendant les quatre années écoulées, de diriger  l’Organisation avec efficacité et fermeté, de mener des actions qui ont contribué à en consolider les fondements et à lui  permettre de s’acquitter au mieux de la mission pour laquelle elle a été créée, à savoir favoriser la coopération  intellectuelle et morale pour édifier la paix dans l’esprit des hommes.
37.3 Monsieur le Président, honorables délégués, la paix est une aspiration légitime de notre monde. Pour avoir  connu presque trois décennies de déchirements internes, la République centrafricaine en appelle à la conscience de  chacun de nous pour que désormais la violence politique soit rangée définitivement au musée de l’histoire. L’amère  expérience que nous avons vécue enseigne à tous que la gestion politique consensuelle est la seule voie qui mène vers  le progrès et le développement. C’est pourquoi mon pays, grâce à la solidarité des organisations sous-régionales, telles  que la CEEAC et la CEMAC, déploie des efforts pour rétablir la paix sur l’ensemble du territoire national car les régions  des provinces de la République centrafricaine connaissent encore une vague d’insécurité résultant des actions d’hostilité  des bandes armées qui terrorisent et violentent la population civile, occasionnant des vagues de réfugiés et de  personnes déplacées. C’est ici le lieu pour moi d’exprimer, au nom du Gouvernement de la République centrafricaine,  toute ma gratitude à l’endroit de ces organisations ainsi que de l’ensemble de la communauté internationale pour leur  solidarité à travers les efforts qu’elles déploient en faveur de mon pays pour le rétablissement définitif de la paix.
37.4 Monsieur le Président, l’UNESCO et ses États membres doivent plus que jamais œuvrer davantage pour  assumer la lourde responsabilité morale et éthique qui est celle de transmettre aux générations futures une planète en  paix avec son passé, son présent et son avenir. Cela exige une vision clairvoyante et le partage d’une culture de paix, de  tolérance et de dialogue qui est le sens premier de l’engagement des fondateurs de l’UNESCO. Les bases d’un tel  objectif doivent être jetées à partir de l’école. La République centrafricaine demeure convaincue que l’éducation reste et  restera toujours la priorité de l’UNESCO et qu’elle inspire l’ensemble de son action. Notre Plan national d’action pour  l’Éducation pour tous, renforcé par la Stratégie nationale du Secteur de l’éducation (2008-2020), vise l’amélioration de la  qualité de la formation en réponse aux besoins de la croissance économique et sociale. L’enseignement fondamental  constitue une priorité car l’objectif principal est d’offrir un enseignement de base de qualité à chaque enfant centrafricain.  Aussi, la stratégie adoptée est-elle centrée sur le partenariat, où l’implication de tous est encouragée. Un accent  particulier est mis aujourd’hui, après de dures épreuves dues aux crises militaro-politiques que le pays a connues, avec  leurs corollaires de destructions des édifices scolaires, sur la reconstruction et la rénovation des infrastructures scolaires.
37.5 Monsieur le Président, parmi les mesures prises par la République centrafricaine aux fins de redynamiser son  système éducatif, l’enseignement supérieur et universitaire est pris en compte avec l’introduction aujourd’hui effective du  système Licence, Master, Doctorat (LMD) dans les différentes filières de l’Université de Bangui, qui demeure un outil  indispensable d’appropriation de savoirs, savoir-faire et savoir-être par des cadres de haut niveau formés à la maîtrise  des paramètres de développement du pays. C’est pourquoi nous pensons que le moment est venu d’appuyer les efforts  du Gouvernement centrafricain en renforçant les capacités de cette institution publique unique et en contribuant à la  création d’une nouvelle institution.
37.6 Par ailleurs, la République centrafricaine entend poursuivre et renforcer son partenariat avec l’UNESCO pour  promouvoir des activités culturelles et artistiques menées aux niveaux national, sous-régional et continental.
37.7 Dans le domaine de la communication, un accent particulier est mis sur la valorisation de la presse tant publique  que privée. La République centrafricaine rend un vibrant hommage à l’Organisation à cet égard et espère continuer à  bénéficier de son précieux concours dans ce domaine.
37.8 Monsieur le Président, le dernier défi que l’Organisation est appelée à relever et dont ma délégation voudrait  faire état dans ce bref exposé est celui de la lutte contre la pauvreté dans les pays du Sud par l’éradication de  l’analphabétisme et de l’illettrisme. De l’alphabétisation  dépend en effet le développement de l’aptitude des populations  à participer à la réalisation des objectifs contenus dans les autres défis. C’est fort de ces convictions que mon pays a  envisagé une politique d’alphabétisation en se dotant d’un plan national destiné à améliorer les conditions de vie de la  population en réduisant l’analphabétisme et la pauvreté.
37.9 Monsieur le Président, je voudrais pour terminer réaffirmer la foi de la République centrafricaine dans la  coopération internationale et les idéaux de l’UNESCO, gages d’un avenir meilleur, épris de paix, de tolérance et d’amitié.  Je vous remercie de votre aimable attention.
38. The President:   Thank you Your Excellency. Our next speaker is Mr Imangali Tasmagambetov, Chairman of the National  Commission of Kazakhstan for UNESCO.
(39.1) Mr Tasmagambetov (Kazakhstan) (translation from the Russian):   Distinguished President, distinguished Madam Director-General, ladies and gentlemen, first of all allow me to  congratulate the Chair of the Asia and the Pacific Group, Mr Hao Ping, for his election as President of the 37th session of the  General Conference of UNESCO, and wish him fruitful work and success in this responsible post. I also wish to express  gratitude to the President of the 36th session, Ms Katalin Bogyay, for her effective work while she was in that position.
(39.2) Ladies and gentlemen, the major reforms which are taking place in the Organization give particular significance to  this session of the General Conference. UNESCO is now going through a crucial time in its development, when the original  goals of its activities, aimed at building and strengthening peace in people´s minds at a time of worldwide instability, are more  relevant than ever before. I am sure that all Member States of the Organization support the idea of working together to achieve  peace, stability and development. For plurinational Kazakhstan, which adheres to a policy of peace and tolerance, it is a  matter of great importance to support and disseminate the work of UNESCO in the advancement of intercultural dialogue and  understanding of cultural diversity and tolerance as fundamental factors in successful development and prosperity.
(39.3) As a member of the Executive Board, Kazakhstan, together with other countries, has been actively involved in  preparing UNESCO´s basic programme documents. In this connection, I wish to express my sincere gratitude to Director- General Irina Bokova for her personal contribution to the Organization´s development.
(39.4) Dear colleagues, cooperation with UNESCO has always been a priority area of foreign policy for Kazakhstan. For  over 20 years UNESCO has provided vital support to Kazakhstan in the reform of its national systems of education, science  and culture. By a resolution adopted by the General Assembly of the United Nations at its 67th session, the period from 2013  to 2022 was declared the International Decade for the Rapprochement of Cultures and I wish to call upon the Member States  of UNESCO to take an active part in the realization of projects and measures in this connection. On 23 August this year, with  the participation of the Director-General of UNESCO, Irina Bokova, an international forum was held in Astana to mark the  official beginning of the International Decade for the Rapprochement of Cultures. Participants included leaders of international  organizations and prominent social and political figures from around the world. The outcome of that forum in turn underlined  the importance of the international community’s efforts to promote a culture of peace and the ideas of new humanism in  modern society, particularly in the minds of young people.
(39.5) The International Forum on the Great Silk Road was held in Almaty on 14-16 October of this year, bringing together  experts from 20 countries. In the framework of the event, the official opening and presentation of the UNESCO online platform  also took place.
(39.6) Mr President, in the name of Kazakhstan, I would like to express my support for the draft medium-term strategy,  programme and budget of UNESCO for the coming period, submitted for consideration by the General Conference. We  believe that, thanks to the persistent and painstaking efforts of the Executive Board, a compromise was reached and these  complex documents, which enable UNESCO to achieve a new level of effectiveness, are submitted for your consideration.
(39.7) I also wish to add my voice to those of my colleagues who have repeatedly emphasized the importance of setting  concrete priorities for improving the effectiveness of UNESCO´s activities in its fields of competence. This is particularly  important regarding the drafting of the agenda for the post-2015 period. As an authoritative organ of international cooperation,  UNESCO must keep pace with new trends in international politics and global transformation. In this connection I am pleased to  observe that this aspect has been taken into due consideration in the Organization´s new medium-term strategy.
(39.8) Distinguished Director-General, ladies and gentlemen, I wish to conclude my statement by emphasizing that the  Government of Kazakhstan and the National Commission are committed to further all-round strengthening and expansion of  cooperation with UNESCO and its Member States in the interest of peace and prosperity. Thank you for your attention.
40. The President:   Thank you Your Excellency. Our next speaker is His Excellency Mr Karganbek Samakov, Member of Parliament  of Kyrgyzstan.
(41.1) Mr Samakov (Kyrgyzstan) (translation from the Russian):   Distinguished President of the General Conference, distinguished ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the Kyrgyz  Republic I am pleased to greet the participants in the 37th session of the General Conference of UNESCO.
(41.2) The changes taking place in the modern world and its growing diversity require the strengthening of the Organization  so that it can continue to play a central role in ensuring sustainable development of modern society through active and  innovative cooperation in the area of its mandate on the basis of real participation by all Member States of UNESCO. The goal  may also be achieved through reform of the Organization, which must take place in accordance with the goals and principles  of its Constitution. In this regard, we are grateful to Director-General Irina Bokova for her purposeful work in implementing  reforms of the Organization in respect of its programmes and structure, regardless of financial difficulties.
(41.3) Ladies and gentlemen, it is well known that educational issues play a major part in the work of laying the foundations  of lasting peace and sustainable development. In a world where conflicts are taking place, issues relating to the development  of education in the interest of peace and social consolidation are still very important. In 2012, aware of the need to seek  solutions to conflict-related problems in the education system, the Kyrgyz Republic held an international forum entitled  “Learning to Live Together”, whose outcome was the founding of the regional resource centre on education for peace. The  centre´s basic mission is to contribute to social consolidation for the preservation of peace in the region based on diversity  through education.
(41.4) The Kyrgyz Republic devotes much attention to the development of quality education for young children through the  establishment and development of kindergartens in summer pastures. These are among the flexible and effective means of  educating and socializing children highly recommended in mountainous areas. The Kyrgyz Republic supports the resolution on  the creation of the online platform initiated by the Republic of Kazakhstan, which will play an important part in preserving and  disseminating the knowledge of the Great Silk Road accumulated over many years by UNESCO and its Member States. We  welcome the Director-General´s initiative to establish the centre for social transformation and intercultural dialogue. We hope  that, accumulating UNESCO´s long experience in that area, the centre will contribute to the task of building an open,  accessible and equal society.
(41.5) Ladies and gentlemen, water is now the most important strategic resource for “green” sustainable growth in  Kyrgyzstan. Its role is growing significantly in relation to one of the major challenges to sustainable development, global  climate change, which is already having a negative impact in our region, especially on the situation of water resources.  According to experts´ preliminary forecasting, if urgent measures are not taken, by 2100 there will be practically no glaciers or  snowfields  in the country´s territory. Their meltwater is the essential source of water feeding rivers in the Central Asian region.  We therefore call on all countries to continue the dialogue begun among the numerous stakeholders, during the International  Year of Water Cooperation, on the subject of cooperation in the area of water resources as the basis of sustainable  development.
(41.6) Ladies and gentlemen, the diversity of original cultures is what gives our world its diversity. We support and  emphasize the importance of UNESCO´s measures to preserve cultural heritage. In today´s world, cultural resources are an  important factor in the social and economic development of society and contribute immeasurably to sustainable development  in many countries. At the same time, we wish to emphasize the responsibility of UNESCO in connection with the standard- setting instruments adopted in the area of culture. We are concerned at the increasingly politicized approach to the adoption of  decisions in relation to the lists established in the context of UNESCO conventions relating to culture.
(41.7) In concluding my statement, I wish to place particular emphasis on the need for the combined efforts of all Member  States firmly and determinedly to move forward to overcome threats and challenges to the building of a truly equitable world.  My Government expresses its full readiness for constructive, effective international cooperation in the context of UNESCO. I  wish to conclude my statement with the words of our great epic hero Manas:
303  Жараткандан бүткөнбүз Төгөрөктүн төрт бурчун  Төрт айланта кутконбуз  Оомал-төкмөлүү заманда  Ынтымак менен түткөнбүз  Allow me also to say this in Russian:  Все мы созданы Творцом,  Мы познали четыре части света,  В годы сомнений и перемен  Мы выжили, благодаря дружбе.  We were all made by the Creator   We have learnt the four parts of the world  During the uncertainty and the changes   We survived thanks to friendship.  Thank you for your attention.  Visit by His Excellency Mr Idriss Deby Itno, President of Chad  Visite de Son Excellence M. Idriss Deby Itno, Président du Tchad   Visita del Excmo. Sr Idriss Deby Itno, Presidente del Chad   Визит Его Превосходительства г-на Идрисса Деби Итно, Президента Чада     زيارة فخامة رئيس تشاد، السيد إدريس ديبي إتنو 乍得总统伊德里斯·代比·伊特诺先生阁下来访  His Excellency Mr Idriss Deby Itno, President of Chad, enters Room I and is escorted to his place
42. The President:   Your Excellency, Mr President Idriss Deby Itno, Madam Chair of the Executive Board, Madam Director-General,  Excellencies, ladies and gentlemen, it is an honour to welcome to UNESCO His Excellency, Mr Idriss Deby Itno. Before  becoming President of Chad, Mr Deby Itno had a stellar career as a military commander. He studied at the officers’  school in N’Djamena, as well as at the École Militaire in Paris, across the street from this building. Upon returning to  Chad, he was appointed commander-in-chief of the army, and the chief military advisor to the Presidency. He assumed  the office of the President of Chad 23 years ago. Mr Idriss Deby Itno plays a decisive role in the United Nations efforts to  bring stability and prosperity to the Sahel region. This was underlined by the Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon, during his  recent visit to Chad. We wish him the best of success in this regard. We are pleased to welcome you to UNESCO, Your  Excellency. You have the floor.
43.1 M. Idriss Deby Itno (Président du Tchad) :   Monsieur le Président de la Conférence générale, Madame la Présidente du Conseil exécutif, Madame la  Directrice générale de l’UNESCO, Mesdames et Messieurs les chefs de délégation, Mesdames et Messieurs les  ambassadeurs représentant des organisations internationales, distingués invités, Mesdames et Messieurs, je voudrais  tout d’abord présenter mes vives et chaleureuses félicitations à M. Hao Ping, Président de la Conférence générale, pour  sa brillante élection à la tête de la 37e session, et l’assurer du soutien du Tchad durant tout son mandat. Mes félicitations  s’adressent également à la Présidente sortante de la Conférence générale, Mme Katalin Bogyay, à la Présidente du  Conseil exécutif, Mme Alissandra Cummins, et à la Directrice générale de l’Organisation des Nations Unies pour  l’éducation, la science et la culture, Mme Irina Bokova, pour la qualité du travail accompli tout au long de l’exercice  biennal qui s’achève. Avant de poursuivre mon propos, permettez-moi d’exprimer, au nom du peuple tchadien, du  gouvernement et en mon nom propre ma sincère compassion pour le peuple des îles philippines qui vient de subir le  dramatique passage d’un typhon qui a causé des milliers de morts.
43.2 Monsieur le Président, depuis le 19 décembre 1960, date de l’adhésion de notre pays à cette prestigieuse  Organisation, c’est la première fois que le Tchad participe à une Conférence générale à un si haut niveau. Notre  présence à ces assises témoigne de l’intérêt que porte notre pays à l’UNESCO et à ses nobles objectifs. Monsieur le  Président, le Tchad entend participer pleinement aux activités de notre organisation commune, ce qui motive sa  candidature au Conseil exécutif et à certains organes consultatifs de l’UNESCO. C’est également dans cet esprit qu’il a  apporté sa modeste contribution au Fonds d’urgence multidonateurs, à hauteur d’un million de dollars.
43.3 Mesdames, Messieurs, nous sommes conscients que l’échéance fixée par l’Assemblée générale des Nations  Unies en 2000 pour l’atteinte des Objectifs du Millénaire pour le développement (OMD) et de l’Éducation pour tous (EPT)  à l’horizon 2015 arrive bientôt à son terme. Si des progrès importants ont été enregistrés dans certains pays, ce n’est  pas le cas dans d’autres qui, malheureusement, ne seront pas en mesure d’atteindre certains objectifs relevant des  domaines de compétence de l’UNESCO en raison d’un déficit de financement.
43.4 En ce qui concerne le Tchad, nous avons prescrit, dans les actions du gouvernement, le caractère prioritaire de  l’éducation et avons souscrit à tous les engagements internationaux en la matière. Il s’agit notamment d’atteindre, à  l’horizon 2015, les Objectifs du Millénaire pour le développement (OMD) et ceux de l’Éducation pour tous (EPT). Des  moyens humains, matériels et financiers importants ont été mobilisés au profit du système éducatif. C’est ainsi que de  nombreuses réalisations allant dans le sens de la généralisation de l’éducation de qualité ont été opérées dans les  domaines des infrastructures à tous les niveaux d’enseignement, des équipements et moyens logistiques, de la  formation des enseignants, de la réforme des programmes, de la dotation en manuels scolaires et autres matériels
304  didactiques. Le système éducatif a enregistré une expansion rapide ces dernières années. Ainsi, les effectifs scolaires  ont plus que triplé et un accent particulier a été mis sur la scolarisation des filles. Cependant, ces progrès quantitatifs  appréciables sont contrariés par la qualité de l’éducation dont les indicateurs de rendement ne cessent de se dégrader.  Face à cette contreperformance, le gouvernement a engagé la réforme de l’éducation dans le cadre de la Renaissance  de l’école tchadienne, sur la base de la loi portant orientation du système éducatif et des recommandations pertinentes  du Forum national de réflexion sur le système éducatif. Cette réforme, engagée selon une vision holistique de l’éducation,  couvre tous les secteurs, du préscolaire au supérieur.
43.5 Mesdames et Messieurs, l’Agenda post-2015 devra prendre en compte les acquis des Objectifs du Millénaire  pour le développement, leurs forces et faiblesses ainsi que leur extension à de nouveaux secteurs tels que la science, la  technologie, la recherche, la culture, la communication, l’information, bref, le développement durable dans un monde  plus juste et plus prospère, exempt de pauvreté et de violence.
43.6 Aux défis de développement, s’ajoutent des défis sécuritaires. En sa qualité d’organisation chargée d’inculquer  la culture de la paix dans l’esprit des hommes, l’UNESCO devra inscrire en bonne place dans son Agenda post-2015 les  éléments indispensables à l’instauration d’un monde de stabilité, de développement, de démocratie et de compréhension  mutuelle entre les peuples. Pour sa part, le Tchad est très attentif à toutes les situations de crise en Afrique et dans le  monde et participe, aux côtés de la communauté internationale dans le cadre des Nations Unies, au maintien de la paix  dans plusieurs pays.
43.7 Par ailleurs, mon pays porte un intérêt particulier à la préservation du patrimoine mondial. C’est pourquoi, nous  avons fermement condamné la destruction par les djihadistes du Musée de Tombouctou qui constitue le monument par  excellence des richesses culturelles et historiques du Mali et un fleuron du patrimoine de toute l’humanité. Aussi, le  Tchad a-t-il déjà fait inscrire le lac Ounianga sur la Liste du patrimoine mondial de l’UNESCO et deux autres dossiers  sont en préparation : il s’agit du Guelta d’Archeï et du Parc national de Zakouma. Notre pays a en effet eu l’honneur  d’accueillir du 30 mars au 2 avril 2012, à Ndjamena, la Directrice générale de l’UNESCO. Durant son séjour au Tchad,  Mme Irina Bokova a visité le lac Tchad pour marquer tout l’intérêt qu’elle accorde à cet écosystème menacé de  disparition et dont le projet de sauvetage a fait l’objet, ces dernières années, de nombreuses rencontres internationales  de haut niveau. Qu’elle en soit remerciée. Actuellement, plusieurs dizaines de millions de personnes dépendent  directement ou indirectement du lac Tchad.
43.8 Monsieur le Président, la présence du Tchad à la 37e session de la Conférence générale de notre Organisation  est consécutive à la découverte de Toumaï, « espoir de vie », le plus lointain ancêtre de l’homme, le 19 juillet 2001, dans  le Djourab, à 800 km au nord de Ndjamena. La découverte de cet hominidé âgé de sept millions d’années fait du Tchad  le « berceau de l’humanité ». C’est avec un grand plaisir que nous offrons à l’UNESCO une réplique du crâne de Toumaï   en tant que bien commun et ancêtre de l’humanité.
43.9 Je vous convie donc humblement, petits-fils de Toumaï, à assister tout à l’heure à la cérémonie de remise de  cet hominidé. Merci.
44. The President:   Thank you Your Excellency. Ladies and gentlemen, please remain seated while the President of Chad and his  entourage leave the room.  His Excellency Mr Idriss Deby Itno, President of Chad, is escorted from the room  General policy debate (continued)  Débat de politique générale (suite)  Debate de política general (continuación)  Обсуждение вопросов общей политики (продолжение)  جتابع)مناقشة السياسة العامة    总政策辩论（续）
45. The President:   Thank you ladies and gentlemen. We now give the floor to our last speaker, His Excellency Mr Luis Lillo,  Ambassador and Director of Multilateral Politics at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Chile.
(46.1) Mr Lillo (Chile) (translation from the Spanish):   Mr President of the General Conference, Madam Chair of the Executive Board, Madam Director-General, heads of  delegations, ambassadors, delegates, ladies and gentlemen: first, I should like to express the feelings of sorrow, the  condolences and the solidarity of the Government of Chile with the people of the Philippines for the tragedy that has recently  devastated that country.
(46.2) Mr. President: allow me to congratulate you on your election as head of this General Conference. We are convinced  that with your experience and wise guidance, we will successfully complete the tasks of this session, and the delegation of  Chile assures you of its broadest cooperation.
(46.3) We should also like to congratulate the Director-General, Irina Bokova, on being chosen by the Executive Board to  continue leading our Organization for the next four years. We wish her great success and offer her our full cooperation in this  difficult task.
(46.4) The 37th session of the General Conference will undoubtedly be one of the most important in recent years in view of  the enormous challenge of dealing with the Organization’s serious financial crisis, evaluating its impact and drawing  conclusions from the achievements as well as the errors. Managing the crisis has required extraordinary efforts on the part of  the Secretariat and its staff, which we thank and congratulate. The crisis is so broad that it has even reached the governing  bodies of this Organization; hence the importance of making progress in the sphere of governance and improvement of the  working methods of those bodies in order to strengthen their effectiveness and efficiency.
(46.5) For the first time, we are adopting a Medium-Term Strategy for a period of eight years that will guide UNESCO’s  work. It is perhaps a long period for the Medium-Term Strategy but it is vital to provide UNESCO with a navigation chart  including an adequate time frame for planning and developing sound programmes. A budget should also be adopted, this time  for four years, that will provide operational support for the Medium-Term Strategy. While we support a budget ceiling of $653  million, it appears to us pertinent and realistic to define the programme priorities with the awareness that the resources  available for the next biennium will probably be only $507 million.
(46.6) The indefinite continuation of the crisis will affect seriously UNESCO’s capacity to act, which impels us to move  forward, as soon as possible and comprehensively, with the reform process. The survival and success of UNESCO is related  directly to its capacity to adapt both to the financial situation and to the new challenges of a world changing at a dizzying  speed. We must identify clearly the areas in which UNESCO possesses a comparative advantage with respect  to the sister  organizations of the United Nations system and other international institutions, determine what we do better than the others  and how to strengthen and add value to those areas. In addition, clarity is needed with regard to areas in which we overlap,  those in which we are not efficient and those in which we do not have a clear impact, and we must take the steps, sometimes  painful, that are necessary.
(46.7) The reform process must strive to establish a more reasonable balance between programme resources and staff  costs. It must also reverse the imbalance in post assignments since a large majority of staff is based in Paris in comparison  with a small number assigned to other offices. The field network must be the visible face of the Organization, which means that  UNESCO must ensure that its regional offices have adequate human and financial resources for efficient programme  execution.
(46.8) UNESCO must reclaim its role as the major international reference in education, science and culture. To do so, it  must develop an offer attractive to all its Member States, one which makes the least developed countries a basic priority while  also providing programmes for all its members. In this connection, we urge UNESCO to step up its efforts to work and  cooperate with middle-income economies, as is the case for a growing number of countries in Latin America. But, above all,  UNESCO must regain the leadership status that it deserves, play a key role in international efforts aimed at universal  achievement of one of the most important Millennium Development Goals, education for all, and have a significant role in the  process following the adoption of the post-2015 development agenda.
(46.9) The commitment of Chile to the work of UNESCO is profound and active. We are a member of the Executive Board  and the Intergovernmental Oceanographic Commission and we are part of the International Coordinating Council of the  Programme on Man and the Biosphere, with a total of ten reserves on our territory. We are a member of the International  Hydrological Programme, the only United Nations intergovernmental programme dedicated to water research, water resources  and education.
(46.10)  Since 1980 Chile has been a party to the Convention for the Protection of the World Cultural and Natural Heritage  and it has five sites inscribed on the World Heritage List. I cannot fail to mention the candidacy of Qhapac Ñan, Andean Road  System, which has brought together Argentina, the Plurinational State of Bolivia, Colombia, Ecuador, Peru and Chile in one of  the most ambitious serial presentations in the history of the Organization, and for which we have had constant support from  the World Heritage Committee. We are also party to other conventions, such as the Convention for the Safeguarding of the  Intangible Cultural Heritage, and we have submitted the priority dossier for the inscription of the Bailes Chinos as a traditional  syncretic performance in the north of our country. In addition, Chile is party to the Convention on the Protection and Promotion  of the Diversity of Cultural Expressions and the Convention for the Protection of Cultural Property in the Event of Armed  Conflict, and it has inscribed in the Memory of the World Register the human rights archives of Chile; the collections of printed  Chilean popular poetry: Lira popular; and the Jesuits of America collection.
(46.11) In respect of our public policy, the Government of Chile, with the valuable support of civil society and the  international community, was actively involved in the reconstruction of the country after the devastating earthquake that  destroyed a large part of our territory in February 2010, with a special focus on damaged schools and the cultural heritage.
(46.12) The Government has placed at the centre of its priorities the development of education, culture and science, fields  that are essential to the full realization of the individual, based on an inclusive approach that provides greater equality of  opportunity and greater social mobility. Improving coverage, access, quality and funding in the field of education is today a  transversal objective and the centre of the policy debate in Chile, which has given rise to projects and initiatives in many areas
307  for all levels, from preschool to higher education. Independent systems of university accreditation, a department of education  quality assurance and an education authority are some of the advances made in improving our standards. Lastly, Mr President,  we have today an opportunity to redefine the role of UNESCO, both internally and in relation to other international  organizations, and we believe that it is time for all Member States to make a determined effort to fulfil their obligation to  preserve the basic mission of the Organization through the challenge of full achievement of the Millennium Development Goals  and the launching of the post-2015 development agenda process, from which UNESCO cannot afford to be absent. Thank you,  Mr President.
47. The President:   Thank you ladies and gentlemen. This concludes our work for this morning. The plenary will reconvene at 3 p.m.,  when we will hear the remaining national statements and the Director-General’s reply to the General Policy Debate. The  General Conference will also hear a report from the Chairperson of the Education Commission on item 6.5 – Proposals  for revision of statutes of education-related category 1 institutes. I wish you a pleasant lunch. This meeting is now  adjourned.  The meeting rose at 1.00 p.m.  La séance est levée à 13 h 00  Se levanta la sesión a las 13.00  Заседание закрывается в 13.00  الظهر بعد ١,٠٠ الساعة يف اسلسة رفعت   会议于 13 时结束