64  Report on the work of the General Committee   Rapport sur les travaux du Bureau de la Conférence    Informe sobre las labores de la Mesa de la Conferencia  Доклад Президиума о работе   مكتب المؤتمر العامتقرير عن أعمال     总务委员会的工作报告
1. The President:   Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. I declare open the fourth plenary meeting of the General Conference.  This afternoon, we will continue with the Leaders’ Forum. Before we start, however, I would like to briefly report on the  work of the General Committee, which held its first meeting this morning. I will ask the Secretary of the General  Conference to summarize the recommendations of the General Committee. Mr Millward, you have the floor.
2.1 The Secretary:    Thank you, Mr President. The General Committee held its first meeting this morning at 8.45 and I am pleased to  present its recommendations to the plenary.
2.2 The General Committee examined the document on the organization of the work of the 37th session of the  General Conference, document 37 C/2 Prov. Rev., and endorsed the recommendations of the Executive Board on the  organizational matters. Moreover, the General Committee recommended for adoption by the plenary the proposal from  the Executive Board concerning the examination of item 4.2 “Consideration and adoption of the Draft Programme and  Budget for 2014-2017” (37 C/5). In particular, the Executive Board has recommended that the Joint Meeting of  Commissions agree on the modalities of examination by the different commissions of this item with a view to adopting a  common approach by all commissions as per 192 EX/Decision 23. The Joint Meeting of Commissions would then meet  in a few minutes in Room II and examine item 4.2, limited to those parts of document 37 C/6 and 37 C/6 Addendum and  Corrigendum proposing shifts in the programme from one major programme to another.
2.3 In addition, the General Committee has agreed to recommend to the plenary that item 7.1 “Amendments to the  Rules of Procedure of the General Conference and to the Regulations for the general classification of the various  categories of meetings convened by UNESCO” be also examined by the APX Commission in addition to the Legal  Committee to which this item was already attributed. Thank you, Mr President.
3.1 The President:    Thank you, Mr Millward. May I take it that the General Conference endorses the recommendations made by the  General Committee? I see no objection. It is so decided.
3.2 I take the occasion to remind the members of the General Committee that the next meeting will take place on  Friday, 8 November at 9 a.m. in Room X.  Leaders’ Forum: UNESCO mobilizing for and contributing to the post-2015 agenda through education, the  sciences, culture and communication and information (continued)  Forum des dirigeants : Mobilisation et contribution de l’UNESCO à l’agenda post-2015 par le biais de  l’éducation, des sciences, de la culture, de la communication et de l’information (suite)  Foro de dirigentes: Movilización y contribución de la UNESCO para la agenda para el desarrollo después de
4. The President:    We will now continue our very interesting discussion in the framework of the Leaders’ Forum. I have the  pleasure to introduce a video message by Ms Phumzile Mlambo-Ngcuka, Executive Director of the United Nations Entity  for Gender Equality and the Empowerment of Women (UN Women).
5. Ms Mlambo-Ngcuka (Executive Director of UN WOMEN):   Thanks to you all. I am Phumzile Mlambo-Ngcuka, the Executive Director of UN Women. Education has opened  our eyes to possibilities. But for me, these possibilities have also brought responsibility: the responsibility to pave the way  for the next generation. Education provides the foundation for sustainable democracy, peace and development. Today, I  must thank my partner and sister, Ms Irina Bokova. Irina, I thank you for bringing us together and I thank you for your  tireless efforts working towards education for all. I cannot stress enough the importance of girls’ and women’s education  as the key building block for women’s empowerment and for nation-building. That is why the collaboration between UN  Women and UNESCO is such an organic one, and so critical in achieving gender equality. All of us are looking ahead to  how we can accelerate the achievement of the Millennium Development Goals (MDGs) and shape the post-2015  development framework. We must ensure a stand-alone goal on gender equality and we must ensure that education  figures centrally, both as a right in itself and as an enabler of wider progress. Universal quality and gendered public  education. Let us work together to achieve this. Let us work together to achieve education for all. I send you my best  wishes for a successful Forum and I thank you.
6. The President:   I would like to thank Ms Mlambo-Ngcuka for her words. And now, I will hand over to Mr Shashi Tharoor, India’s  Minister of State for Human Resources Development and Mr Steven Cole, Senior Presenter at Al-Jazeera, who will  continue moderating our discussions this afternoon. Please.
7. The Moderator (Mr Cole):   Thank you, Mr President. Welcome back everyone from lunch. This afternoon, we are going to talk about what  happened this morning and share our reactions to this morning’s speeches. I would like you during your statements to  speak more from the heart than from your notes, if that is at all possible, and I am sure that it will be. If you do want to  speak at great length, think again. Instead, ministers wishing to circulate a longer statement or a written contribution are  very welcome to send their text to the Secretariat, to c.descombris@unesco.org. I can provide the website address if you  want it, but it is in your information, I am sure. And such material will then be posted on the Forum’s website. Also, if you  do want to be heard after the ministers have spoken, please raise your country name plate and I will do my best to put  my glasses on for those of you at the back of the room to recognize which countries wish to speak. Those are the nuts  and bolts. Let us kick off straight away with Norway, welcoming Mr Hans Brattskar, Deputy Minister of Foreign Affairs.  Hans, please take the floor.
8. Mr Brattskar (Norway):   Thank you so much, Excellencies, ladies and gentlemen. Let me just first thank everybody who made valuable  contributions earlier today on this important agenda and say that it is particularly a pleasure for me to be able to  represent a new Norwegian Government in this debate at UNESCO’s Leaders’ Forum.
8.1 As a point of departure, I would like to remind us all that the world has seen remarkable improvements in living  standards, education, and health for some years now. The Millennium Development Goals (MDGs) have helped mobilize  global action to lift more than half a billion people out of extreme poverty. Our first ambition, however, should be to fulfil  all MDGs as soon as possible, and this will be a good starting point as we look at new development goals and ambitions.  Norway believes that the new agenda should include goals related to health, women’s rights, gender equality, and global  education. A lot has been achieved when it comes to saving children and mothers but further action is needed. Women  represent nearly two thirds of the world’s illiterate and over 30 million girls are still deprived of education around the world.  We need to prioritize girls’ and women’s right to education in developing countries. Participation of men and women on  an equal footing is not just a question of human rights but also an important factor in economic development and  prosperity. We have certainly seen this in Norway, where a steady increase of women in our work force has made a very  important contribution to social development as well as economic growth.
8.2 The post-2015 goals should also make a reference to access to energy, because this is essential to all kinds of  development. We need to focus on more renewable energy, energy efficiency and development of new green  technologies. We must make further significant efforts towards attaining the MDGs and the education for all goals. And  Norway will maintain its high level of funding for educational purposes.
8.3 We strongly encourage consolidated efforts in the field of education both within the United Nations family,  UNESCO and UNICEF being the most important, and the existing initiatives such as the Global Education First Initiative  (GEFI) and the Global Partnership for Education (GPE). By pulling together and in the same direction we can build a  solid platform for a balanced and coherent post-2015 education goal. We should focus on the most marginalized and  excluded groups and do our utmost to reach out to children who are deprived of fundamental human rights. Education is  not only a right and a goal in itself, it is a vital vehicle for attaining goals in almost any other sector of society. In the  words of the United Nations Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon, “when we put education first, we can reduce poverty and  hunger, end wasted potential and look forward to stronger and better societies for all”. Norway welcomes the fact that the  United Nations High-level Panel on the Post-2015 Development Agenda was so clear on the issue of achieving a  universal and integrated global development goal on education. All the consultations, conferences, research projects and  dialogues that have discussed new development goals have agreed on this issue. Education must be our primary focus  in the quest for sustainable development.
8.4 Norway seeks to work closely with our partner countries, fellow donors, multilateral agencies and non-State  actors to make certain that the post-2015 education agenda remains at the forefront of our work. UNESCO has a crucial  role in moving this agenda forward and we should always remember that education for all goals even preceded the  Millennium Development Goals. Needless to say, UNESCO’s unique and specific normative work within education,  culture, science and communication and information is a truly valuable input to the post-2015 agenda. Norway is ready to  assume its share of the common international responsibility and will support initiatives on energy, health, education and  gender equality as key building blocks for the post-2015 framework. We shall offer our full support to the Secretary- General and his good offices to help us drive the process forward towards a new set of internationally agreed goals in
2015. Many thanks for your attention.
9. The Moderator (Mr Cole):   Thank you, Deputy Minister, for those messages of support for UNESCO. UNESCO will be leading the charge  but it needs all of you with it, with all your ideas for 2015. This is why we are here this afternoon; let us not forget that.  Indeed, what sort of education are we talking about? One of the most important matters discussed this morning, in my  view, was vocational training, especially bearing in mind the demographics in most of the countries represented here,  with very young populations and very high levels of unemployment, and vocational education would seem to me to take  on an increasing importance. Thank you to Norway and Deputy Minister Hans Brattskar. Let us move on to Mongolia,  because I know that the representative of Mongolia has to leave. Mr Bold, Minister for Foreign Affairs and Chairperson of  the Mongolian National Commission for UNESCO, you have the floor.
10.1 Mr Bold (Mongolia):   Thank you, Mr Moderator. Your Excellencies, distinguished delegates, as the 2015 target date for achieving the  Millennium Development Goals approaches, there are a growing number of processes, preparatory activities and  debates on what the post-2015 agenda will look like. A new post-2015 era demands a new vision and responsive  framework. UNESCO is contributing to framing the post-2015 development agenda in many ways. In this respect, I wish  to underline that today’s Leaders’ Forum under the theme “UNESCO mobilizing for and contributing to the post-2015  agenda through education, the sciences, culture and communication and information” is indeed another opportunity to  formulate innovative messages and guidance to contribute to the post-2015 development agenda within the UNESCO  mandate. The Government of Mongolia strongly believes that literacy is a fundamental right and essential monitor for  human development. Just a moment ago, we attended the special lunch session on this issue, which was addressed by  many participants. The battle of literacy is not over and in a digital world it is a very challenging and very exciting issue  we have to deal with.
10.2 As the initiator of the United Nations Literacy Decade, Mongolia has been active in supporting UNESCO in its  role as coordinating agency of the Decade throughout. The United Nations Literacy Decade was marked by significant  progress. We witnessed a rise in the global adult literacy rate and a fall in the numbers of the illiterate population  worldwide. However, as made clear in the final evaluation of the implementation of the international plan of action of the  United Nations Literacy Decade, we are not there yet. Millions of primary school age children are out of school today.  Millions of children are in school but are failing to learn the basics. Millions of women and men with poor literacy skills  face problems in their lives. Much stronger political commitment and collective effort are needed to scale up literacy,  improve the quality of education for children and adolescents and provide lifelong learning opportunities especially for  girls, women and those belonging to marginalized groups.
10.3 Taking this opportunity, I am pleased to inform you that a few days ago, on 31 October, the Third Committee of  the 68th session of the United Nations General Assembly unanimously approved the resolution entitled “Literacy for Life:  Shaping Future Agendas”. Initiated by Mongolia and co-sponsored by 85 United Nations Member States. The resolution  recognized the importance of continuing the implementation of measures to eliminate illiteracy worldwide. It also  encourages Member States to further utilize innovative information and communication technology and solutions to  address the needs of marginalized groups, including girls and persons with disabilities among others. We believe that  UNESCO should continue to play its catalytic and coordinating role at a global level to advance the literacy agenda to  and beyond 2015 and therefore support the proposal to create a global multi-stakeholder partnership in support of  national efforts to accelerate progress towards attainment of the unfinished agenda.
10.4 And briefly, the second issue we wished to draw your attention to is related to education for democracy. As you  all know, Mongolia has held the Presidency of the Community of Democracies for the past two years. During our term,  we have identified education for democracy as our primary focus. We have led a number of initiatives to advance  thinking on education for democracy, including expert seminars and ministerial meetings and the sponsorship and  ultimate passing of a United Nations General Assembly resolution on education for democracy, which was adopted  unanimously. In addition to these high-level activities, we have strived to make a contribution to the practical work of  implementing education for democracy and we have identified curriculum development as an area where there is a need  and an opportunity to make such a contribution.
10.5 Just to clarify this, there are many democracy-related curricula in textbooks already. However, they tend to focus  heavily on education about democracy, rather than education for democracy, because most schools around the world  remain quite traditional in their approach. Students have a limited opportunity to learn to think and act democratically.  They are socialized to behave passively and compassionately. How, then, do we expect them to engage in public life as  democratic citizens after graduation? To encourage active democratic citizenship and cultivate the kind of learning and  development which leads to it, it is necessary to look at a deeper and more experiential kind of learning. We encourage  student-centred education reforms that are inherently democratic in their approach to pedagogy, assessment and other  aspects of the educational experience. In short, the framework development assistance of Canadian colleagues reflects  democratic values and principles at every opportunity and is compatible with existing educational reform agendas  worldwide. It provides guidance on how to educate for democracy, not just what to teach. In spite of its limited distribution,  the framework has received very positive feedback. Based on this feedback, we think the framework has the potential to  make an excellent contribution to advancing education for democracy in many countries, if it can be taken into this  broader audience. And the support and cooperation of UNESCO and fellow members would be invaluable with regard to  increasing access to the document and thereby unlocking its potential for further impact in education systems around the  world. Thank you very much, Mr Moderator.
11. The Moderator (Mr Cole):   Thank you very much, Mongolia. Thank you for your points, all well made. I will call on Denmark next and after  Denmark, Italy. I now call on Ms Christine Antorini, Minister of Education of Denmark.
12.1 Ms Antorini (Denmark):   Thank you. In Denmark we think, like in Norway, that the MDG agenda, in spite of some progress, is still  unfinished business. We all need to commit ourselves to doing more to close the gaps in relation to education, and  gender equality and women’s rights, two areas to which Denmark pays particular attention. We agree that the post-2015  development agenda should resolve – in one single universal framework, with one set of goals that can unite the world in  a strong effort – to eradicate extreme poverty, promote sustainable development and to ensure a life in dignity for all.
12.2 Education is a basic right for all children, also for those living in fragile States. The importance of education in  the fight against poverty and for sustainable development is well documented and recognized. UNESCO and its Member
67  States have a key role to play in ensuring the right high-profile and action-oriented education goal for the post-2015  development agenda. There is no doubt in our mind that this should be the organization’s number one priority. Ensuring  quality education and learning for all is a key to the development of our communities but also a very complex challenge  for all of us. This is why international inspiration, cooperation, benchmarking and support are also important. In Denmark  we have promoted an idea of quality education for the twenty-first century by embracing knowledge and skills, personal  and social competences and learning for creativity, innovation and democratic citizenship. And vocational training is an  integrated part of that, developed together with the social partners as discussed earlier today.
12.3 We work closely with other Nordic countries, trying to strengthen and renew our educational traditions in order to  improve quality and step up resources. Well-qualified teachers are crucial in this regard, but quality is also a question of  relevance and motivation. We welcome the Global Education First Initiative (GEFI) taken by the United Nations  Secretary-General and its focus on the content and global context of education. We strongly support the aim of fostering  global citizenship. We need to educate our children, youth and adults to live in the world of today and in dialogue and  shared responsibility to shape the world of tomorrow. Thank you.
13. The Moderator (Mr Cole):   Thank you very much, Minister. I now call on Mr Massimo Bray, Minister for Cultural Heritage and Tourism of  Italy. Welcome, Minister.
14.1 M. Bray (Italie) :    Mesdames et Messieurs, je suis heureux de participer à la 37e Conférence générale de l’UNESCO, et tout  particulièrement de prendre la parole dans le cadre de ce Forum qui, j’en suis certain, apportera une contribution  précieuse au programme pour l’après-2015 en ce qui concerne les domaines de compétences de l’UNESCO.
14.2 La culture représente un élément fondamental du développement et de la croissance durables. C’est dans cette  direction que l’Italie souhaite orienter sa politique culturelle et ses programmes. Sur le plan national, mon gouvernement  vient justement d’approuver une série de mesures qui placent la culture au cœur de la politique de croissance pour les  années à venir, tel un moteur du développement durable du pays ; ce qui est d’ailleurs aussi une priorité de l’UNESCO.  Sur le plan international, notre action vise à renforcer le rôle de la culture sur plusieurs fronts qui me paraissent  essentiels : le partage des informations et des expériences, l’accomplissement des objectifs communs, la promotion du  dialogue dans le respect de la diversité culturelle – leviers de compréhension mutuelle, de respect réciproque et de paix.
14.3 L’Italie, où les ressources intellectuelles, le patrimoine culturel, la créativité, l’innovation et les talents  représentent depuis des siècles une ressource fondamentale, a l’intention d’exploiter ces richesses en tant que moteurs  de développement et de l’idée de communauté dont nous avons tous, même en Europe, un besoin urgent. Dans un  monde globalisé, caractérisé par l’interdépendance des marchés et par la révolution numérique, il est évident que culture  et économie sont étroitement liées. Si les ressources culturelles d’un pays peuvent stimuler son développement  économique, tout en valorisant son identité et ses traditions, il est également vrai que chaque investissement nécessite  une connaissance du territoire et de la culture locale.
14.4 La Déclaration de Hangzhou de 2013 a précisément marqué un tournant dans ce processus. Les conventions  de l’UNESCO – depuis celles de 1972, pour la protection du patrimoine mondial, et de 1970, contre le trafic illicite des  biens culturels, jusqu’à celles de 2003, pour la sauvegarde du patrimoine culturel immatériel, et de 2005, sur la  protection et la promotion de la diversité des expressions culturelles – représentent une plateforme irremplaçable pour  concevoir des stratégies destinées à stimuler la croissance et à renforcer les composantes spécifiques à chaque pays.  Je pense notamment à la promotion de parcours de formation et de recherche, à l’échange d’expertise dans différents  domaines, à l’éducation systématique des jeunes au respect du patrimoine, avec l’objectif de faire naître une véritable  citoyenneté culturelle dans laquelle puissent se reconnaître les nouvelles générations. Je pense également à  l’opportunité d’investir dans le secteur stratégique que sont l’industrie culturelle et le tourisme, comme l’Italie l’a fait et  continue à le faire, avec l’organisation des différentes éditions du Forum sur les industries culturelles.
14.5 Je souhaite que ce débat débouche sur des indications concrètes pour nos gouvernements respectifs afin que  la culture puisse être réellement placée au cœur de l’action politique, dans le but de permettre un développement  harmonieux de nos sociétés au profit de la compréhension mutuelle, de la paix et du respect de la diversité culturelle.  Merci beaucoup.
15.1 The Moderator (Mr Cole):   Thank you very much, Mr Bray. I am going to call on Finland to take the floor in a moment, but first, however, I  just wanted to mention that I suspect a lot of you are still reading your statements, which is fine, because it is good to  have done some research and preparation, but I would like you also to speak off the cuff. One speaker this morning who  I thought spoke very well and very naturally was the Deputy Prime Minister of Egypt. He spoke with some emotion and  he spoke very potently, I thought, about how he saw the situation in his country. Costa Rica, too, raised some ideas. The  President was talking about finding solutions. She said that increasing wealth in Northern countries brings increasing  damage to the environment, as we know. While that is unsustainable, you cannot have stagnation either, nor can you  have a balance, when you cannot have stagnation or growth. How do we find a balance going forward after 2015? She  said that we were rushing towards the abyss – a collective suicide. She said that Costa Rica wants to be the first carbon- neutral country in the world by 2021. Who else is on that list? Who else wants to be carbon-neutral by 2021? I would love  to find out. There are so many despots who are democratically elected, but democracy is dangerous without knowledge  – tools in the hands of children. She talked about ethics, aesthetics and citizenship. Some very interesting issues were  raised by her comments.
15.2 We are going to move on, now, to Finland. I call on Paavo Arhinmäki, Minister of Culture and Sport. Sir, the floor  is yours.
16.1 Mr Arhinmäki (Finland):   Thank you, Mr Moderator, Excellencies, ladies and gentlemen. Finland believes that UNESCO has an important  role in the crafting of the post-2015 agenda. The agenda should be built on the human rights-based approach and  poverty eradication, and sustainable development must be placed at its core. The agenda should be focused on reducing  inequalities. Gender equality and women’s empowerment should be our cross-cutting priority. We must ensure access to  education for all groups. More emphasis needs to be paid to quality. The new goal should be about quality of education  and lifelong learning for all. Job-related skills are crucial for employment.
16.2 Culture should be also connected to the post-2015 agenda. Culture is in many ways linked to poverty reduction.  Finland supports UNESCO’s global leadership in cultural diversity and world heritage protection, where we have shared  responsibility. Cultural and creative industries foster the production of goods and services, generate income and create  jobs. Equal and open access to knowledge and information, and freedom of expression and media are crucial for  development. Here UNESCO has a unique mandate. These are some very important points for Finland, for the  programmes we should run in UNESCO and for the post-2015 agenda. Thank you very much, Mr Chair.
(18.1) Mr Yakhlef (Palestine) (translation from the Arabic):   Ladies and gentlemen, this the first General Conference we are participating in since we obtained, at its previous  session, full membership in this international organization; at the same time, we obtained, in 2012, at the United Nations  General Assembly, the status of a State. As you probably know, our legal status is that of the State of Palestine occupied by  Israel. I convey to you all, representatives of global cultural ethics, warm greetings, and also to Ms Bokova, Director-General of  UNESCO. We have expressed, and we express here anew, our full commitment to the objectives and principles of UNESCO  and to its humanitarian values, the values of justice, dialogue, peace and the efforts of the Organization to give priority to  promoting education, to linking culture to the process of development, and to linking science and technology to innovation,  because, as the Director-General said, we need more scientists in this world. We appreciate the efforts of the Executive Board,  the experts and the Director-General in preparing the Draft Medium-Term Strategy. I believe that many of the statements  made in the Leaders’ Forum have provided clarifications on its themes and have expressed support for its contents. I hope  that good use will be made of these enriching comments. Here I should like to stress two things: first, the democratic nature of  education, which the Mongolian minister mentioned just now, and secondly, the teaching of democracy in schools and  including it in curricula.
(18.2) Ladies and gentlemen, in her statement, the Director-General touched on an important point, namely human rights.  She recalled the Universal Declaration of Human Rights adopted by the United Nations in 1948, a year which was, and
69  remains for us, a painful memory, because it was the year of the nakba (catastrophe), which saw the transformation of the  great majority of Palestinians into refugees in neighbouring countries and further afield in the diaspora. Despite the adoption of  General Assembly resolution181 (II) in 1947, which provided for the return of refugees to their native places and for their  compensation, that resolution has never been implemented, because the Israeli authorities have refused to do so, and have  continued to refuse to implement it throughout the 65 years since it was adopted. We are thus bound to ask how the Universal  Declaration of Human Rights has been translated into action, and whether it has been applied in practice. What is the role of  UNESCO in the achievement of fundamental human rights in its fields of competence, in education, science and culture?  UNESCO has done much in this area, but there still remains much for us to do. UNESCO has done and continues to do many  things to help us as Palestinians under the Israeli occupation. We cooperate with UNESCO and believe in its principles. In  particular, we believe in conflict resolution by means of dialogue and negotiation. We are currently negotiating with the Israelis  despite all the obstacles they place in the way of such negotiations, such as the building of settlements and the Wall [of  Separation], modifying the landmarks of Jerusalem, and impairing its human heritage and civilization. Some 65 years after the  Universal Declaration of Human Rights and our nakba (catastrophe), and 46 years after the occupation of the territory of our  State, we look forward to the end of the occupation so that we may enjoy freedom and develop our own life under the wing of  freedom. As you know, there is no such thing as a beautiful occupation; occupation is ugly, very ugly. We who live under  occupation say that the occupation is ugly; there is no beautiful occupation. And as you also know, there is no culture, no  cultural development without freedom, no development in the field of education without freedom, no economic or social  development plans or any other kind of plan which can succeed without freedom. We therefore hope that the international  community and global cultural ethics may support us in achieving freedom and independence and the end of the occupation.
(18.3) Ladies and gentlemen, since we have become a full Member of UNESCO, we join forces with you, united as we are  by our humanitarian responsibilities. We look forward, together with you, to the advent of the beautiful days that are yet to  come. Thank you.
19.1 The Moderator (Mr Cole):   Shukran. I think it is fair to describe that as a historic speech. Let me just ask a question before I call on Bahrain.  Setting a universal and pluralistic agenda for peace and sustainability in the twenty-first century: Is there a formula to find  a humanist vision for the century ahead? Is there a pledge to craft a different, more just, more prosperous world without  poverty or violence and where people live in dignity? The agenda has contributed to lifting millions of people out of  extreme poverty, bringing millions of boys and girls into classrooms around the world, improving women’s lives, raising  the glass ceiling – although in one case we heard in Africa, it is believed in some countries that the glass ceiling is still  very low – and fostering access to food, health, sanitation for millions of individuals in the poorest of places on the planet.  There has been remarkable progress, we’re all aware of that, but it has been uneven and insufficient. How can that  change after 2015?
(20.1) Mr Al Noaimi (Bahrain) (translation from the Arabic):   Bismillāh ir-raḥmān ir-raḥīm (In the name of God, the Merciful, the Compassionate). Distinguished guests, as-salāmu  ‘alaikum wa-raḥmatu llāhi wa-barakātuh (Peace and the mercy and blessings of God be upon you). Mr President, I shall  endeavour to answer the question you raised in your statement by focusing in my own statement on the important topic of  what has been achieved regarding plans for the future in this regard. In order to be able to respond to the question you raised
70  regarding the forthcoming plan, we are in fact meeting today to exchange views on this subject, which is extremely important  for us all. This initiative by the United Nations Secretary-General is the result of a much appreciated international effort aimed  at creating a new global partnership, which is a basic objective of UNESCO in this regard. Indeed, we support the views  expressed by the team entrusted with framing the new development agenda with respect to carrying forward the spirit of the  United Nations Millennium Declaration. Mr President, we believe that this aspect requires greater media exposure in order to  make all parties concerned better aware of the United Nations Millennium Declaration. Indeed, in addition to the best  Millennium Development Goals (MDGs), which I have examined by studying the document in general, I find that these are  important issues, such as poverty, hunger, water, education, and social security, and hence I believe that the post-2015  development agenda we are speaking of, Mr President, should be characterized by comprehensive and realistic initiatives with  a sound vision of the current and forthcoming state of the world in the light of successive variables. This will require us to pay  greater attention to developing educational and social aspects and our education policies, and at the same time to strengthen  the values of peace and tolerance and to highlight the concepts of human rights, which bring human beings together in our  efforts to achieve peace. I therefore believe, from my point of view, that we need to review our previous experience with regard  to the MDGs, as well as the education for all (EFA) initiative and the issues of gender equality, not to mention sustainable  development and the initiative on culture and peace, etc. We also need to remember that many initiatives ‒ and this is very  important – involving international commitments have had varying degrees of success. Those concerned with implementing  the agenda for the forthcoming period need to examine what we call the obstacles that have completely impeded the  achievement of the goals of previous international initiatives with respect to what was planned. I believe that international  officials need to take three things into consideration: first, the need to ensure close coordination and cooperation among all  partners at the national, regional and international levels; secondly, for the success of the Millennium initiative and the post-
2015 plan, it is important for us to endeavour to develop the requisite financial and human resources, especially those required  by countries with limited resources and expertise, and to be seriously committed to implementing them; and thirdly, to draw up  administrative guidelines to ensure a clear vision and a capacity to implement.
(20.2) UNESCO has been at the forefront of important initiatives, whether in education or science. From my personal point  of view, I believe that UNESCO will also be able to achieve more in the forthcoming period if it receives the necessary human  and material support. Mr President, esteemed guests, I should like to convey to this Forum the endorsement of my country,  Bahrain, of these initiatives, and to stress that Bahrain is always ready to cooperate to achieve all the objectives of the post-
2015 agenda. We shall endeavour sincerely, together with the Member States of the Organization, to achieve the objectives of  this initiative. Thank you, Mr President. As-salāmu ‘alaikum wa-raḥmatu llāhi (Peace and the mercy of God be upon you).
21. The Moderator (Mr Cole):   Thank you. Once again, the minister raised water as an issue. We all know the significance of that and the  possibility of water being a cause of conflict, almost certainly in the next 10 to 15 years. What sector does that come  under? Does it come under culture, science or education? That is an issue that people should be looking at very carefully.  I now call on Ms Ena Elsa Velázquez Cobiella, Cuban Minister of Education.
(22.1) Ms Velázquez Cobiella (Cuba) (translation from the Spanish):   Mr Moderator, I would like to thank the Director-General for convening this forum to discuss aspects in which  UNESCO could play a leading role in shaping the post-2015 development agenda.
(22.2) It is already clear that the modest commitments that we set ourselves in 2000 as Millennium Development Goals will  not be met. We have made achievements, but they have been insufficient, and there have been many disappointments. Too
71  many problems are building up in a world that has been plundered and pillaged. It is clear that UNESCO cannot resolve them  all, nor can it singlehandedly change the world. It cannot stop overlapping and permanent crises, nor can it remedy inequitable  international economic relations that make the rich richer and the poor poorer. UNESCO can, however, do many other things –  it can revile war and promote peace, raise awareness of unrelenting environmental destruction and biodiversity loss, promote  a declaration on Internet ethics and privacy, and promote a new humanism and solidarity in the face of selfishness and  pettiness. It could thus contribute to the struggle for a better world. Moreover, if there is anything that that UNESCO can do  better than any other, it is to combat illiteracy indefatigably until it has been eliminated and to promote quality lifelong  education for tens of millions of children, women and men whose basic human right to education is violated. New studies and  assessments are not necessary. We know that illiteracy can be eliminated in a short period of time and that this requires  political will and ambitious goals.
(22.3) In Cuba, more than 50 years ago, with audacity and political will we vanquished illiteracy in one year. Today, we rank
16th in the education for all development index. We have gained experience in this regard and we to UNESCO our offer to  establish triangular cooperation for the implementation of “Yo, sí puedo”, the recognized and proven literacy method through  which more than eight million people in 29 countries on four continents have become literate. UNESCO, too, can make a  unique contribution to the post-2015 development agenda if culture can be included as a factor of development. “Education is  freedom”, as José Martí, Cuba’s apostle, prophetically said. The whole truth cannot be told in a shorter sentence. . Promoting  the development of all art forms can only help to broaden our minds. This will enhance mutual understanding among peoples  and eliminate the causes of fratricidal wars. Thank you very much.
23. The Moderator (Mr Tharoor):   Thank you very much, Cuba. We now turn to Mr Yoh, Minister of Education of South Sudan. Minister, you have  the floor.
24.1 Mr Yoh (South Sudan):   Thank you very much, Mr Chair. I would like to thank not only the colleagues who have just spoken but also  those who enriched the debate, yesterday and today, on the issues of the post-2015 agenda. There were discussions  centred on the issue of youth unemployment within the context of a world that is going through very difficult contradictory  developments. On the one hand, the population is getting younger and restless – the Middle East being the best example  – but at the same time, the economic situation of the world is getting tougher, resources are diminishing and becoming  scarce, and, therefore, there are youth employment issues. In my country, the youngest country in the world, where  young people account for almost 62%  of the population, education issues are vital, especially vocational education, as  are issues relating to how educated society will be able to deal with managing natural resources. Equally, technology will  no doubt become more important than it was, let us say, 15 years ago, and therefore, I think it is vital that when dealing  with issues of youth unemployment we concentrate on the issue of education, especially the vocational training required  for these young people to obtain employment.
24.2 The other issue that has been discussed is the link between culture and education, both to unify within the  diversities of societies, especially in Africa, where diversity is a real issue and, equally, to build peace, which can only be  brought about once issues of dialogue have been addressed within those societies. Education is also linked to  democracy, as pointed out so eloquently this morning by the President of Costa Rica – it is difficult to talk of democracy  unless you have an informed population. UNESCO needs to incorporate this vital component because the growing  population of the world, especially in developing countries, are expected to be democrats, and education can enable  them to understand what democracy is.
24.3 The last point I would like to emphasize is the relationship between humanity and nature. Given the fact that  nature is the guardian of our survival, we need not spend time debating these issues because they are unquestionable.  Over the last 12 months, any one of us, at any time, could have talked of floods, disasters and other such real issues in  the world. And therefore, for the survival of humanity, a knowledgeable world that takes education seriously will definitely  have a very important role to play, not only in solving these problems but also in actually agreeing for the first time that  nature is the frontier that all of us must deal with. I will give you an example from South Sudan, where we share the Nile  with many countries, and where, for the period from April to November every year, we have the biggest swamp in the  world. The only problem we have then is a lot of water, whereas in other parts of the world, such as in the Middle East or  West Africa, people are suffering from a lack of water. The issue of nature and water is not only important, but vital for  the survival of people, so it really must be dealt with.
24.4 I believe that the post-2015 agenda needs more creativity. It is not that we did not know when we decided in
2000 what problems needed to be addressed, but creativity lies in how we find the solutions to those problems. This  creativity must be collective, with vital cooperation between the North and the South. When dealing with issues of  education, youth and culture, it is important to incorporate technology as a way to resolve these problems. Thank you  very much.
25. The Moderator (Mr Tharoor):   Thank you to the distinguished delegate of South Sudan. That was a very focused and practical-minded set of  points. Thank you, Sir. I would now like to turn to the Minister of Education of Thailand, Mr Chaturon Chaisang.
26.1 Mr Chaisang (Thailand):    Mr President, Excellencies, ladies and gentlemen. First, I would like to express my appreciation to UNESCO for  organizing the Leaders’ Forum during this General Conference. This morning, we heard different perspectives, from the  three leaders and many speakers, which I believe have inspired us to look beyond 2015. It reflected the latest results of  global United Nations consultations on tackling poverty after 2015. Many speakers have reiterated that the fundamental  factor of country development is an investment in education.
26.2 In light of this, Thailand agrees that the future development agenda must be built on the principles of human  rights and universal values of equality, justice and security. We therefore support the United Nations Secretary-General’s  Global Education First Initiative (GEFI). In this regard, the Thai Government’s policy on education is fully in line with the  new vision of education. We highlight holistic lifelong learning and the promotion of education quality. Thailand’s  education policy has been formulated so that the building of knowledge, values and social skills are among the key  strategies for creating a more cooperative, peaceful, sustainable and liveable society.
26.3 Since education requires contribution and cooperation from various sectors, the Thai Government has  announced a National Agenda for Education and has declared 2013 to be the year for joint collaboration to raise the  quality of education. The objective of this initiative is to mobilize all expertise and resources to actively take part in  promoting quality education. Measures and actions have been undertaken so as to improve students’ critical thinking  ability, self-learning ability and problem-solving skills. Emphasis has been placed on basic mathematics that prepares  future scientists and researchers. I support many previous speakers on the use of ICTs as tools to develop teaching  pedagogy, learning content, learning standards, evaluation and assessment standards. In response to the linkage of the  demand and supply of education, the quality of vocational education has been emphasized by collaboration with the  industrial sector to promote students’ knowledge and skills and employability.
26.4 On a final note, I would like to encourage UNESCO to continue as an interdisciplinary agency to help solve  many global issues such as poverty reduction, climate change, violence prevention and sustainable peace, so that these  global issues may be effectively solved through education. Thank you for your kind attention.
27. The Moderator (Mr Tharoor):   Thank you very much to the delegate of Thailand for those useful and necessary points. Self-learning is an  interesting thought and something that we could perhaps all inculcate further in our school-children. The next speaker is  the Permanent Delegate and Ambassador of Greece, Ms Katerina Daskalaki.
28.1 Mme Daskalaki (Déléguée permanente de la Grèce) :     Permettez-moi d’exprimer en premier lieu la grande satisfaction qu’éprouve mon pays en constatant que la  notion de culture redevient un élément central du discours sur le développement durable. Grâce aux efforts incessants  du système des Nations Unies et à la résolution historique adoptée par l’Assemblée générale des Nations Unies en  décembre 2011, la culture est placée au centre du rapport entre la croissance économique, le développement social et la  protection de l’environnement, ce qui confirme que le dialogue interculturel est le moyen par excellence d’éviter les  conflits au 21e siècle et de construire la paix ensemble.
28.2 Aujourd’hui, en Grèce –dans cette Grèce frappée par la crise mais qui se redresse en déployant des efforts  surhumains –, la culture reste un puissant outil de créativité, d’amélioration de la qualité de vie et d’innovation en  favorisant la croissance et l’emploi. La société civile est fortement sensibilisée à cet égard et entreprend des activités en  collaboration avec les communautés locales.
28.3 D’autre part, Monsieur le Président, Excellences, permettez-moi d’attirer votre attention sur le fait que le bassin  méditerranéen, ce très ancien berceau de l’humanité, se trouve depuis quelque temps, une fois encore, frappé par des  catastrophes épouvantables. Des destructions irréversibles de sites anciens marquent pour toujours notre ère. Notre  devoir urgent et inéluctable est d’au moins préserver à tout prix ce qui peut être sauvé.
28.4 Dans ce moment de profonde détresse, la création récente, 43 ans après l’adoption de la Convention de 1970,  du Comité subsidiaire de la Réunion des Etats parties à la Convention, porte en soi un message d’espoir, et nous  sommes très conscients et reconnaissants des efforts déployés par la Directrice générale et son administration dans ce  domaine. Il va  sans dire que nous prêtons une attention particulière à l’éducation, aux sciences, à la diversité culturelle  et à l’égalité des genres, ainsi qu’aux autres grands sujets traités par l’UNESCO, mais je pense que toutes ces questions  vont être abordées par la Conférence générale dans les prochaines journées. Je voudrais ici vous assurer que la Grèce  est ouverte à toute collaboration visant la protection des biens culturels, matériels et immatériels, de l’histoire et de  l’identité culturelle, tant dans notre région que partout dans le monde. Je vous remercie.
29.1 M. Tharoor (Modérateur) :    Je remercie l’Ambassadeur de la Grèce.  (Le modérateur poursuit en anglais.)
29.2 I am happy to give the floor to Ms Maria Arnholm, Swedish Minister for Gender Equality and Education.  Ms Maria Arnholm, please.
30.1 Ms Arnholm (Sweden):   Thank you very much, Mr Moderator. Dear ministers, dear colleagues and dear delegates, almost one year ago,  I was in this very impressive room for the first time. I was here to participate in the “Stand up for Malala” event. I would  like to bring this brave and courageous girl to this meeting as well. Her struggle for the right to education must be at the  core of the UNESCO and the post-2015 agendas. I think her example of taking action on her values and really walking  the talk should make her a role model for all of us.
30.2 I would also like to mention another important and somewhat older woman, who we heard at the beginning of  the meeting, after lunch. Ms Mlambo-Ngcuka, Executive Director of UN Women, stated very clearly that there must be a  stand-alone goal on gender equality in the post-2015 agenda. I would really like to emphasize that.
30.3 In my country, Sweden, and in my country’s region, the Nordic region, we still have a long way to go before all  individuals can form their lives without being stuck in the straitjacket of gender norms. But still we have come a long way.
73  I know many are envious that we, the Nordic countries, score high when it comes to global gender-gap ratings. What  does this depend upon? Well, I can assure you that it is not the air we breathe. It is not the dark winter nights or the snow.  I am quite sure that it comes down to education for all. We have had education for all boys and girls since the 1840s.  That is quite a long time and I am sure that if you have to pick one thing and stay focused on one goal, I think that  education for all is the way to go.
30.4 I would like to stress, too, that this stand-alone goal for gender equality must take into account not only women  and girls but also men and boys. In Sweden, as well as in many other countries, we now face the fact that boys are  falling behind when it comes to education and results in schools. All 15-year old boys in Sweden can read, but 25% of  them cannot understand and make use of what they read. I think that is a huge problem that underlines the fact that we  must make gender equality for boys and girls, men and women, one stand-alone goal.
30.5 Finally, I would just like to point out that Malala is a very young opinion-maker of the world and someone who  has really made a difference. I think that to listen to the young is really the way to go and I would like to congratulate  UNESCO for a successful Youth Forum that took place last week. I want to make sure that we listen carefully and take  care of the recommendation that the young people of the world left for us.
31. The Moderator (Mr Tharoor):   Thank you, Ms Arnholm for your very useful remarks, including the significant issue of gender equality. I have to  say, with some petty parochial chauvinism, when I heard that Sweden has had gender equality in education since 1840,  that I represent a part of India in Parliament where a Queen mandated gender equality in compulsory education in our  State in 1819. It is rare, I think, for any part of the developing world to be able to boast of a distinction ahead of Sweden  in this very important area. Thank you for raising some very valuable and pertinent points. Indeed, the concern about  boys slipping behind now is one that I believe will gather in force, not just at the school level but also in higher education  where, certainly to my own observation in my country, increasingly the majority of science graduates and science prize- winners are female. So there is a very significant shift there and gender equality remains an extremely desirable  objective all around. We now turn to Trinidad and Tobago’s Minister of Education.
32.1 Mr Sandy (Trinidad and Tobago):   Thank you, Mr Moderator, but allow me to make a correction. The Minister will be here tomorrow. I am  Ambassador John Sandy, Permanent Delegate to UNESCO. Honourable ministers, distinguished delegates, ladies and  gentlemen, in pursuit of UNESCO’s education for all mandate, we in Trinidad and Tobago pride ourselves in our  achievement of virtually universal education for all with virtually free education through primary to tertiary level and we  are now looking to expand the pre-school area. Our National Commission this year declared the beginning of a decade  for improvement in literacy in order to improve not just the scope but also the quality of education. Yet, with a large  educated core population benefiting from free tertiary education, we are now challenged in finding appropriate  employment, which means that we either explore more innovative approaches to economic development and the way we  leverage our resources, or we risk leaving our young men and women open to temptation of delinquency and criminality.
32.2 One of our greatest challenges, as indicated by previous speakers, remains the high number of young men who  are lagging behind young women in the level of educational achievement. This creates its own social problems, of course,  primarily high levels of delinquency among young men, which makes them vulnerable to criminal lifestyles and the  associated gangster culture. We have started addressing this through our mentorship programme, launched two years  ago, with the motto “If it is to be, it is up to me.” A ten-word sentence of two-letter words to target young people, primarily  young men, between ages eight and 16, using mentors from society to counsel youth, especially those who grow up in  challenged areas, to go back to their community. They repeat this affirmation and we have been seeing excellent results  from this in our youths. At the same time, it integrates the knowledge of older persons and makes them feel appreciated  within our social systems.
32.3 While our young women have high levels of success at the highest levels in all fields of education, the other  systems – the public sector and social systems, and upper levels in the work place – are in many ways still lagging  behind in loosening up the system for young women. Though there are no legal barriers to their accessing any system,  there are barriers based on the cultural conditioning of generations.
32.4 Mr President, we believe that even as UNESCO faces tremendous resource challenges, the global financial  crisis also presents the opportunity to look at effecting greater synergies between UNESCO programmes in the areas of  science, culture, education and communication, which have the kind of multisectoral and multi-dimensional approaches  that all the development changes identified by some of our previous speakers have pointed to.
32.5 We believe that the development push that places culture at the centre of development could genuinely move  beyond the rhetoric if we were to explore these linkages and strengthen mechanisms that take this integrated approach  recognizing that culture is also the impulse behind political operations, education, science, and how we do business. And  we can leverage UNESCO’s work in education, science, culture and communication that effect recognition and the  synergies between and among these fields. We in Trinidad and Tobago stand prepared to work with you to lend our  experiences of having cultivated a relatively peaceful evolution from diverse elements of indigenous peoples of the  Americas and migrants from Europe, Africa and Asia to a society where every creed and race finds an equal place. This  is demonstrated annually in our world-famous carnival as well as in our daily lives and how we manage diversity,  conflicts and differences. We do not just envision, but we live the idea of a world without war, as mentioned by Her  Excellency the President of Costa Rica this morning. She reminded us about war and its consequences. Would it not be  the dream of us all to have a world without war? Just for a moment, let us contemplate the cost of a war: aircraft,  battleships, arms, ammunition and other munitions. Without wars, we could easily feed all the men, women and children
74  of the world. We would be void of the wanton and senseless destruction of our cities. Then, and only then, could we  experience the humanist vision of a peaceful world with food, security and education for all. Thank you.
33. The Moderator (Mr Tharoor):   Thank you to the permanent delegate of Trinidad and Tobago. Allow me to turn now to the Minister of Education  of Brunei, Mr Pehin Abu Bakar Apong. You have the floor, Sir.
34.1 Mr Apong (Brunei):   As-salāmu ‘alaikum wa-rahmatu llāhi wa-barakātuh (Peace and the mercy and blessings of God be upon you).  Mr Moderator, Excellencies, ladies and gentlemen, I wish to begin by concurring with what you, Mr Tharoor, mentioned  this morning on the four “E”s for the post-2015 development agenda, and referred to again by His Excellency from South  Sudan with regard to “employability”. I feel that the employability of our youth is of paramount concern to us all.  Education systems around the world should take heed in rearing our youth with the right skills required by industries.
34.2 In this context, in Brunei Darussalam, we have gone through the transformation of technical and vocational  education and training (TVET). Under this transformation, it is crucial for TVET systems first to have an appropriate  system of governance with sufficient autonomy and flexibility, qualified teaching staff with industrial experience, adequate  capacity and an attractive campus environment. This also requires, Mr Moderator, a change in the perceptions among  parents, students, employers and all other stakeholders, because in some countries, technical and vocational education  has often been referred to as education for failures.
34.3 Second, it is necessary to focus on the training of technicians and skilled personnel, which should be  competency-based, practical and hands-on. Any school leaver who has completed 10 or 11 years of schooling in a  national educational system will have a place in technical and vocational training. While there are ways for further  progression, the key will be the employability of the graduates.
34.4 And third, to meet the aspirations of the people of Brunei Darussalam for a higher standard of living, it is stated  in the national vision known as Brunei’s ‘Vision 2035’, that the less academically inclined must be provided with  opportunities to acquire the right skills and to seek gainful quality employment. This will build the foundation for a more  inclusive and harmonious society.
34.5 With regard to what needs to be done next, I personally feel that UNESCO must focus more on leadership  development at all levels of organizations. We need more drivers. Leadership development and training for our youths,  for example, will provide them with the basis for personal development as well as for employability. Academic  qualifications alone will not guarantee the success required of our youths in the global job market.
34.6 I also wish to share, by reaffirming Brunei Darussalam’s continuing commitment to achieving the Millennium  Development Goals, in particular, Millennium Development Goal two, to ensure that by 2015, children everywhere, boys  and girls alike, are able to complete a full course of primary schooling. During the period 2005 to 2008, the net enrolment  ratio for primary education in Brunei Darussalam was already more than 96% for both boys and girls. Furthermore, the  proportion of grade one pupils who successfully reached grade five is about 99%. Additionally, high literacy rates for the  population in the 15 to 24 age group as well as for those above nine years old has achieved remarkable progress.
34.7 Excellencies, ladies and gentlemen, the implementation of successive policies since the 1950s has also made a  substantial impact on socio-economic development towards the provision of universal access to education. First, the  national education policy targets children in the six to 15 age group to attend primary and secondary school. It lays the  foundation for basic literacy and numeracy skills in children and to provide opportunities for their personal growth and  character development. To guarantee universal access and to achieve the goals as stipulated in UNESCO’s education  for all, the government passed the compulsory education order in November 2007. This legislation provides for nine-year  compulsory education for children from the age of six. The nine-year period includes six years primary school and three  years of lower secondary education. Thus Brunei Darussalam has made a legal provision for achieving universal primary  education and also raising the threshold of at least three years of secondary education.
34.8 Second, since 1997, the country has implemented the inclusive education policy which also provides  accessibility to students with special needs. Third, to keep up with the fast changing world and to prepare students with  the relevant knowledge, skills, values and attitudes, so as to meet the changing needs of our forward-thinking economy,  the country has reformed the education system through our very own national education system for the twenty-first  century, or in short, SPN 21. At the secondary level, SPN 21 provides multiple pathways to accommodate the diverse  learning needs of learners. All students follow a common curriculum for two years, at age seven and eight at the end of  which each student will sit for a progress assessment that aims to serve as the basis for selection to allow them to follow  the designated pathway and study programme suited to their interests and academic needs.
34.9 Finally, Brunei Darussalam’s ‘Vision 2035’ has identified a strategy for education to prepare youth for  employment and achievement in a world that is increasingly competitive and knowledge-based. The ministry of education  has initiated various programmes to further improve teaching instruction and learning in school. Some of the  programmes have been fully integrated as educational programmes into the school curriculum. Thank you, Mr Moderator.
35. The Moderator (Mr Cole):   Thank you, Mr Pehin Abu Bakar Apong of Brunei, Minister of Education. We have been talking about universally  accepted values and ethical principles this morning and this afternoon, including those encapsulated in the Millennium  Development Goals and the Millennium Declaration. So how important is it to take into account global environmental  challenges, such as climate change, biodiversity, loss of ocean and degradation? Should countries be held accountable  in some way if they fail to meet specific goals and targets? Is that a question that we should be talking about? Our next
75  speaker is Mr Juan Manuel Gomez-Robledo, Vice-Minister for Multilateral Affairs of Mexico. Mr Gomez-Robledo, the  floor is yours.
(36.1) Mr Gómez Robledo (Mexico) (translation from the Spanish):   Thank you very much, Mr Minister. I am pleased that you are still inspiring our deliberations as you done for so many  years now. Mr Minister, Mexico shares UNESCO’s vison on the post-2015 development agenda.
(36.2) In particular, my delegation agrees that the new development philosophy must be implemented on the basis of the  lessons learnt from major United Nations conferences and summits and the Millennium Development Goals. Under the new  agenda, of governments’ must join efforts with the private sector, civil society, universities and all the organizations, funds and  programmes of the wider United Nations system, which was not the case in the past.
(36.3) Given the byword “Leave no-one behind”, set out in the report of the High-level Panel on the Post-2015 Development  Agenda, Mexico considers that the development agenda must be built on the basis of inclusion, in other words those basic  enabling factors of development and growth, such as the strengthening of the rule of law, social and financial inclusion and the  protection of human rights – as the Director-General noted this morning – should guide this new phase of development.
(36.4) Inclusion must be understood as a cross-cutting element in the same way as the others, but also as a goal per se of  the post-2015 development agenda that must lead to a narrower poverty and inequality gaps and also ensure the participation  of the most vulnerable groups traditionally excluded from development policies. In sum, we must set minimum well-being  thresholds required to guarantee a decent standard of living, well-being and less inequality on the basis of a few basic features.
76  We must remember today – although it is perhaps a truism – that poverty is multidimensional and cannot be measured solely  in terms of lack of income. Accordingly, last month, at the United Nations General Assembly, the Minister of Foreign Affairs of  my country announced that the Government intended to promote an inclusion initiative called “the global inclusion perspective”.
(36.5) In 2014, Mexico will hold a series of meetings which, we expect, will be attended by all relevant stakeholders in the  agenda, namely governments, civil society, the private sector, universities and international organizations, to foster a pluralistic  debate and together identify the elements of inclusion, for two purposes. First, we wish to incorporate or integrate the  perspective of inclusion into policies that will guide the discussions leading up to 2015, first and foremost, to combat social  exclusion and include traditionally marginalized groups such as migrants, indigenous persons and persons with disabilities. In  this regard, I wish to note that Mexico will also host next year’s only preparatory meeting for the United Nations World  Conference of Indigenous Peoples, to be held in September 2014. This will be the first World Conference of Indigenous  Peoples to be held since we adopted the United Nations Declaration on the Rights of Indigenous Peoples in 2007. Second, we  would like to help to identify the main components of development which, clearly, should take into account three major pillars,  which are economic, social and environmental. It should, however, also address what we in our country consider to be the  seven basic deficiencies that cause structural poverty and must be remedied in order to overcome structural poverty. How can  or should UNESCO contribute to this process? Mr Minister, my delegation is of the view that UNESCO undoubtedly has a  crucial role to play in the process – it can make a very special contribution to formulating and implementing programmes to  promote the development agenda in its various areas of competence … and there is no need to list them. However, I think it  should be emphasized that culture, in its broadest sense, is an intrinsic component of the rule of law. It is a human right that  clearly plays a role in strengthening international peace and security, as the Director-General also noted this morning. We  must therefore ensure that culture in its broadest sense is not referred to merely as an ancillary or subsidiary matter in the  documents that will be adopted in 2015 but that it  will, as I hope, become a goal in itself in the post-2015 development agenda.  Mr Minister, my Government wishes to participate in the substantive reflection and discussion, which are about to begin, and  we shall very soon disseminate a concept paper on the subject at the United Nations.
37. The Moderator (Mr Cole):   Thank you, and I look forward to reading that paper and the global perspective for inclusion, which sounds very  interesting. I also like the idea of culture in its broadest form as part of the rule of law. You are absolutely right. Thank  you for that. I now call on Ms Olivia Muchena, Zimbabwe’s Minister of Higher and Tertiary Education, Science and  Technology Development. Ms Muchena, the floor is yours.
38.1 Ms Muchena (Zimbabwe):   Thank you, Mr President. I wish to respond to earlier pleas by Mr Cole to speak from the heart. As I have  listened to the deliberations, I have had an uncomfortable feeling that if we are not careful, UNESCO’s concerns and  priorities might be left out of the post-2015 agenda, just as they were marginalized in the MDGs. I would like to suggest  that we are currently at the stage of crafting the global agenda. There are some emerging priorities: poverty eradication,  gender equality and climate change. And these are everybody’s concerns. What becomes important is how focused we  are, at UNESCO. We need to establish our mandate regarding climate change and water, so that UNEP or some other  agency does not say we are stepping into their territory. The same applies to gender equality, which could be seen as  UN Women’s domain.
38.2 Mr President, I am pleading for UNESCO to focus on its mandate, in a creative manner, so that at the end of the  day, as the Director-General said yesterday, the world will say that UNESCO matters to the world. How is this to happen?  I will give just two examples. Under our science mandate, I have noticed that each time Mr Hao, the President of this  General Conference speaks, he makes reference to science, technology and innovation. Yesterday, he urged us to draw  inspiration from the emerging economies and the role they have placed on science, technology and innovation. This  morning, he made a statement to the effect that there can be no development without massive investment in science,  technology and innovation.  What would this do for the post-2015 agenda for UNESCO? Is it for UNESCO to focus on  sciences in addition, beyond the academic natural and physical sciences, to look at curricula for vocational educational  training institutions, polytechnics and universities – curricula that will bring training that eventually promotes techno- entrepreneurship and other forms of entrepreneurship that address the very real problem of restless youth and  unemployment?
38.4 The second example is one of culture. I draw a lot of inspiration from Japan, China and India, to mention a few  of the emerging economies, and how culture has been central to their development process. For me, the challenge for  the post-2015 agenda as far as UNESCO is concerned, is how to communicate the importance of culture in development  in the context of a world that is dominated by one dominant culture, which is now being communicated in various ways,  such as the social media, dominant media, and so forth. I think UNESCO would play a very critical role to refocus  Member States on the role of culture in development through the initiatives that are already emerging, such as the  creative economy; innovative ways that make people appreciate other civilizations and other cultures in a manner that  also at the same time puts food on the table. So, to conclude my remarks, I would just like to urge UNESCO to creatively  focus its attention on the Organization’s niche in this big debate on the post-2015 agenda. I thank you, Mr Moderator.
39.1 The Moderator (Mr Cole):   Thank you, Minister, for speaking from the heart. No development without massive investment in science and  technology, that is the story in other countries as well. And the Minister drew comparison in countries, such as Japan,  where culture has played such an important part in their development. Ms Muchena, thank you very much.
39.2 Those of you who have spoken may now speak again, if you wish. You are not limited to one outing. If you have  something important to say, we wish to hear it. Do not hold back. We also do not just want to hear from ministers, of  course, but also from ambassadors, at all levels. This is a brain-storming session. We are looking for ideas and we are  looking for ways to develop the post-2015 agenda.
39.3 While you think about that, I call on Mr Serigne Mbaye Thiam, Senegal’s Minister of National Education. Minister,  the floor is yours.
40.1 Mr Mbaye Thiam (Sénégal) :    Merci beaucoup. Mesdames et Messieurs, je voudrais partager avec vous deux leçons que nous avons apprises  avec notre premier programme sectoriel pour l’éducation et la formation et qui nous ont permis de fixer une orientation  de diversification de l’offre éducative dans le nouveau programme sectoriel qui couvre la période 2013-2025. Ce  nouveau programme, intitulé « PAQUET » (Programme pour l’amélioration de la qualité, de l’équité et de la  transparence), vient d’être adopté par le Gouvernement du Sénégal et a été approuvé par les bailleurs de fonds et la  communauté internationale intervenant dans le domaine de l’éducation. Les deux leçons apprises découlent du fait qu’au  cours de la décennie passée, le Gouvernement du Sénégal a consacré au programme sectoriel décennal plus de 30 %  de son budget de l’éducation et plus de 5 % de son PIB. Cet investissement a permis de faire des progrès importants en  termes d’accès, le taux brut de scolarisation étant passé de 64 % à 94 %.
40.2 En même temps, nous avons noté quelques insuffisances liées au fait qu’une partie de la population a été  réticente à s’engager dans le système d’éducation formelle, hérité de l’ancien colonisateur qu’était la France. Comme  vous le savez, le Sénégal est un pays qui est à plus de 95 % musulman. Une partie de la population préfère toujours   envoyer ses enfants dans les écoles coraniques traditionnelles, où les élèves apprennent à mémoriser le Coran avant de  s’engager dans l’étude des sciences islamiques. Ce type d’enseignement, dans lequel une partie de la population se  reconnaît, a été négligé par le Gouvernement du Sénégal pratiquement depuis l’Indépendance, et nous nous sommes  rendu compte que pour atteindre l’objectif de 100 % de scolarisation, il fallait s’y intéresser.
40.3 C’est ainsi que dans le nouveau programme sectoriel, soucieux de diversifier l’offre éducative, nous avons  décidé de mettre l’accent sur la modernisation de l’enseignement coranique traditionnel en offrant aux enfants qui  choisissent de suivre ce type d’enseignement une formation qui leur permette d’acquérir les instruments de l’éducation  de base formelle et donc, au bout de huit ans, tout en ayant appris à mémoriser le Coran, d’obtenir les premiers  diplômes de l’enseignement formel. Après cela, ils auront la possibilité soit de continuer dans l’enseignement formel, soit  d’aller vers l’enseignement franco-arabe, soit de suivre une formation professionnelle. C’est une direction que nous  avons dû prendre pour essayer de combler le « gap » qui nous sépare de la scolarisation universelle.
40.4 Deuxième direction concernant la diversification de l’offre éducative, nous avons décidé, par une politique  gouvernementale de promotion de l’enseignement professionnel et technique, de faire de cet enseignement un choix  d’orientation des enfants qui valorise leurs capacités dans ces domaines et non plus, comme il était perçu jusqu’alors,  une voie d’échec de l’enseignement général. Je voulais partager avec vous ces deux expériences dans le cadre du  programme pour l’après-2015 et de la tâche qui nous attend d’ici à 2015, à savoir l’accélération de nos objectifs en  termes d’enseignement. Je vous remercie.
41. The Moderator (Mr Cole):   Thank you, Minister, for sharing those valuable experiences. Our next speaker is Ms Agyemang, Ghana’s  Minister of Education. Minister, the floor is yours.
42.1 Ms Agyemang (Ghana):   Excellencies, distinguished moderators, I wish to thank the Director-General for creating this Forum that allows  our different voices to be heard towards making input to the post-2015 agenda. I acknowledge the inspiring speakers  earlier on today and all colleagues who have made such thought-provoking statements. I wish to raise the subject of  culture as a defining quality of a stable society and culture as hinged on language and aided by quality education,  delivered in the language understood by the learner. My delegation wishes to remind us all that we need to be minded by  the fact that culture is complex, it is plural and it has no one size that fits all. The challenge of our time is to respect this  perennial fact, to live with it and to tolerate it. The world we wish to live in should perforce have respect for diversity in a  very practical way, knowing that cultures are not static or perfect and must develop on their own volitions.
42.2 The subject of history is critical here. Children continue to be taught in languages that are not their primary  languages and their own languages are seen as markers of illiteracy, while the broad strokes of the educational content  do not even relate to their daily lives. This fact, though rarely used in research instruments, accounts for drop-out rates  and, tragically, for the alienation of education. Therefore, education achieves the opposite of its intended results. Such an  arrangement sets learners up for failure, at worst, and at best, for incomplete and inapplicable learning outcomes.
42.3 My delegation urges UNESCO to place at the forefront of the considerations on culture, societies that have been  affected by their recent history, where education as practised, invested in and deployed is defined practically by steps  that lead the learner away from the non-variables. These non-variables that define culture include language, history,  philosophy, religion, manners, customs, behaviours, values and more.
42.4 We are very happy to note that culture is going to take such a central role and we consider that it is about time.  The emphasis on culture by UNESCO, rightly pushed to the heart of the post-2015 agenda, allows for a unique  opportunity to build positions of strength, for true peace, beginning with the self and the environment, where citizens’  identities are reinforced, their self-confidence restored and raised, inferiority complexes challenged and self-learning  assured. This should move the marginalized and vulnerable to develop the habit of critical thinking and have the space  for creativity and the confidence to respect the self and others, and not feel threatened by difference.
42.5 The foundations so created should boost acceptance of different competences, whether vocational, technical or  otherwise. Learners will then have the confidence to make choices, because every choice is important. We would also  like to suggest that, as we move forward, we consider other forms of education such as those that have been ill-defined
78  as informal, non-formal, traditional and so on, but which also have riches that you can excavate in terms of methodology,  equity and creativity, in all kinds of delivery including technical and vocational education (TVET).
42.6 In closing, distinguished ladies and gentlemen, I would like to suggest that we continue to see education as an  indispensable imperative that can and should be delivered in all languages anywhere, regardless of the number of  people who speak them. This is so because we cannot afford to leave anyone behind. The forward-march should have  everyone marching forward. Language should be no barrier to quality education. Thank you very much.
(44.1) Mr Al Waz (Syrian Arab Republic) (translation from the Arabic):   Madam Director-General, dear facilitators, ladies and gentlemen, I am grateful to the facilitators for having referred  this morning to the fact that a Damascus school was targeted by armed groups, which have attempted by all possible means  to halt the educational process in various Syrian provinces. This is clear proof that extremism is the enemy of education.  Ladies and gentlemen, the crisis that my country, the Syrian Arab Republic, has been going through for more than two and a  half years has obstructed development plans and has given rise to severe human and material damage as a result of external  instigation and support for terrorist and fundamentalist bands, such as al-Qā‘ida and Jabhat an-Nuṣra, which have threatened  our heritage and destroyed infrastructure in our country, including 4,000 schools and give rise to more than 500 martyrs  among pupils and teachers. Indeed, this difficult ordeal, which we have faced with determination and will-power, has made it  necessary to provide education to more than 4 million pupils and students.
(44.2) We hope that the Organization will take account of the following in its policies and programmes: first, with a view to  enriching social development and the culture of peace, and to promoting dialogue and rapprochement among cultures, we  urge you to acknowledge the urgent need to highlight the content of regular education in certain Member States, which turn  out to incubate terrorism, and the need to ensure harmonization regarding the concept of the nation State and its relationship  to the concepts of freedom, democracy and global citizenship, and to exert serious efforts to encourage countries to enact  laws and adopt educational and scientific measures which inculcate acceptance of the Other without interfering in the internal  affairs of States or affecting their sovereign national power of decision, distinguishing carefully between resistance and  terrorism. Secondly, with a view to ensuring world peace and preserving the safety and security of journalists, and in an  attempt to hold to account biased media which perform their work in a manner which engenders crises and dissension and  fans the flames of terrorism, we believe that we should work together (1) to encourage freedom of the press and preserve  constructive freedom of expression which ensures sustainable and equitable development for societies and individuals, and
(2) to enforce the media code of conduct and the ethics of journalism and develop a sense of journalistic responsibility. Our  venerable Organization is called upon, now more than ever, to stand together with the Member States and to help to develop a  realistic vision which ensures the professionalism of journalistic work among individuals working in the field.
(44.3) Finally, our responsibility today, we who are gathered together in this Leaders’ Forum, is to leave to our children and  grandchildren the best of what we have inherited. We therefore call upon UNESCO to enable us to look to the horizon of 2015  and beyond and to build together, as partners, both peoples and governments, a humane, civilized multicultural edifice which  is rooted in our civilizations, history and heritage, constantly renewed, by means of education, science, culture, communication  and technology, whose mainstays are sustainable peace and security, and by giving preference to dialogue and inclusive  solutions which reject violence, extremism and conflicts. Thank you for your attention.
45. The Moderator (Mr Tharoor):   Thank you Mr Al Waz, we appreciate the enormous odds under which these challenges are being faced in your  country. We now turn to the Minister of Education, Science and Sport of Slovenia, Mr Jernej Pikalo. Mr Pikalo, you have  the floor, Sir.
46.1 Mr Pikalo (Slovenia):   Mr Moderator, Excellencies, ladies and gentlemen. Answering to some of your challenges for the ideas beyond
2015, let me propose some ideas from the Republic of Slovenia. We feel that Millennium Development Goals have been  undoubtedly proven and have caused visible progress and we can achieve a lot if we set the targets and we act as  responsible actors in order to pursue those very clear targets. Here, the role of UNESCO must be highly acknowledged.
46.2 Second, learning from the past, it is evident that global issues can only be addressed by recognizing their  interconnected nature. We cannot address poverty without addressing issues such as education, equality and the use of  information and communication technologies (ICTs). In this respect, and with a very clear recognition of the need we  have for a global and environmental as well as sustainable and economically viable agenda, it is our conviction that  education and science should be at the forefront of our common efforts to eradicate poverty, guarantee greater equality  and secure equal and progressive social as well as economic development.
46.3 It is through education that we can promote values of global citizenship, global awareness, mutual respect and  solidarity. That is why we are proposing a paradigm that we have taken up in Slovenia, what we call the ‘Open Education  Project’ which brings together very innovative ICTs in order to provide really open education systems from pre-school all  the way through to higher education. In an increasingly global and interconnected environment, the traditional  understanding, where knowledge is only national or even local, is insufficient. Today, the search for knowledge is global  and should be complemented obviously with global education.
46.4 We therefore feel that education should be open and available to all, with the newest and best possible means,  including ICTs. A student in China needs and strives for the same knowledge as a student in Argentina. That is why open  education should be at the top of our agenda and we feel that it should be one of the fundamental precursors of a global,  balanced and equal development. Thank you very much.
47. The Moderator (Mr Tharoor):   Thank you, Minister, for your very brief and pertinent remarks. I now give the floor to Ms Lisa Hanna, Minister of  Youth and Culture of Jamaica.
48.1 Ms Hanna (Jamaica):   Good afternoon, everyone. Good afternoon, Mr President, Director-General, and other distinguished heads of  delegations here. I have one simple point to make. As Minister of Youth, I have recognized something very interesting in  my own country. While we were planning policy for young people, our young people in their own minds were creating  something for themselves already.  Last year, we had the opportunity to spend six months in consultation with our young  people, and one of the things that specifically came out of those consultations was the fact that many of them felt  resigned to the status that they were in. Many of them felt that they had no space in the country, even though we have  achieved several Millennium Development Goals including 100% access to primary education.
48.2 So, we have begun to recalibrate youth initiatives and reset a number of our policies to make them more youth- friendly. In addition to that, we want our young people to have the courage to do things differently, because they tell us  that technology has impacted their lives. For instance, while it took radio 38 years to reach an audience of about 15  million, it took television 15 years and it took the Internet four years. When they told me that YouTube took less than a  year to reach an audience of a billion people with the song Gangnam Style, I was blown away.
48.3 We have the opportunity to change the world in real time, perhaps all at the same time, if we have the courage  to really do things differently. What does this mean? I am sure that most people here know the song ‘One Love, One  Heart’ by Bob Marley. And if I ask you all, regardless of what language you speak or which culture you come from,  everyone knows Bob Marley. Am I right? And you can say, ‘Get Up, Stand Up, Stand Up for Your Rights’.  Culture has  the opportunity to change the world. It has the opportunity to bring peace and love to many different generations,  regardless of age. We, as policy-makers at UNESCO, have the opportunity at this debate to do something significantly  different: to identify how to now build a bridge between those young people who will take over the world in the next 10,
20 or 30 years, how to plan policies for that, and how to use best practices from other countries. For example, how does  a country like Jamaica use the same best practices as countries such as Brazil, which is using immense innovations in  science and technology? How do other countries use the role that Jamaica has played with reggae music to affect  legislation? Back in the 1970s, our government listened to the lyrics of Bob Marley and a lot of our progressive legislation  for women and children, such as equal pay for equal work and maternity leave with pay, came out of the lyrics of reggae  music.
48.4 I would like to suggest to this body that somehow we identify whether or not in the post-2015 goals we use some  examples of best practices from other countries to now build a bridge between the policy debate that we are having at  the high level and bring it down to the ground, so that it really includes our young people who have the ability to shape  the future for the next generation, because they are using these technologies and are already having the debates that we  are having here. Somehow I feel that we are lagging behind what they have already discussed. Thank you.
49. The Moderator (Mr Tharoor):   Thank you for that and thank you in particular for injecting Bob Marley into this conference room. We have all  been given something to think about and I would welcome other people’s comments on this reflection by the Jamaican
(50) Mr Abied (Libya) (translation from the Arabic):   As-salāmu ‘alaikum wa-raḥmatu llāhi (Peace and the mercy of God be upon you). This morning, the President of  Costa Rica spoke of education and its role in preserving the environment. And the President of Tunisia noted that education  enhanced the ability to think. Other speakers have said that education created job opportunities and alleviated poverty.  Education strengthens culture and deep-seated knowledge. This gives the impression that the traditional education system is  going through a veritable crisis, and this is precisely what we feel in Libya, as in many other parts of the world. We spend large  amounts of money only to find that the outputs are not commensurate with the amounts spent. In most countries of the world,  education still relies on rote learning and cramming, an experience we are all familiar with: such students soon forget what has  been crammed into their brains once they leave school. In many instances, we find ourselves confronted with pseudo- educated rather than truly educated individuals. UNESCO, the world’s ministry of education, is called upon, in collaboration  with all States and all institutions worldwide which are concerned with education, to establish precise criteria for a new  educational system which goes beyond all defects and which contributes to building global, conscious individuals who are  aware of their rights and obligations towards other human beings, and towards nature and the environment, which we are all  bound to respect. From this spot I urge UNESCO and all those concerned with global affairs to draw up proper criteria for a  new global system which goes beyond the traditional system which is over a century old. Thank you and as-salāmu ‘alaikum  wa-raḥmatu llāhi (peace and the mercy of God be upon you).
51. The Moderator (Mr Tharoor):   Thank you, Mr Minister. The next speaker is Mr Mpinda Simão, Angola’s Minister of Education. Angola, you  have the floor.
52.1 M. Mpinda Simão (Ministre de l’éducation de l’Angola) :     Je vous remercie, regrettant cependant de n’obtenir la parole que maintenant alors que je l’avais demandée en  fin de matinée.
52.2 Monsieur le Président de la Conférence générale, Mesdames et Messieurs les délégués à la 37e session de la  Conférence générale de l’UNESCO, je voudrais en premier lieu féliciter la Directrice générale d’avoir inscrit un point  aussi important que le programme de développement pour l’après-2015. L’éducation est essentielle pour réaliser un  développement durable, particulièrement un développement centré sur l’homme qui permette de sortir de la pauvreté et  d’améliorer ses conditions de vie. Nous appuyons les idées qui sont défendues dans le programme pour l’après-2015 et  nous voudrions, malgré les très bons résultats obtenus en matière de scolarisation des enfants et des jeunes, insister sur  l’accès universel, qui permet à tous d’acquérir des connaissances et des compétences et est un moyen d’éviter que de  jeunes enfants restent en dehors du système éducatif.
52.3 Je voudrais insister aussi sur l’équité, et surtout sur l’égalité des genres. Les femmes constituent un groupe  majoritaire dans presque tous les pays du monde, particulièrement en Afrique, et une force de production qu’aucun  projet de développement ne saurait négliger.
52.4 La qualité est fondamentale. Le système d’éducation doit être de qualité pour constituer une base durable et  soutenue de promotion du développement économique et social dans les différentes nations du monde. Il convient de  mettre particulièrement l’accent sur la formation initiale et continue des professeurs, et surtout de donner le sens du  leadership aux institutions et aux structures qui s’occupent de la gestion des systèmes éducatifs. Les inspecteurs, les  directeurs d’école, les spécialistes de l’évaluation de l’apprentissage et du système éducatif occupent à cet égard une  place prépondérante.
52.5 Le chômage des jeunes est un problème dans le monde d’aujourd’hui, créant dans la population un manque de  moyens de subsistance qui peut déboucher sur des conflits et est catastrophique dans la vie des peuples. L’Angola en  est un exemple. Pour construire des nations fortes, il faut des citoyens solides et bien préparés, des citoyens disponibles  et capables de contribuer au développement de leur pays. Voilà les quelques idées que je voulais partager avec vous  après le débat de ce matin. Merci.
53.1 M. Tharoor (Modérateur) :    Merci, Monsieur le Ministre. Je regrette beaucoup que vous ayez dû attendre si longtemps avant de pouvoir  intervenir, votre nom n’ayant pas été inscrit sur la liste des orateurs. Ceci n’enlève toutefois rien à l’intérêt de votre  intervention.  (Le modérateur continue en anglais)
53.2 We will now turn to Bangladesh, Mr Nurul Islam Nahid, Minister of Education and Chairperson of the  Bangladesh National Commission for UNESCO. Mr Minister you have the floor, Sir.
54.1 Mr Shahidul Islam (Bangladesh):   Thank you very much. I am Mr Shahidul Islam, Ambassador and Permanent Delegate to UNESCO, but I assure  you that I speak on behalf of my Education Minister, who was supposed to come today, but had to stay back in the  capital due to unavoidable circumstances.
54.2 We agree with the United Nations Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon that the Millennium Development Goals  (MDGs) have been the most successful global anti-poverty push in human history. In Bangladesh, we have halved the  number of people living in extreme poverty, two years before 2015. We have attained general parity at the primary and  secondary education levels.
54.3 Bangladesh has also made significant progress in the areas of child mortality and maternal mortality. We note  that many of our fellow developing countries have done equally well. But we know that we can hardly be complacent.  First, many of our countries are yet to ensure education for all, let alone can they afford quality education. We certainly  want to graduate from quantity to quality in respect of education, but how do we ignore the unfinished goals of EFA? So  when we talk about UNESCO’s contribution to the post-2015 development agenda, there will be a need for maintaining  both continuity and transformation in our approach to education.
54.4 Second, since the MDGs were announced in 2000, many new challenges have arisen. Climate change is the  most important among them, threatening the sustainability of the progress made by many low-lying coastal countries,  least developed countries (LDCs) and small island developing States (SIDS). For them, sustainable development is not a  choice but a question of existence. The post-2015 development agenda needs to encapsulate this reality and UNESCO  can contribute through its climate change education programme, scientific expertise relating to oceans and water  management.
54.5 There is also a growing realization of the link between culture and development that needs to be included in the  post-2015 development agenda in an explicit manner and UNESCO is the right organization to promote this component  of sustainable development.
54.5 Third, the post-2015 agenda is not only about sharpening our commitment and creating awareness through  advocacy. It is also about mobilizing necessary funds to create national capacity and help developing countries to attain  these objectives. As the Deputy Prime Minister of Malaysia said, to achieve education for all goals, it will be necessary to  establish thousands of new schools and recruit hundreds of thousands of teachers. While UNESCO remains engaged in  shaping post-2015 development goals, it will have to place emphasis on mobilizing resources through partnerships and  adopt an innovative approach to funding. Thank you.
55.1 The Moderator (Mr Tharoor):   Thank you, Mr Ambassador. Indeed, as my colleague Steven Cole mentioned earlier, we are quite happy to  hear from ambassadors in the absence of their ministers and it was very good to have your contribution to this discussion.
55.2 I have only one more delegate on my list so far. We would welcome a few more speakers and even if those who  have spoken earlier wish to speak again in response to comments made by others, they are welcome to do so. We  would still of course aim to finish by 6 p.m. The final person on my list for now is the Minister of Basic Education of  Cameroon, Ms Hadidja Alim Youssouf. Vous avez la parole.
56.1 Mme Youssouf (Cameroun) :     Merci beaucoup. Monsieur le Président de la Conférence générale, Madame la Présidente du Conseil exécutif,  Madame la Directrice générale de l’UNESCO, honorables Chefs de délégation, Mesdames et Messieurs, permettez-moi  d’abord d’exprimer mes sincères remerciements à Mme Irina Bokova, Directrice générale de l’UNESCO, pour m’avoir  invité à participer à cet important Forum des dirigeants dont le thème s’intitule « Mobilisation et contribution de  l’UNESCO à l’agenda post-2015 à travers l’éducation, les sciences, la culture, la communication et l’information ». Je  voudrais saluer cette heureuse initiative qui s’inscrit en droite ligne des travaux de la 37e session de la Conférence  générale de l’UNESCO. En même temps, il me plaît de m’acquitter de l’honorable devoir dont m’a chargé le Chef de  l’État du Cameroun, S. E. M. Paul Biya, qui m’a demandé de vous transmettre ses chaleureuses félicitations pour la  tenue de cette session.
56.2 Excellences, Mesdames et Messieurs, le Gouvernement de mon pays s’est considérablement investi dans la  mise en œuvre des OMD, notamment dans le secteur de l’éducation qui est au centre de l’agenda de développement  des hautes autorités gouvernementales du Cameroun. En effet, il importe de relever en substance que mon pays s’est  doté d’un cadre législatif et règlementaire approprié et d’une stratégie pour le secteur de l’éducation qui a été validée,  puis approuvée par les partenaires techniques et financiers en 2006. Celle-ci visait les objectifs ci-après :  l’universalisation de l’enseignement primaire ; l’amélioration de l’accès et de la qualité de l’éducation ; la réduction de la  disparité entre les genres ; l’amélioration de la gouvernance du système éducatif ; le renforcement du partenariat. La  vision du développement visant à faire du Cameroun un pays émergeant à l’horizon 2035 a amené le Gouvernement à  revoir sa stratégie, conformément aux OMD, pour l’arrimer au Document de Stratégie  pour la croissance et l’emploi  (DSCE). Cette stratégie révisée  a été validée et approuvée, en août 2013, par les partenaires techniques et financiers.
56.3 En outre, notre pays a engagé un vaste programme de réformes dans le secteur de l’éducation sous-tendu par  neuf principes directeurs, notamment : le renforcement de l’éducation civique à tous les niveaux de l’éducation et de la  formation, la consolidation de la politique du bilinguisme, l’orientation du système éducatif vers la croissance et l’emploi,  l’encouragement de l’offre privée d’éducation, le partenariat efficace et bien cordonné, la redevabilité, le renforcement de
82  la gestion décentralisée, la promotion des langues et cultures nationales. La stratégie actuelle s’inscrit donc dans le  prolongement de celle de 2006 quant à l’objectif de la généralisation de l’accès et de l’achèvement du cycle primaire.
56.4 Le programme de recrutement du personnel enseignant se poursuit normalement. La politique de gratuité de  l’éducation au niveau du primaire décidée par le Chef de l’État a permis de mettre en place des mesures  d’accompagnement telles que le paquet minimum, les crédits de fonctionnement des écoles, la vulgarisation des  bibliothèques scolaires, les cantines scolaires, etc. Toute cette panoplie de mesures a permis d’améliorer nettement les  indicateurs au niveau de l’éducation, bien qu’il y ait encore des efforts à faire.
56.5 Les défis qui nous interpellent, qui sont relevés dans le nouveau RESEN (Rapport d’état du système éducatif  national) et que l’UNESCO devra prendre en compte pour l’après-2015, nous paraissent être prioritairement :  l’amélioration de la qualité de la formation des enseignants ; l’universalisation de l’enseignement primaire ; la poursuite  du programme d’alphabétisation ; la valorisation et le soutien de l’enseignement technique et professionnel ; la prise en  compte d’une demande de plus en plus forte de préscolarisation ; le renforcement de l’éducation inclusive ;  l’harmonisation des connaissances et des diplômes de l’enseignement supérieur ; l’employabilité des diplômés des  universités.
56.6 Je m’associe de même au souhait du Groupe Afrique qui voudrait que la science, la technologie et l’ingénierie  soient considérées comme des priorités « hautes », et non pas « basses » comme c’est le cas actuellement dans le
37 C/5. Nous pensons que l’éducation doit réellement contribuer à réduire la pauvreté. Nous nous félicitons de constater  que c’est en ce sens que l’UNESCO oriente ses programmes et souhaitons qu’elle poursuive son action dans cette  direction. Je vous remercie, Monsieur le Président, de votre aimable attention.
57.1 M. Tharoor (Modérateur) :    Je vous remercie, Madame le Ministre.   (Le modérateur poursuit en anglais)
57.2 I am very pleased to offer the floor to Ambassador Kenjiro Monji. You have the floor, Sir.
58. Mr Monji (Japan):   Thank you very much, Mr Moderator. Actually this is the first time I have spoken and I hesitated to take the floor  because I am the newest Ambassador, Permanent Delegate to UNESCO, having arrived only last week. However, as  our Deputy Minister for Education has not arrived yet, please allow me to make two brief points.
58.2 First, on education. As many participants have pointed out the importance of education in the post-2015  development agenda, it is essential to present a clear vision of the role of education. In this regard, it is appropriate to  define the role of education for sustainable development (ESD). Japan considers it desirable to pursue education for all,  together with education for sustainable development in order to improve the quality of education from the viewpoint of  securing sustainable development and, in this regard, I am happy to announce that Japan will host the UNESCO world  conference on ESD in November 2014.
58.3 Second, on science. We should make most of the knowledge and the know-how of UNESCO in science in such  areas as water, oceans, ecosystems and management of social transformations, where UNESCO has a comparative  advantage on the international scene. It is also important to promote sustainable science, a notion that presents an  approach to integrate natural sciences and social and human sciences, which is very important today, as the  comprehensive approach to global issues is becoming increasingly important. Thank you very much.
59. The Moderator (Mr Tharoor):   Thank you, Mr Ambassador and certainly there is a great deal to be said for the freshness of spirit that comes  with a newly appointed ambassador on such an important issue on which perhaps too much has been said for too long  without sufficient new ideas emerging to animate the debate. Since I had the pleasure of introducing the discussion a few  hours ago, my co-moderator Steven Cole will now take the floor, now that it seems that we have run out of speakers  among the ministers and speakers, to give you his thoughts on the discussion that we have heard this afternoon. Steven  Cole, you have the floor.
(61) Mr Thneibat (Jordan) (translation from the Arabic):   Bismillāh ir-raḥmān ir-raḥīm (In the name of God, the Merciful, the Compassionate). Excellencies, ladies and  gentlemen, as-salāmu ‘alaikum wa-raḥmatu llāhi wa-barakātuh (Peace and the mercy and blessings of God be upon you). Like  you, I have listened today to numerous valuable statements on education and development, and first and foremost that of the  President of Costa Rica. I was particularly struck by a fundamental claim when she said that any development process that  was intended to be effective needed to be focused on people, as she said, among many other useful points. I say that we have  talked a lot today about the education process in general in our world, which we hope will be a united world. But when it was  suggested that the education process, rather than being mere rote learning, should be a participatory process, we neglected  two fundamental points: first, that participatory education as an educational concept should not be just between the teacher  and the student, but also between the teacher and the parent, and then between the teacher and the student because  feedback from the parents helps us to a very large extent to deal with the students. I have noticed in my wide reading that  statistics indicate that 38% of students in the developing world do not revise their lessons at home. This is a very dangerous  statistic, to which we need to pay close attention. UNESCO needs to make efforts to educate people about this matter through  its various offices in the Member States. Secondly, we have neglected to ensure continuous updating of curricula on the basis  of feedback from the parents, which we have done and shall continue to do in Jordan: revision of curricula on the basis of  periodic meetings with parents in order to ascertain the quality and relevance of the curricula with respect to the students’  ability to absorb them. Finally, we in Jordan have been confronted with very difficult circumstances, since we have had to take  in large numbers of our Palestinian, Iraqi and Syrian brethren and provide education to them, which has given rise to a major  financial and educational crisis for us. Over the past year, some 100,000 Syrian students have come to us, and this has  constituted a great burden on our schools and our limited financial resources. The international aid provided has not been  sufficient at all. Therefore, from this global rostrum, I urge UNESCO and those States that have the financial wherewithal to do  so to help Jordan to undertake this noble humanitarian mission, because we are all partners in the educational process; we  are all partners in the developmental process. The children of States experiencing troubles must not be left without education.  That is why we opened the doors of our public schools to all students who had come to Jordan, regardless of their nationality,  and this gave rise to a tremendous burden on our schools. In some classes there have been more than 70 students per class,  so you can imagine, as most of you are educationalists, the quality of education the students could receive under such  circumstances. I therefore reiterate, once again, my appeal for assistance to be provided to Jordan to enable it to perform its  task of hosting students from neighbouring peoples and providing appropriate education to them. Thank you very much.
62.1 The Moderator (Mr Cole):   Thank you very much for that most welcome statement. I certainly recognize, as we all do, the pressures on  Jordan, and Lebanon, too, in terms of the refugee situation and the 70 pupils per class. How can one teach in such  circumstances? I have absolutely no idea.
62.2 Before I summarize today’s debate, we shall first hear, very briefly, from Mr Kaimenyi, Cabinet Secretary of  Education, Science and Technology of Kenya.
63. Mr Kaimenyi (Kenya):   Today we have heard that we have tended to focus more on girls – to the extent that boys are becoming an  endangered species. That is in fact the case in Kenya. We should therefore refocus also on boys. Finally, we were told  by the President of Costa Rica that generation after generation there have been battles of hatred. She then went on to  say that Costa Rica has espoused peace. Can we all espouse peace, like Costa Rica? Thank you very much.
64.1 The Moderator (Mr Cole):   Thank you for those worthwhile remarks. The President of Costa Rica made a lot of points in her excellent  speech that have rebounded around this room, today, and I thank you for that.
64.2 I just wish to say that the remark by Jordan, about successful schools having a high degree of involvement by  parents, is a very important point, and not just in Jordan, but around the world. Every successful school, you will find, is  backed and supported and has involvement by parents, in my experience anyway.
64.3 We are reaching the end of the Leaders’ Forum. I am confident that it has been a success, thanks to that type of  exchange and those kinds of remarks from all around the room. I am convinced that we have mobilized and contributed  to the post-2015 agenda through education, the sciences, culture, communication and information.
64.4 Education is at the heart of everything, of course. It remains the key objective, but first of all we must increase  the work towards eliminating illiteracy. It is also important to bear in mind that education is preparation for a child’s life in  the community. The President of Tunisia insisted on the importance of striking a balance between the need for people,  especially youth, to find work and the requirement of living as citizens in a complex and diverse world. He also used a  very important quote, which said that the Asian Tiger economies had grown from cubs because of education, which I
84  thought was apposite. Education must, in that sense, foster creativity, technical and vocational education. Others made  points about vocational education, especially in those areas where 60% of the unemployed are under the age of 25. That  is a very key point. Training, critical thinking and digital skills, as well as tolerance and openness to other cultures are  vital.
64.5 The awareness of culture is another key element. Indeed, it was aptly described by Ms Irina Bokova, Director- General of UNESCO, as the foundation of the future. Culture was not mentioned in the MDGs, but the world in 2013 is  very different from the world in 2000, not least of course the world of technology, but that probably overlooked the local  conditions of development and peace as well as governance.
64.6 Sustainable development is a wonderful phrase. It trips off the tongue very easily. How easily, however, do we  understand it? And what does it mean? It can only happen if it is embedded in the cultural experience of people, which is  a source of identity, prosperity and social harmony. The role of UNESCO will be to promote the positive forces of culture,  but also to prevent the politicization of culture as a means of opposing countries and spreading conflict and terror. In this  respect, we must reflect on the need for a new social contract, which would address ethical challenges and which would  include a natural contract as advocated by the President of Costa Rica. We need to achieve harmony among people and  not just among people but with nature as well. This is the essence of sustainable development, which is why I mention it,  and it must involve renewed action with respect to climate change, biodiversity losses and ocean degradation.
64.7 The Prime Minister of Lithuania pointed us in the right direction when he stressed that the post-2015 agenda  must provide synergies between science, policy and society. That is very important. In the debate, many minsters  expanded on those leading thoughts on how to best promote sustainable development and lasting peace. We have  heard many stories around this room on how countries approach that and how they cope with global challenges and  strive for new solutions and approaches in line with the principles of UNESCO. Responding to the remarks of the heads  of State and government, you have insisted on the need to establish strong connectivity between development, culture,  education, democracy, jobs and creativity, sustainability and shared knowledge. That is a very long list.
64.8 What emerges here is a vision where poverty and exclusion can be effectively tackled by actions fostering  dignity and equality, especially with respect to women, youth and cultural diversity. In conclusion, what is striking is that  with all this human wealth at hand, UNESCO lacks the resources to fuel programmes that all of us today have deemed  indispensable for the future of us all. As stressed by the Chair of the Executive Board, Ms Cummins, when compared to  the world population, the budget of UNESCO – and this I did not know at the beginning – is equivalent to 4.5US cents  per person, per year. That is clearly insufficient if we intend to commit, in earnest, to building peace in the minds of  people. We must reflect on the words of His Excellency Mr Hao Ping, President of the 37th session of the General  Conference, when he said that the hour has come for UNESCO to remind leaders of their responsibilities.
64.9 In a period when the budget of UNESCO is severely diminished – which is a massive understatement in my view  – efforts must be made to obtain due resources, but efforts must also be made in more strategic directions. The  Organization must be more innovative, especially with technology – although again I insist that technology is a fabulous  tool, but it is not the solution – and work closer to the field, reforming its architecture and its relations with Member States  and also engage with partners from civil society and the private sector, increasingly perhaps in the light of the budget  deficit. The private sector should be encouraged to mobilize energies that have long remained untapped and without  which a global development agenda cannot find its way to solving some of the daily realities experienced by people  around the world.
64.10 There has been an uneven response, as Ms Bokova said in her opening remarks. By basing its action on such  partnerships, spanning from the global to the local, UNESCO should be better positioned in the post-2015 period to  achieve solidarity among people, cultures, and nations. Thank you very much. I now give the floor to His Excellency Mr  Hao Ping, President of the 37th session of the General Conference.
65.1 The President:   Excellencies, ladies and gentlemen, allow me first to congratulate all participants at this session of the Leaders’  Forum, especially the heads of State and government who were present to launch the debate with inspiring and thought- provoking speeches.
65.2 As you all recognized, the Millennium Development Goals (MDGs) and education for all (EFA) goals have  succeeded in catalysing a global humanist awareness in all countries, among governments as well as civil society.  Peace, prosperity and harmony cannot be attained without efforts to address the needs of people living in poverty or on  the margins of society. Progress has been made, but much remains to be done.
65.3 One lesson you draw from the success of MDGs is that sustainable and equitable development cannot rest  solely on economic policy. It calls for approaches that put humans at the centre. It calls for new models through which  people can be equipped with the tools that help them develop their own potential for creativity and dialogue.
65.4 In the debate, many ministers reflected on how to best promote sustainable development and lasting peace  through a true global development agenda. From this exchange it is easy to conclude that UNESCO’s mission is more  important than ever. Yet, our Organization does not have the resources that can match its universal ambitions. We  require efforts from all UNESCO stakeholders to give it the means to really build the defences of peace in the minds of  people. Allow me also to say how much the quality of the debate has depended on the skill and the poised moderation of  Mr Shashi Tharoor and Mr Steven Cole, whom I thank most profoundly for their contributions.   (Applause)
65.5 Let me also inform you that the Secretariat will shortly issue an information document capturing the major points  and suggestions made at the Leaders’ Forum. This document will then inform our further discussions on the post-2015  development agenda, throughout this session, and in particular at the joint meeting of commissions scheduled to address  this item. Thank you very much. The meeting is adjourned. Thank you.  The meeting rose at 6.05 p.m.  La séance est levée à 18 h 05  Se levanta la sesión a las 18.05  Заседание закрывается в 18.05  بعد الظهر ٦,٠٥رفعت اسلسة يف الساعة    会议于 18 时 05 分结束