1.1 The President:   Good afternoon ladies and gentlemen. I declare open the sixth plenary meeting of the General Conference.   (The President continues in Chinese)
(1.2) (translation from the Chinese): Ladies and gentlemen, this afternoon, we have the very special privilege of  welcoming His Excellency Mr Rafael Correa, President of the Republic of Ecuador. Mr Correa is in many respects a unique  leader. He has studied in Belgium and the United States and has received a doctorate degree in economics from the  University of Illinois. Upon his return to Ecuador, Mr Correa continued his involvement in raising the education levels of his  country. He participated in the preparation of improvement programmes for the national education system. He also worked as  Professor of Economics at the University of Quito, before becoming Minister of Economy and Finance in 2005. A year later,  Rafael Correa was elected President of the Republic of Ecuador. He is currently serving his third term. Your Excellency, the  floor is yours.
(2.1) Mr Correa (President of Ecuador) (translation from the Spanish):   Mr Hao Ping, President of the 37th session of the General Conference of UNESCO, Ms Alissandra Cummins, Chair  of the Executive Board, Ms Irina Bokova, Director-General of UNESCO, ministers and heads of delegations to the Conference,  Mr Lautaro Pozo, Ambassador of Ecuador and Permanent Delegate to UNESCO, members of the Ecuadorian delegation,  representatives of the media: first, please excuse me; I believe that I am a little late. As I explained to Madam Director-General,  I was attending a meeting and a very enjoyable luncheon with President Hollande. However, it took a little longer than we  expected. Secondly, I have been given 20 minutes. Hopefully, I will be able to adjust to the time limit. I have been working hard  to achieve this but I do not know if I will succeed. I should like to use this important meeting to present some ideas to you. And,  before that, I should like to greet you with an everlasting embrace from the eco centre of the world, Ecuador, at this 37th  session of the General Conference of UNESCO.
(2.2) We hope that all of you will, one day, visit Ecuador, where there are four worlds: the marine coast, the Andean  mountains, the Amazon forest and the marvellous island region, our Galapagos Islands, the Enchanted Islands, a natural  heritage of humanity. All this in a territory of little more than 256,000 square kilometres, in which there are all the climates and  microclimates imaginable. In a single day, the tourist who is visiting us can eat breakfast on the beach enjoying freshly caught  seafood, then later have lunch on the slopes of the Cayambe, a magnificent glacier on the equator, and later dine in the  Amazon forest. The next day, after a one-hour flight, our dazzled tourist will already be in the Galapagos Islands, one of the  seven natural wonders of the world
(2.3) The multicolour range of our flora and fauna is further complemented and enriched by the diversity of our human  cultures. In addition to a mestizo majority (I, myself, am mestizo), Ecuador has 14 indigenous nationalities with their  corresponding ancestral languages, including two non-contacted populations that have chosen voluntary isolation in the heart  of the virgin forest. Our new Constitution of 2008 defines Ecuador as a unitary but plurinational and multicultural State.
2.4 The proudest Argentinians say: “The Pope is Argentinian”. Dilma Rousseff, President of Brazil and a dear friend  (Brazil, eternal rival of Argentina in football, of course) says: “Well, the Pope is Argentinian, but God is Brazilian”. We  Ecuadorians have no problem with that: of course the Pope is Argentinian, God is probably Brazilian, but there is no doubt  that...heaven is Ecuadorian! So, welcome to Ecuador.
(2.5) UNESCO was born in 1945, among the ashes of the Second World War, to “construct the defences of peace in the  minds of men”. In face of the holocaust, we consider peace to be solely the absence of war. In the twenty-first century, peace  is above all presence: the presence of justice, the presence of development. Ghandi already told us that poverty is the worst  form of violence and, more than 40 years ago, Pope Paul VI declared that development is the new name for peace.
(2.6) Peace without justice is only pacification. The offensive opulence of a few in Latin America alongside the most  intolerable poverty are also bullets, daily bullets against human dignity. Overcoming poverty, dear friends, is the world’s  highest moral imperative, since for the first time in the history of humanity, poverty is not the result of a scarcity of resources or  of natural causes but the product of unjust and exclusive systems.
(2.7) Let those who would steal from us such sublime concepts as freedom understand clearly: there is no freedom  without justice. Moreover, in regions with great inequality, as in Latin America, it is only in seeking justice that we will attain  true freedom. Although science and technology, one of the objectives of UNESCO, as mentioned earlier, are necessary,  development is not a technical problem, but fundamentally a political problem: who is in charge of a society? The elite or the  great majorities? Capital or human beings? Society or the market? This is the root of the European crisis: everything is based  on capital, especially financial capital. With the complicity of the so-called economic sciences and the international financial  bureaucracies, ideology is being disguised as science, and many Europeans are convinced that this is the way it should be.  But this is not the way it should be! The solution to the crisis is for citizens to regain control of capital and for society to regain  control of the market.
(2.8) Dear friends:  the problem with development is that many things are needed, not one of which is, in itself, sufficient.  Power can be in the hands of the great majority, we can achieve greater equity, but we only have poverty to share. That is why  science and technology are also fundamental to any new face of peace.
(2.9) I believe firmly in the transformative power of science and technology. Moreover, I place in them a large part of my  hope for the future of the planet, for the sustainability of our way of life, for the possibility of achieving well-being for all human  beings. For many years, I have believed that any attempt to consolidate into simplistic laws and principles – whether it is called  dialectical materialism or rational self-interest – a process as complex as the evolution of human society is doomed to failure. I  am also convinced that scientific and technological progress can lead to much greater well-being and can serve as better  drivers of social change than any class struggle or search for individual wealth.
(2.10) We need only to recall the industrial revolution, which transformed agrarian societies into industrial societies or,  much more recently, the spectacular progress in information technologies which transformed those industrial societies into  knowledge societies. In my view, the political, economic and social systems that will prevail in the future will be those that  enable the greatest scientific and technological progress, as well as, and this is very important, the best use of such progress  for the common good. Unfortunately, this gives rise to another political problem. In general, knowledge is a public good,  meaning that technically it cannot give rise to exclusion since everyone has access to knowledge, and there is no competition  in relation to using it since my use of a particular piece of knowledge does not prevent another person from also using it. Once  I own a piece of software, I can use it and another person can also use it and, usually, there is easy access to new software.  Attempts to privatize a public good through institutional means such as patents harm society as a whole since, if there is no  rivalry in its consumption, the more people who benefit from this already existing good, the greater the social welfare will be.  This is one of the well-known “market failures”.
(2.11)  A dramatic example of privatization of knowledge and forced exclusion is the high cost of certain drugs owing to  patenting. The high cost is supposedly justified because the company that created the new drug must have adequate  incentives to continue generating knowledge. The apparently pragmatic principle of the privatization of knowledge, in addition  to its social inefficiency, leads to only one thing - the subordination of human beings to capital. There are more effective means  of stimulating the production of knowledge. One alternative is greater participation of the academic world and the public sector  itself.  Another option is to have the State compensate for knowledge that is generated for profit, thus ensuring its availability to  humanity as a whole. The biggest problem with these alternatives is that they undermine ideological fundamentalisms and the  imperialism of capital.
(2.12) While it is mainly the wealthy countries that generate science and technology, countries like Ecuador also produce  public goods in the form of environmental goods. However, in this case, for all the pure air generated by the Amazon forest,  the lungs of the planet, without which human life would deteriorate drastically, the countries of the Amazon basin receive no  compensation, while, for their part, the major polluters pay absolutely nothing for the use of these environmental goods and it  is assumed that the production of environmental goods has no cost. The reality is that it can be very costly, not in terms of  direct costs but in what economists call “opportunity cost”.
(2.13) Today, many are demanding – without, incidentally, any credibility – that the oil in the Amazon should not be  exploited. But that would mean an immense cost in terms of unreceived income and in terms of each day that a child is  deprived of school, a community is deprived of potable water, or people die from fully avoidable illnesses. Genuine pathologies  of poverty. To illustrate the political problem that I mentioned, namely the relations of power, imagine for an instant that the  situation was reversed and the wealthy nations were generating environmental public goods and our countries were polluting.  We would surely already have been practically invaded in order to force us to pay just compensation.
(2.14) Dear friends: the world order is not only unjust, it is immoral. Everything is based on having the most power, and  double standards are everywhere. The global public goods produced by the poor countries must be free. The public goods  produced by the hegemonic countries must be paid for and subject to institutional barriers such as patents. The most  unfortunate aspect is that often the same poor countries participate enthusiastically in such absurd mechanisms.
(2.15) Directors, dear friends: I should like to use this forum to announce once again to the world an environmental disaster
85 times greater than the British Petroleum oil spill in the Gulf of Mexico in 2010 and 18 times greater than the Exxon Valdez  oil spill in Alaska in 1989. This is the pollution caused by Texaco, an oil company which has been operating in the Ecuadorian  Amazon since 1992 and which was bought by the transnational company Chevron in 2001.
(2.16) Chevron, the third largest company in the United States, was sued approximately 20 years ago by Amazon  indigenous communities affected by the pollution. It was a strictly private case: Amazonian communities vs. Chevron-Texaco.  Chevron spent the previous decade fighting not to be tried in the courts of New York, where the business is domiciled, but  rather where it allegedly committed the offence, namely in Sucumbios, a province of Ecuador. Since it lost the case and was  condemned to pay a large amount, Chevron has spent these past ten years destroying the same courts that it so
120  enthusiastically defended when it believed that it could buy them off, and has wasted hundreds of millions of dollars on a  worldwide campaign to discredit Ecuador. Furthermore, it has brought suit against the State of Ecuador, invoking the  Agreement on the Reciprocal Promotion and Protection of Investments signed with the United States, claiming that in 1998 it  had signed with the Government then in power a settlement agreement certifying that it had undertaken the appropriate  environmental remediation.
(2.17) First of all, the agreement on investments is not applicable to lawsuits between private parties and, second, the most  serious issue is that Texaco left the country in 1992 and the new agreement with the United States entered into force in 1997,  five years later. In an unheard of move, the arbitral tribunal declared itself competent and, what is more, suspended the  sentence handed down by the Ecuadorian courts against Chevron, dealing a fatal blow to our country’s sovereignty and the  independence of our courts.
(2.18) In addition to the legal anomaly of applying an agreement retroactively, the world must be made aware of how such  agreements undermine our sovereignty, how these arbitration bodies are completely co-opted by the transnational companies,  and how in this highly unjust world order, wealth possesses more rights than human beings.
(2.19) On the American continent, if a State fails to respect human rights, all remedies before the national courts must be  exhausted before the case can be heard by the inter-American courts. Yet, any transnational company can bring, without prior  recourse, a sovereign State before these arbitration bodies where capital reigns supreme.
(2.20) Lastly, in respect of the alleged clean-up done by Chevron-Texaco, we once again invite them to come to Ecuador  and put their hands into the hundreds of pools left by Texaco: their hands will come out covered with tar. Twenty years after  the oil company left the country and allegedly took remedial environmental measures, it is the filthy hand of Chevron that has  corrupted previous administrations. In face of the power and the thousands of millions of dollars of Chevron-Texaco, in face of  the infamy of this corrupt and corrupting company, Ecuador will use the most lethal weapon ever invented: the truth.
(2.21) Dear Members of the Bureau, dear friends: UNESCO’s mission is to contribute to the consolidation of peace, the  eradication of poverty, sustainable development and intercultural dialogue. But we need less charity and more justice.  Avoiding the privatization of knowledge and ensuring its availability to humanity as a whole would provide a basic incentive for  the development of the poorest countries, which do not need limousines, but human talent, science and technology.
(2.22) Recognition of compensation for environmental goods would lead to an enormous redistribution of income at the  international level which would help to end poverty and consolidate sustainable development. No one is more aware than I am  that, given the existing relations of power in the world and the actual state of humanity, this is a utopian idea. But UNESCO  was born to create utopias.  As Eduardo Galeano, a dear friend, Uruguayan writer and author of Las venas abiertas de  América Latina, said: “Utopia is like a horizon, when we take two steps, it is two steps farther away; when we take ten steps, it  is ten steps farther away. So, what is the point of utopias? The point is that they make us do exactly that – move forward”.  Thank you.
(3) The President (translation from the Chinese):   Thank you for your speech, Your Excellency Mr Correa, President of the Republic of Ecuador. You have presented  the history and culture of Ecuador and covered topics of common concern such as peace, elimination of hunger and poverty  reduction. Your speech has greatly enriched the Leader’s Forum of the 37th session of the General Conference of UNESCO. I  propose that we thank Mr President with another warm round of applause.  The meeting is suspended from 3.50 to 3.55 p.m. while His Excellency   Mr Rafael Correa, President of Ecuador, is escorted from the room.  General policy debate (continued)  Débat de politique générale (suite)  Debate de política general (continuación)  Обсуждение вопросов общей политики (продолжение)  جتابع)مناقشة السياسة العامة    总政策辩论（续）
4. The President:    Ladies and gentlemen, we will now continue with the national statements. I now have the honour to call our first  speaker, His Excellency, Mr Adkham Ikramov, Deputy Prime Minister of the Republic of Uzbekistan. Please, Your  Excellency.
5.1 Mr Ikramov (Uzbekistan):   Your Excellency Mr President of the General Conference, Madam Chair of the Executive Board, Madam  Director-General, Your Excellencies, ministers, ladies and gentlemen. Your Excellency, Mr Hao Ping, allow me to extend  my congratulations on your election to the high post of the President of the General Conference and to sincerely wish  you great success in your leadership of our Organization. Also I would like to express my gratitude to Ms Katalina  Bogyay for her excellent leadership during the past two years.
5.2 Today we are in the process of transition to four-year planning of UNESCO programmes with an eight-year  Medium-Term Strategy. It is important to mention that these reforms are being undertaken in conditions of ongoing
121  financial challenges in UNESCO’s regular budget. The success of ongoing reforms will significantly depend on joint  commitment and consolidation of efforts among UNESCO Member States, as well as on the sustainable development of  partnership relations with international, regional and national organizations and the private sector.
5.3 An alternative option for UNESCO’s budget for 2014-2015 with the amount of $507 million, suggested by the  Director-General, focuses on activities for priority programmes. The Republic of Uzbekistan supports initiatives by the  Director-General aimed at decreasing administrative expenses and increasing expenditure on programme activities,  applying an interdisciplinary approach in relation to each UNESCO project.
5.4 Ladies and gentlemen, a four-year planning cycle was prepared to coordinate UNESCO programmes with other  agencies of the United Nations family. A new programme, to be approved during the current session, will cover the  preparation period and initial stages of implementation of the post-2015 development agenda. Therefore, we have to  develop a flexible and clear mechanism of programme management which should include both the methodology of a  sunset clause and initiation of new projects. Our Organization should maintain a leading role in its areas of competence.
5.5 Another important aspect of current reforms includes gradual transition to result-based budgeting. This approach  assumes that planning of expected outcomes should be based on an efficiency assessment by direct beneficiaries. Thus,  the Secretariat of the Organization is entrusted with the responsible task of intensifying the interaction between National  Commissions for UNESCO and the delegation of more powers to UNESCO field offices in Member States.
5.6 Madam Director-General, Uzbekistan congratulates you on your nomination for a second term of office as the  Director-General of the Organization. Now we need to jointly seek new forms of cooperation. Taking into consideration  financial constraints at UNESCO, we propose some opportunities to make the activities of the Organization visible in the  sphere of innovative projects.
5.7 At the end of August in Uzbekistan, with the personal participation of Madam Director-General, we successfully  held the traditional ninth “Sharq Taronalari” International Music Festival, held regularly in Samarkand since 1997 under  the initiative of His Excellency, Mr Islam Karimov, President of the Republic of Uzbekistan. More than 400 artists and  musicians from more than 50 countries of the world took part in this forum of cultures. This festival is a particular  example of the practical realization of UNESCO’s Convention for the Protection of the World Cultural and Natural  Heritage, the Convention for the Safeguarding of the Intangible Cultural Heritage   and the Convention on the Protection  and Promotion of the Diversity of Cultural Expressions. Another example may be cooperation aimed at a practical  realization of UNESCO’s initiative on building a knowledge-based society. Every year the newly-opened national library  complex in the capital city of Tashkent becomes a platform for international fora aimed at ensuring free access to  achievements in education, and the natural and social sciences.
5.8. In our view, UNESCO programmes should be focused on a number of feasible priority objectives through wide  use of the potential of UNESCO’s Associated Schools Project Network (ASPnet), UNEVOC Centres, UNESCO Chairs  and UNESCO category 2 centres. In this regard, we believe it is important to share and disseminate the unique  experience of the International Institute for Central Asian Studies in Samarkand, established under the auspices of  UNESCO in 1995. The Institute makes practical contributions to the achievement of UNESCO’s strategic objectives on  the basis of regional cooperation among academic establishments along the Great Silk Road. Once more, let me  express our sincere gratitude on behalf of the delegation of the Republic of Uzbekistan and wish you all health and  success. Thank you for your attention.
6. The President:   Thank you Your Excellency. Our next speaker is His Excellency, Honourable Tan Sri Muhyiddin Mohd Yassin,  Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Education of Malaysia. Your Excellency, please.
7.1 Mr Yassin (Malaysia):    As-salāmu ‘alaikum wa-rahmatu llāhi wa-barakātuh (peace and the mercy and blessings of God be upon you).  Mr President of the 37th session of the General Conference, Ms lrina Bokova, Director-General of UNESCO, Ms  Alissandra Cummins, Chair of the Executive Board, Excellencies, distinguished delegates, ladies and gentlemen, a very  good afternoon to you all. I am deeply honoured to be here at the 37th session of the UNESCO General Conference.  Please allow me to express our heartfelt appreciation to Ms lrina Bokova, whom we had the pleasure of hosting on her  first official visit to Malaysia in May this year. At this juncture, I would also like to congratulate Palestine and South Sudan  for joining us in UNESCO.
7.2 The global conversation has opened on the post-2015 agenda to which we must all contribute. We believe  UNESCO plays a vital role in mobilizing its strength, ensuring progress in education, the sciences, culture,  communication and information. These form the building blocks for an inclusive and knowledgeable global community.  Malaysia’s commitment to UNESCO and its determination to support developing nations in reaching the Millennium  Development Goals (MDGs) by 2015 is demonstrated through the signing of the Malaysia UNESCO Cooperation  Programme (MUCP) in 2011, followed by the establishment of the Malaysian Funds-in-Trust in April 2013. Through this  cooperation, Malaysia could contribute for the benefit of least developed countries (LDCs) and small island developing  States (SIDS), as well as for Africa, among others.
7.3 Malaysia is committed to providing accessible and equitable education to its people towards achieving education  for all (EFA). For example, we have worked towards providing access to education for students undergoing treatment  through our “Schools in Hospitals” programme which was established in 2011. A total of eight schools in hospitals have  been operationalized which provide the opportunity for students to keep up with their peers in mainstream schools. ln  addition, marginalized groups in remote areas are assisted through comprehensive model schools to meet the  educational needs of indigenous children. As an enabler of greater social mobility, competitive growth and wealth
122  creation, Malaysia believes that quality education provides the best return on investment with respect to the standards of  its human capital. To this end, Malaysia is gearing towards an education system that serves the needs of its young  citizens in preparing them for the global demands of the twenty-first century. Our goals and aspirations for the education  system are envisaged through the formulation of the “Malaysia Education Blueprint 2013-2025” which was launched in  September 2013. The blueprint focuses on five key pillars which are access, quality, equity, unity and efficiency. Quality,  however, is the central principle cutting across all dimensions in pursuit of a system that is dynamically adapted to the  ever-changing developmental landscape, locally and globally.
7.4 Excellencies, ladies and gentlemen, science, technology and innovation (STI) is one of our utmost priorities.  Through the International Science, Technology and Innovation Centre (ISTIC), we hope to continuously reinforce and  forge our partnership in promoting South-South cooperation and supporting UNESCO’s science programmes. ISTIC has  been facilitating the integration of a developmental approach into our national STI policies which focuses on capacity  building, providing a platform for policy advice, exchange of experiences and best practices. To date, a total of 1,585  personnel from 82 developing countries have directly benefited from the 33 capacity-building programmes that ISTIC has  conducted over the past five years.
7.5 As a multi-ethnic nation, Malaysia is blessed with a rich and diverse intangible heritage and culture. Over the  centuries, we have remained steadfast in ensuring their preservation, embraced fully from one generation to the next.  Our commitment to UNESCO on this front is reinforced by the ratification of the 2003 Convention for the Safeguarding of  the Intangible Cultural Heritage, which was deposited with the Director-General of UNESCO on 23 July 2013. ln this area,  we certainly wish to see greater cooperation with UNESCO in the near future. The present biennium has indeed been  one of great challenges, with a fiscal budget outlay that impedes the full implementation of the Programme and Budget  endorsed by the previous General Conference. In spite of this, Member States have seen progress and noteworthy  performances in most areas undertaken by UNESCO. At this juncture, Malaysia would like to thank the Director-General,  the Members of the Executive Board and the Secretariat of UNESCO for their prudent stewardship of UNESCO’s  Programme and Budget. I would also like to compliment other Member States as well for their undivided support in  running the show during a time of fiscal hardship. Having said this, I wish to express Malaysia’s optimism that we will  overcome obstacles in implementing our major programmes covering UNESCO’s sectoral priorities, and with sufficient  collective wisdom, we will prevail to achieve the desired goals, inshāʾ Allāh. As-salāmu ‘alaikum wa-rahmatu llāhi wa- barakātuh. Thank you.
8. The President:   Thank you Your Excellency. Our next speaker is His Excellency, Mr Luvsanvandan Bold, Minister for Foreign  Affairs of Mongolia. Your Excellency, please.
9.1 Mr Bold (Mongolia):   Mr President, Madam Chair of the Executive Board, Madam Director-General, Excellencies, distinguished  delegates, on behalf of the delegation of Mongolia and in my own name, I would like to congratulate you, Mr President,  and the other members of the Bureau on your unanimous election and express my confidence that under your skilful  leadership the General Conference will achieve successful outcomes. Allow me to assure you of the full support and  cooperation of my delegation in the deliberations and work of the General Conference. We warmly welcome the  delegation of Anguilla in joining UNESCO as its ninth Associate Member and wish her fruitful cooperation within the  UNESCO family. lt gives me great pleasure to extend our sincere congratulations to the Director-General of UNESCO,  Ms lrina Bokova, on her nomination for re-election to the post of Director-General for the next term, and wish her every  success in her future endeavours.
9.2 Mr President, UNESCO-led global programmes and projects yielded fruitful outcomes for advancing  development priorities, such as improving access to universal quality education, combating illiteracy, providing  sustainable development with science and evidence-based policies, supporting and strengthening multiculturalism and  intercultural dialogue, building knowledge-based societies through the effective use of information and communication  technology and promoting global citizenship. However, emerging new trends and challenges force us to unite our voices  and make collective and resolute decisions for achieving sustainable development and lasting peace. We need to  mobilize all our efforts in order to achieve the internationally-agreed Millennium Development Goals by 2015 and the  education for all (EFA) goals. ln this regard, Mongolia highly appreciates UNESCO’s active involvement in the ongoing  post-2015 development agenda debates within its mandate. Taking this opportunity, I would like to emphasize that  UNESCO has been substantially contributing to the social and economic development of Mongolia through its  multifaceted activities aimed at providing policy and technical advice as well as national capacity building in the fields of  education, science, culture, communication and information.
9.3 The Government of Mongolia has defined the “green economy” as a main pillar of its sustainable development  and is currently developing a national policy framework for a green economy. We believe that our successful cooperation  with UNESCO in the field of sustainable development education will bring closer our objective to develop the green  economy and instil a policymaking approach based on the nature-man relationship at each and every level of  administration.
9.4 Mongolia is a nation with rich natural and cultural heritage. I am pleased to note that in recent years, several  examples of national heritage have been inscribed on UNESCO’s lists of the tangible and intangible heritage. We are  committed to continuing our cooperation with UNESCO in preserving, restoring, advertising and conducting research into  our internationally recognized and registered heritage. The Government of Mongolia is looking forward to expanding  further its cooperation with UNESCO for building national capacity to fight against the trafficking of cultural objects.
9.5 Mr President, as the Director-General rightly stated at the recent UNESCO World Innovation Summit for  Education panel, organized in Doha, and I quote, “we need to rethink the fundamentals of education for new times – to  strengthen human rights, to deepen respect and mutual understanding, to respond to a world of change”. Mongolia is  determined to contribute to UNESCO’s agenda of learning to live together through its global initiatives on literacy and  education for democracy. On this occasion, I would like to thank the United Nations family for its continuous support of  Mongolia’s initiatives in recent years. ln this respect, I am pleased to note that a week ago, at Mongolia’s initiative, the  resolution entitled “Literacy for Life: Shaping Future Agendas” was unanimously approved by the Third Committee at the
68th session of the United Nations General Assembly.
9.6  As you are all aware, Mongolia has successfully held the Presidency of the Community of Democracies for the  past two years. During this term, Mongolia initiated a resolution on education for democracy, which was approved by the  United Nations General Assembly last year. Moreover, together with our Canadian partners, we have developed  “Education for Democracy: A Curriculum Framework”. The framework focuses on encouraging active democratic  citizenship and provides guidance on how to educate for democracy, and not just what to teach. Mongolia is willing to  cooperate with UNESCO and other fellow Member States in promoting education for democracy.
9.7 Mr President, in conclusion, I would like to reiterate my delegation’s strong commitment to working together with  other Member States towards strengthening UNESCO so that it remains a centre of excellence for advancing education,  culture, sciences, and communication and information worldwide. Thank you for your attention.
10. The President:   Thank you Your Excellency. Our next speaker is His Excellency, Mr George Moyen, Minister of Higher  Education of Congo.
11.1 M. Moyen (Congo) :   Monsieur le Président de la 37e session de la Conférence générale, Madame Ia Présidente du Conseil exécutif,  Madame Ia Directrice générale de I’UNESCO, Mesdames et Messieurs les délégués, Mesdames et Messieurs, je tiens  avant tout à saluer l’ensemble des délégations venues de toutes les régions de notre planète. Je me réjouis de constater  que, par leur présence en nombre, elles confirment l’importance toujours actuelle des idéaux que I’UNESCO a pour  mission de promouvoir. Je voudrais ensuite féliciter Monsieur le Président pour son élection, ainsi que les membres du  Bureau. Je saisis l’occasion qui m’est offerte ici de féliciter une fois encore Mme Irina Bokova, qui a été brillamment  reconduite dans ses fonctions de Directrice générale par le Conseil exécutif. Puissiez-vous, Madame Ia Directrice  générale, continuer de conjuguer quotidiennement dextérité, pondération et efficacité dans Ia recherche de solutions  pertinentes pour le bien de notre organisation commune.
11.2 Monsieur le Président, Mesdames et Messieurs les délégués, la stratégie 2008-2013 était initialement  annonciatrice d’une période pleine de promesses, grâce à une réforme qui devait renforcer Ia place spécifique de  l’UNESCO à Ia poursuite des objectifs globaux de développement des Nations Unies, particulièrement les Objectifs du  Millénaire. La remise en cause partielle ou totale de certains programmes en raison des difficultés financières qu’a  connues l’Organisation ces deux dernières années a reporté ou réduit les effets dynamisants que nous étions tous en  droit d’attendre de cette stratégie.
11.3 En dépit de la morosité de la conjoncture, Ia coopération a été particulièrement renforcée et rendue plus  productive grâce à Ia rationalisation des moyens mobilisés. Au niveau national, nous avons pu apprécier l’efficacité de la  participation de l’UNESCO aux efforts conjoints des Nations Unies. Nous avons également pu mesurer les progrès  accomplis au titre de la réforme du dispositif hors Siège, qui rapproche l’UNESCO des réalités du terrain. Par l’entremise  du Bureau de pays de Brazzaville, l’UNESCO s’est impliquée de façon proactive dans tout le processus de  rétablissement de la paix, à l’issue des conflits armés qu’a connus le Congo.
11.4 En matière d’éducation, d’une façon générale, les capacités stratégiques, infrastructurelles et pédagogiques ont  été renforcées. II convient ici de noter la généralisation par le Gouvernement de la République de la gratuité de  l’enseignement public. Le domaine des sciences a bénéficié, entre autres, d’un appui à l’élaboration d’une politique  scientifique nationale et de l’innovation, laquelle est devenue un modèle pour d’autres pays.
11.5 S’agissant de la culture, on retiendra Ia ratification de conventions, l’inscription d’un site sur Ia Liste du  patrimoine mondial et l’admission très récente de Brazzaville dans le Réseau de villes créatives de I’UNESCO.  Aujourd’hui, le Congo se prépare, avec d’autres pays africains, à mettre en œuvre un programme de formation  d’enseignants en vue de combler le déficit de qualité de l’enseignement. Dans cette perspective, mon pays souscrit aux  impératifs de la réforme qui s’articule sur Ia stratégie consistant, entre autres, à recentrer l’action de l’Organisation dans  ses domaines de compétence et à Ia rapprocher davantage des réalités du terrain. Dans ce contexte de réforme, le  Congo reconnaît le progrès que représente le cadre de partenariat avec les commissions nationales proposé par le  groupe de travail tripartite et approuvé par le Conseil exécutif.
11.6 Monsieur le Président, Mesdames et Messieurs les délégués, comme nous le révèlent les analyses pertinentes  des Nations Unies, malgré des indices de développement économique satisfaisants, le déficit de I’Afrique dans les  domaines qui sont Ia raison d’être de notre organisation est flagrant. Aussi Ia paix et Ia stabilité apparaissent-elles au  nombre des besoins de première nécessité en Afrique, en raison de la relation évidente qu’elles entretiennent avec le  développement durable.
11.7 S’agissant des deux priorités globales, à savoir I’Afrique et l’Ègalité des genres, le Congo approuve leur  reconduction. L’histoire des nations, particulièrement celle des nations africaines, l’amère expérience des guerres  vécues par les peuples dans Ieur chair et dans leur esprit, nous enseignent qu’il faut impérativement dynamiser tous les
124  mécanismes institutionnels propres à instaurer ou restaurer la paix. Cette haute considération pour la paix est au cœur  de la conception du développement de Son Excellence Denis Sassou N’Guesso, Président de la République du Congo.
11.8 Mesdames et Messieurs les délégués, comme chacune de nos rencontres, cette Conférence devrait donner à  notre institution les meilleures chances de se montrer efficiente et opérationnelle, de prescrire des principes de bon sens  élémentaire à chacun des États membres et de renforcer son engagement, pour qu’au-delà des contributions spéciales  versées au Fonds d’urgence, auquel le Congo a souscrit, le Projet de programme et de budget 2014-2017 soumis à  notre approbation puisse permettre à l’UNESCO de contribuer à régler les innombrables problèmes auxquels Ia  communauté internationale fait face.
11.9 Au Congo, notre conviction, fondée sur notre histoire récente, est que seule une éducation inclusive et de  qualité, dispensée jusqu’aux endroits les plus reculés du territoire national, sera en mesure de transformer l’existence  des jeunes filles et des jeunes garçons et d’entretenir parmi les couches les plus vulnérables de nos populations  l’espérance et l’aspiration à une vie de progrès. Le monde d’aujourd’hui n’a donc aucun intérêt à ce que l’UNESCO  s’affaiblisse. Voilà pourquoi je tiens à lancer, au nom de ma délégation, un vibrant appel au ressaisissement collectif, afin  que I’UNESCO retrouve Ia plénitude de ses moyens et son entière capacité d’action. L’accomplissement de ses idéaux  et l’affirmation d’une humanité digne de ce siècle sont aussi à ce prix. Monsieur le Président, Mesdames et Messieurs, je  vous remercie.
12. The President:    Thank you Your Excellency. Our next speaker is His Excellency, Mr Aloízio Mercadante, Minister of Education of  Brazil. Please, Your Excellency.
13.1 M. Mercadante (Brésil):    (Discours prononcé en portugais ; texte français fourni par la délégation):   Monsieur le Président de la Conférence générale, Madame la Présidente du Conseil exécutif, Madame la  Directrice générale, Mesdames et Messieurs les Ministres et Délégués permanents, Mesdames et Messieurs, en premier  lieu, je souhaiterais souligner le rôle fondamental que joue I’UNESCO, par le biais de l'éducation, dans la promotion de  la paix, du développement durable et de la coopération. L’UNESCO est depuis fort longtemps un partenaire essentiel  pour le développement du Brésil, particulièrement dans les secteurs stratégiques de I’éducation et de la culture.
13.2 Sous la présidence de Mme Rousseff, ce partenariat devient de plus en plus étroit et significatif. Le Brésil a  choisi I’éducation, la science, l’innovation et la technologie comme grandes priorités stratégiques. Comme chacun le sait,  notre pays a fait d'énormes progrès au cours de cette dernière décennie, dépassant considérablement la moyenne  mondiale en ce qui concerne l'élimination de l'extrême pauvreté et la réduction des grandes inégalités sociales. Grâce à  des programmes sociaux innovants, tels que « Bolsa Familia » (Bourse Famille) ou « Brasil Carinhoso » (Brésil câlin), le  Brésil est parvenu à éradiquer presque complètement l'extrême pauvreté et à réduire substantiellement ses indices de  disparité sociale. En une décennie à peine, quarante millions de personnes ont franchi le seuil de pauvreté extrême.  Dans la même période, notre indice de Gini a baissé de 0,64 à 0,54.
13.3 Aujourd’hui, pour la première fois de son histoire, mon pays conjugue croissance économique, réduction rapide  des disparités et de la pauvreté, et pleine démocratie. Nous avons réussi à créer une vaste classe moyenne et à  développer un marché intérieur de consommation de masse. Parallèlement, nous avons consolidé la jeune démocratie  brésilienne et ses institutions de contrôle. Mais cela ne suffit pas. Il nous reste beaucoup à faire. On ne saurait se  contenter de redistribuer indéfiniment les revenus à l'aide de ces politiques sociales. Nous ne pourrons pas non plus  continuer de nous développer sans accroître la compétitivité de notre économie, spécialement dans le secteur industriel,  et sans augmenter significativement notre capacité de produire des innovations technologiques. Le grand défi  stratégique qu’il nous faut relever consiste donc à tirer profit des avantages comparatifs du pays – tels que l’abondance  des ressources naturelles, la structure productive raisonnablement intégrée et diversifiée, le profil démographique et le  cumul engendré par le cycle récent de développement – pour bâtir une économie durable et créative et une vraie société  du savoir. Nous sommes donc tout à fait conscients que ce processus exige des investissements considérables dans les  domaines de l’éducation, des sciences et des nouvelles technologies.
13.4 Comme I’a souligné Mme Rousseff, et comme je l'ai déjà dit à l'occasion du Forum des dirigeants, « la fin de la  misère n'est qu'un commencement ». Et ce commencement se produit justement lorsqu'est mise en valeur l'importance  stratégique de la connaissance. Cette mise en valeur prend corps aujourd'hui sous la forme de programmes et  d'initiatives visant à rendre plus accessible l'enseignement et à en élever la qualité, de l'école élémentaire jusqu'à  l'enseignement post-diplôme. La durée de l'éducation fondamentale est passée à 9 ans ; l’enseignement a été rendu  obligatoire dès l’âge de 4 ans et jusqu'à 17 ans. Nous développons actuellement un grand programme de construction  de crèches. Nous avons mis en place un important programme d'alphabétisation de nos enfants à un âge conforme aux  règles, de façon à mettre un terme à l’abandon scolaire et aux redoublements et à permettre à tous nos enfants de  connaître une évolution pédagogique. Nous investissons énormément dans les écoles à temps complet, ce qui est  impératif pour améliorer la qualité de l'enseignement primaire, et dans la formation et la valorisation de nos enseignants,  moyennant, entre autres mesures, I’établissement, pour l'ensemble du corps enseignant, d'un salaire de base uniforme  dans tout le pays.
13.5 Nous avons redonné un rôle important à I’enseignement professionnel et technologique, en reconnaissant son  importance dans la formation des jeunes et ses bénéfices pour la production. Nous avons triplé le nombre d'instituts  d'enseignement technique dans le pays. Le projet novateur d'enseignement technique et professionnel « Pronatec » a  déjà permis d'inscrire à des cours professionnels cinq millions de jeunes, chiffre qui devrait atteindre les 8 millions d'ici
2014. Concernant l'enseignement supérieur, en l'espace d'une décennie à peine, nous avons enregistré une  augmentation de 150 % du nombre d'inscriptions. Il ne s'agit pas d'une simple augmentation linéaire mais, surtout, de
125  l'augmentation du nombre d'inscrits issus des couches les plus défavorisées de la population. Ainsi, le programme  « Prouni » offre plus d'un million de bourses gratuites,  tandis que le financement subventionné proposé dans le cadre  du programme « Fies »permet à plus d'un million de jeunes issus de milieux défavorisés de s’inscrire dans  l'enseignement supérieur privé. Nous avons adopté une politique de quotas pour permettre aux étudiants aux revenus  bas et à la population noire et indigène d'accéder aux universités publiques.
13.6 Cette nouvelle mise en valeur stratégique de la connaissance a été récemment renforcée, au Brésil, par la  décision historique prise par le gouvernement de Mme Rousseff, déjà approuvée par le Congrès, d'octroyer à l'éducation
75 % des redevances issues de la production pétrolière. Il s'agit là d'un investissement fondamental pour les prochaines  générations de Brésiliens et pour l'avenir du pays. Nous transformons une richesse non renouvelable, le pétrole, en une  richesse sociale intarissable, la connaissance. En outre, le Brésil déploie des efforts considérables en ce qui concerne la  mobilité académique et la coopération en matière d’éducation. Le programme novateur « Ciencia Sem Fronteiras »  (Science sans frontières), qui a déjà distribué plus de cinquante-cinq mille bourses, contribue à internationaliser la  science brésilienne et à offrir des opportunités inédites à des milliers de jeunes Brésiliens.
13.7 Le Brésil est un important agent de coopération éducative et technique pour de nombreux pays, particulièrement  en Afrique et en Amérique latine. Nous conduisons des projets structurants dans les domaines de la production  alimentaire, de la fabrication de médicaments et du développement conjugué de l'éducation, des sciences et de la  technologie. Je tiens enfin à souligner I'importance de I'élaboration du neuvième tome de l’« Histoire générale de  I’Afrique », destiné à faire connaître la grande influence des cultures africaines dans le monde. Voilà pourquoi nous  estimons au plus haut point notre partenariat avec I’UNESCO et nous soutenons pleinement l'Initiative mondiale pour  l'éducation avant tout (GEFI) lancée par le Secrétaire général de I'ONU pour consolider le programme d'éducation de  I’UNESCO. Grâce à son leadership dans les débats mondiaux sur l'éducation, I’UNESCO doit promouvoir une  discussion transparente et approfondie sur les processus de collecte de données et le développement d'outils  d'évaluation intégrant les volets indissociables de la qualité et de l'inclusion sociale dans les politiques éducatives. Dans  le domaine de la coopération scientifique, je tiens à inviter à nouveau tous les pays à participer au Forum mondial sur la  science, qui se tiendra à Rio de Janeiro du 24 au 27 novembre prochains. Dans le domaine de la recherche  océanographique, le jeune lnstitut national d'océanographie du Brésil promet de nouvelles opportunités de coopération.
13.8 L'initiative SESAME de I’UNESCO trouvera dans notre Laboratoire national de rayonnement synchrotron un  important partenaire pour des programmes d'échange. Dans le domaine du sport et de l’éducation physique, le Brésil,  qui accueillera la prochaine Coupe du monde et les Jeux olympiques de 2016, attribue une importance toute particulière  à la lutte contre le dopage. Le Brésil a présenté une proposition qui renforce la défense de la culture et de la diversité  culturelle en tant qu'éléments fondamentaux de l'agenda post-2015, en ligne avec le document final de la Conférence  Rio + 20. Notre engagement s'exprime aussi par des investissements dans la préservation de notre patrimoine culturel  national pour un montant supérieur à 700 millions de dollars des États-Unis. Dans le domaine de la communication et de  I'information, l'Internet est aujourd'hui un patrimoine vital et stratégique pour l'humanité entière, un élément fondamental  pour l'agenda du développement, particulièrement pour I’éducation. Cependant, étant donné qu'il demeure sous la  gouvernance d'une poignée d'entreprises appartenant à un seul et même pays, l'Internet est récemment devenu la  scène d'une guerre cybernétique d'espionnage qui risque d'entraîner une perte de confiance, de freiner la libre  coopération et de porter atteinte aux droits fondamentaux, comme le droit à la vie privée ou le droit à la liberté  d’expression. Mon pays a été violemment atteint par de telles pratiques.
13.9  C'est sans doute également le cas d'autres pays ici représentés. Nous devons conjuguer nos efforts au niveau  multilatéral afin de garantir que ce patrimoine de l'humanité soit mis au service de la paix, de la coopération, du  rassemblement des peuples et des cultures, de la liberté d'information. C'est pourquoi le Brésil soutient pleinement le  renforcement de l'action de I’UNESCO dans la promotion de l'éthique et des droits et garanties individuels dans le  cyberespace. Nous encourageons I'UNESCO à poursuivre ses efforts pour mettre fin à la fracture numérique et pour  stimuler l'utilisation des TIC en tant qu'outils éducatifs. L’Internet, dont l'âme est la liberté, doit être partagé, au nom de  I’éducation et de l'intégration des peuples. Un nouveau cadre civil mondial pour l'Internet et le renforcement de celui-ci  en tant qu'outil éducatif devraient constituer l'un des fers de lance de I’UNESCO pour pallier aux pratiques d'espionnage  et au risque de régression que pourraient causer des politiques de contrôle et de restriction de la liberté. Nous avons  appris, au cours des dernières années, qu'il est possible de forger un monde nouveau, qu'il est possible d'atteindre la  croissance par la redistribution des revenus, de grandir sans pour autant porter atteinte à l'environnement ; qu'il est  possible, enfin, d'allier croissance, inclusion, préservation et conservation. La leçon que nous avons apprise, nous  devons l'inclure dans le nouveau programme de développement pour l'après-2015et étendre encore cet horizon du  possible. Nous devons être ambitieux et courageux. Par son exemple et son expérience récente, le Brésil est disposé à  contribuer à la réalisation de toutes ces nouvelles possibilités. Les enfants et les jeunes de cette planète le méritent bien.  Je vous remercie.
14. The President:   Thank you Your Excellency. Our next speaker is His Excellency, Mr José Ignacio Wert Ortega, Minister of  Education, Culture and Sport of Spain. Your Excellency, please.
(15.1) Mr Ortega (Spain) (translation from the Spanish):   Mr President of the General Conference, Madam Chair of the Executive Board, Madam Director-General, delegates,  ministers, ladies and gentlemen: it is an honour for me to participate on behalf of Spain in the General Conference and to  emphasize our commitment to the values of multilateralism as represented by the United Nations. In that context, Spain has  submitted its candidacy to the Security Council as a non-permanent member for the 2015-2016 biennium. Our support for the  United Nations includes a close relationship with UNESCO.
(15.2) I should like, Madam Director-General, to emphasize our willingness to continue cooperating with the Organization  despite the difficult economic situation. In a situation like the one we are currently facing, the mandates of UNESCO are  particularly important. As a country with an enormous historical and cultural tradition and great biological diversity, Spain has
44 properties inscribed on the World Heritage List and 13 on the Representative List of the Intangible Cultural Heritage of  Humanity, 45 reserves in the World Network of Biosphere Reserves, five archives in the Memory of the World Register and  one city in the Creative Cities Network.
(15.3) Spain’s important cooperation with UNESCO is evident in all the fields of the Organization’s mandate.  With respect  to education, I should like to mention the Global Education First Initiative of the Secretary-General of the United Nations.  Education is vital to the building of more prosperous, sustainable and peaceful societies. Spain endorses firmly the efforts of  UNESCO to achieve universal education, in particular through the education for all programme and the “Support Malala”  initiative. UNESCO believes that in order to achieve education for all, it is essential to provide quality education. Consequently,  following the efforts made in the promotion of literacy, continuing education and improvement of public policy, it is time to  improve the quality of education systems with a view to achieving better academic results, especially in the basic skills.
(15.4) The Government of Spain has undertaken a major legislative reform designed to improve academic outcomes.  Giving greater autonomy to schools and encouraging leadership in management teams are some of the measures under the  reform, reflecting one of UNESCO’s strategies, namely, the development of “responsive, participatory and accountable  systems of educational governance and management”, with a view to achieving efficiency, responsibility, transparency and  flexibility. We should not neglect improving the professional skills of teacher. The quality of the teaching staff is an essential  factor in bolstering the education system.
(15.5) Education is undoubtedly one of the basic policies of any advanced society. Our young people must have quality  education that ensures their personal development and prepares them to join the labour force. It has always been so, but now  more than ever.
(15.6) In the field of culture, Spain is a country of reference for cultural heritage issues, owing to both the wealth and variety  of its heritage and its experience in developing strategies to protect it. It has carried out initiatives such as the annual meeting  of managers of world heritage sites, and the World Heritage Youth Forum, the aim of which is to improve management and  make the younger generations aware of the need to recognize and preserve our heritage.
15.7 With respect to the intangible cultural heritage, the national safeguarding plan has been submitted and will give rise  to new legislative measures that should maximize compliance with the UNESCO convention in this field.
(15.8) Spain has also been supporting, through new initiatives, the Convention on the Protection of the Underwater Cultural  Heritage and the Convention on the Means of Prohibiting and Preventing the Illicit Import, Export and Transfer of Ownership of  Cultural Property.
(15.9) With regard to the natural, social and human sciences, Spain has submitted its candidacy to the International  Coordinating Council of the Programme on Man and the Biosphere. I am confident that approval will be granted to the  proposal to establish, in Castellet i la Gornal, the International Centre on Mediterranean Biosphere Reserves, two coastlines  united by their culture and their natural environment, as a category 2 centre.
(15.10) Spain has returned to the Executive Council of the Intergovernmental Oceanographic Commission, and in 2014 the  International Ocean Research Conference will be held in Barcelona.
(15.11) In the field of clean sport, Spain, with the recent adoption of a new law, is now in the vanguard of the combat against  doping. It has a special independent agency with full capacity for monitoring and for handling disciplinary procedures. Spain  champions transparency, the ethical dimension of sport, and good health for athletes.
(15.12) With regard to communication and information, Spain supports UNESCO’s efforts to guarantee the safety of  journalists and the right to freedom of expression and communication in all media including, of course, electronic and digital  media.
(15.13) Madam Director-General, I welcome the projects in the Medium-Term Strategy and the Programme and Budget that  have been submitted to us. Spain is committed to the reform of the Organization and its determination to adapt its operations  to the current budget situation, making them more effective and efficient. Spain will continue to provide resolute support to  UNESCO and to champion the efforts that you, Madam Director-General, as head of the Organization, are making and plan to  make. Thank you.
16. The President:    Thank you Your Excellency. Our next speaker is His Excellency, Mr José Antonio Rodríguez, Minister of Culture  of the Dominican Republic.
(17.1) Mr Rodríguez (Dominican Republic) (translation from the Spanish):   Mr President of the General Conference, Your Excellency, Mr Hao Ping, Ms Irina Bokova, Director-General of  UNESCO, heads of delegations, ministers, delegates, distinguished ambassadors, ladies and gentlemen: allow me to  congratulate Mr Hao Ping on his election as President of this 37th session of the General Conference, and to extend our  warmest congratulations to Ms Irina Bokova on her nomination for re-election by the Executive Board as Director-General of  UNESCO. In that capacity, you are facing a challenge, a UNESCO with great budgetary restrictions in effect since the  previous General Conference, which instead of threatening the future of the Organization obliges us, its members, to  demonstrate our creative skills.
(17.2) Ms Bokova: in your first statement before the Conference, you asked yourself and you asked us a question: in what  kind of world do we wish to live? With all due respect, we should like to contribute our modest response. We would like to live  in an inclusive and participatory world. We must imagine the world as our great house, but not a house that is run by the most  powerful, because strength in a house lies more in the hands of the little people, in those elves who find the dirt and clean it up,  those elves who put the furniture where it is useful and doesn’t get in the way, those spirits who, without a voice backed by  economic power, are in charge of the management of the house.
(17.3) The world that we wish for is more like a chessboard where the spectators not only make the moves for the two  opponents but also, especially, for those opponents who make their moves by proxy by using others who, by coincidence,  occupy a marginal place on the board.
(17.4) We would like the world proclaimed by UNESCO, a world of agreements and, especially, of the results of those  agreements. We do not wish to belong to an institution where the same promises are made every two years; we want to  achieve results every two years. We want to ensure, as members of this Organization, that other friendly  nations can see  themselves reflected in the action of another country and can improve or alter that action, and can overcome the fear of being  mistaken or of making a mistake in the attempt.
(17.5) We would like a house filled with mirrors that would help us to discover our reflected virtues, but we must go beyond  reflections and act as mirrors. To that end, the President of the Dominican Republic, Danilo Medina, has placed on his list of  priorities, under the national development strategy, the education pact, with a view to building an inclusive, quality education  system. Within that framework, President Medina is fulfilling his commitment to allocate 4% of GDP to pre-university education.  The Government is also implementing the national literacy plan “Quisqueya Aprende Contigo”, which will teach more than
700,000 adults over the age of 15 to read and write within two years, with a view to eradicating illiteracy by 2015. In addition,  our country has six UNESCO chairs, which demonstrates our commitment to strengthening science and technology research  and innovation.  Mirror, rather than reflect.
(17.6) The Ministry of Culture of the Dominican Republic has implemented an action plan based on a democratic vision of  citizen participation in its work in which communities have a voice in the determination of cultural priorities. It has invited the  public to participate in the first call for projects, under which, at only one month before completion, approval has been granted  to approximately 100 proposals submitted by six of the ten geographical regions that will be consulted by December. The  Dominican Republic is currently prioritizing its public policies, with special emphasis on strengthening the links between  education and culture and between economics and culture, as important factors of development. Mirror, rather than reflect.
(17.7) The Dominican Republic, considering the programmes of the Social and Human Sciences Sector to be of great  significance, sponsored the UNESCO/Juan Bosch Prize for the Promotion of Social Science Research in Latin America and  the Caribbean which, to our great satisfaction, was awarded for the first time on 29 October in this very room. Mirror, rather  than reflect.
(17.8) Only a few days ago, 129 new members of the Teatro Orquestal Dominicano were put on the payroll of our institution.  Perhaps the number of new artists seems small but let us point out that these civil servants have what is inappropriately  labelled as “disabilities” and that today we are teaching that such disabilities are actually different kinds of abilities.
(17.9) Our country is aware that to become part of the great house known as the world, one must first put one’s own house  in order. This must be done without cracking the whip to suppress dialogue, and without the need to attack or violate those  who live in the world’s houses (countries), but instead by reaffirming respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms, the  equal dignity of different cultures, equal access to cultural expressions and openness to the cultures of the world. This country,  called the Republic, with an identity and culture called Dominican, seeks to be a mirror and not a reflection. We understand  that to deal with the world we call home, where we would like to live, we need the help of the organization that brings all our  houses (countries) together, the organization which welcomes us today and which we call UNESCO.
(17.10) The Government of the Dominican Republic has therefore decided to submit its candidacy for membership on the  Executive Board of UNESCO for the period 2013-2017, elections for which will be held during this 37th session of the General  Conference of UNESCO. The decision to become a candidate is in harmony with our commitment to UNESCO and our belief  in the importance of the key role that the Organization must continue to play within the United Nations system in the context of  the evolution of contemporary society, a role that is particularly important because if we wish to continue being mirrors, we  must reflect our experience and ensure that our house is really transformed into the world in which we would like to live. Thank  you.
18. The President:    Thank you Your Excellency. Our next speaker is Her Excellency, Ms Octavia Modert, Minister of Culture of  Luxembourg. Your Excellency, please.
19.1 Mme Modert (Luxembourg) :   Monsieur le Président de la Conférence générale, Madame la Présidente du Conseil exécutif, Madame la  Directrice générale, Excellences, Mesdames et Messieurs les délégués, dès le premier jour, la Conférence générale a  opéré un choix intelligent et judicieux. Mes plus sincères vœux de réussite vous accompagnent dans l’accomplissement  de votre mission.
19.2 Mesdames et Messieurs, l’UNESCO a connu des temps difficiles depuis que nous nous sommes rencontrés la  dernière fois dans cette enceinte. La cessation du versement de leur contribution par les Ètats-Unis et Israël a amputé  de près d’un quart le budget de l’Organisation : je voudrais lancer un appel au retour dans l’Organisation. Dans ces  conditions éprouvantes, la Directrice générale a assumé ses responsabilités en engageant un processus de réformes  pour rendre l’UNESCO plus efficace et plus opérationnelle. Réformes dont, sincèrement – ne nous voilons pas la face –,  l’Organisation avait de toute façon besoin. Et elle aura besoin d’autres réformes encore à l’avenir.
19.3 La crise financière a été vécue comme une occasion de restructurer l’Organisation. Il faudra que le processus  de réformes soit poursuivi et mené à son terme. Pour ce faire, la Directrice générale a le plein soutien du Luxembourg.  Le Conseil exécutif lui a déjà renouvelé sa confiance pour un nouveau mandat. Nous nous félicitons de cette décision,  que nous avons défendue aux côtés de nos partenaires du Bénélux, et nous espérons que la Conférence générale  approuvera ce choix mardi prochain.
19.4 Monsieur le Président, depuis sa création, l’éducation, la science et la culture sont au cœur des préoccupations  de l’UNESCO. La prise en compte, voire la prise en charge, des évolutions sociétales dans ces domaines représente un  défi constant, particulièrement en des temps où les frontières entre disciplines deviennent de plus en plus fluides, ce qui  ne rend pas forcément les choses plus aisées, mais je pense qu’il faut voir ces rapprochements également comme une  chance. La toute récente déclaration de Hangzhou sur la culture comme clé du développement durable me conforte  dans cette pensée, puisqu’elle appelle notamment à intégrer systématiquement la dimension culturelle dans les  définitions du développement durable et du bien-être ainsi que dans la conception, l’évaluation et l’application concrète  des politiques et programmes de développement.
19.5 Le Luxembourg soutient pleinement cette ambition. La culture et l’éducation sont un fondement de toute  démocratie. Il faut donc soutenir et renforcer ces domaines vitaux. J’aimerais donc insister ici sur un autre programme  UNESCO qui nous tient à cœur : le Réseau des écoles associées. Ce projet fête cette année son 60e anniversaire et il  est très précieux, car son but est de transmettre aux jeunes les valeurs de la tolérance, du respect des droits de l’homme  et de l’ouverture à d’autres manières de penser, de sentir et d’agir.
19.6 Je suis profondément convaincue que ce n’est qu’à travers la compréhension internationale, le respect de  l’altérité, l’intérêt pour la culture de l’autre et l’échange d’idées – domaines d’excellence de l’UNESCO – que l’humanité  arrivera à faire régner la tolérance, et donc la paix, là où, aujourd’hui, persistent fanatisme, misère et donc conflits. Il  convient de commencer à dispenser très tôt, dès le plus jeune âge, un tel enseignement. C’est la raison pour laquelle le  Luxembourg met tellement l’accent sur le Réseau du système des écoles associées. Le Luxembourg compte parmi les  pays où les écoles associées sont les plus nombreuses. Nous voudrions encourager l’UNESCO à étendre et à renforcer  ce Réseau.
19.7 Face aux problèmes d’infrastructure et de financement persistants, notamment dans les régions les plus  démunies du globe, je tiens à saluer également l’action menée par l’UNESCO dans le domaine de l’éducation par le  numérique, qu’il convient de renforcer dans les prochaines années pour suivre l’évolution technologique. En effet, le  numérique, formidable vecteur de communication et d’information, mais aussi d’échanges interculturels, est un allié  formidable dans la lutte contre l’ignorance et l’intolérance. À ce titre, il doit être pleinement exploité. Faut-il souligner que  l’Internet doit rester un espace ouvert à tous, où chacun puisse s’exprimer librement et sans entraves ? Y a-t-il lieu de  répéter que la censure et la subtilisation de données personnelles dans cet espace de liberté sont complètement  inacceptables ? Et c’est en ma qualité de Ministre de la culture et de Ministre de la justice que je le dis. La Directrice  générale a le plein soutien du Luxembourg, elle qui cherche à obtenir que le cyberespace demeure un espace de liberté  et de libre communication tout en assurant une protection contre la cybercriminalité – ce que l’UNESCO fait déjà, de  manière plus générale, lorsqu’elle plaide pour la liberté d’expression et, en particulier, pour la sécurité des journalistes,  un sujet malheureusement redevenu d’une dramatique actualité.
19.8 Monsieur le Président, dans le concert des nations et dans les enceintes internationales, la voix de l’UNESCO  est essentielle et indispensable. Sachez que vous pourrez toujours compter sur mon pays pour la faire entendre. Je vous  remercie de votre attention.   Mr Rodríguez (Dominican Republic) takes the Chair.
(20) The President (translation from the Spanish):   Now let us hear from Her Excellency Ms Claudia Schmied, Austrian Minister of Education, Arts and Culture.
21.1 Ms Schmied (Austria):   Thank you very much, Mr President, Madam Director-General, Excellencies, dear ministers, ladies and  gentlemen, first of all I would like to congratulate Mr Hao Ping, who I think has just left the room for a few minutes, on his  election as President of this session of the General Conference. I can assure you of Austria’s full cooperation in this  General Conference. Austria, ladies and gentlemen, also welcomes the Executive Board’s nomination of lrina Bokova to  head our Organization for another four years. Madam Director-General, we appreciate your work very much. Thank you  for your efforts and good luck in the new period.
21.2 Ladies and gentlemen, over the last six months UNESCO has been engaged in a really hard strategic process.  Austria endorses this reform process. Pragmatism and cooperation between Member States are important elements of  this approach. Pragmatism and cooperation will ensure a positive future for our Organization. UNESCO is strengthening  the global framework of society, of our societies, and therefore ladies and gentlemen, UNESCO has to do a lot of work.  UNESCO is doing invaluable work to advance freedom of the press and the protection of journalists, the understanding  of gender issues, equality, human rights and tolerance and cultural diversity.
21.3 Ladies and gentlemen, dear ministers, education for all is a right of everyone and not a privilege of a chosen few.  Education is the basis for the development of human society. We need to address poverty and disadvantage by investing  in education. Education is a precondition for all children to become global citizens and to enable them to lead a fulfilled  life. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, education and basic education in particular should be a top priority for UNESCO.  Lifelong learning, vocational training, and the promotion of high-quality education are key cornerstones and are important  and all these topics need unrestricted public support. We can shape our future in an international dialogue of learning  and teaching. Unfortunately, ladies and gentlemen, we will not reach one of UNESCO’s main targets for 2015, namely  primary school education for all. But, ladies and gentlemen, we need to stick to this goal. Educational policy is a major  policy area for all countries. Education requires our full attention.
21.4 UNESCO is the only specialized agency within the United Nations system which is entrusted with culture. lt is  this unique mandate which has led UNESCO to become a pioneer of cultural policy. The free flow of information and  access to communication and information have always been the most powerful motivating factors for our societies. The  digital age offers new and unprecedented opportunities for democracy and intercultural participation in our countries.  Ladies and gentlemen, we, the Member States, are committed to supporting UNESCO in this challenging situation. We  should set aside our individual interests for the sake of a re-orientation of UNESCO. UNESCO and this General  Conference will be successful if our work is guided by a spirit of dialogue and consensus for a free, global and human  society. Thank you very much.
22. The President:    Thank you Your Excellency. Now we are going to listen to Her Excellency, Ms Elizabeta Kanceska-Milevska,  Minister of Culture of the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia.
23.1 Ms Kanceska-Milevska (The former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia):   Distinguished President of the General Conference, distinguished Director-General, Chair of the Executive  Board, Heads of Delegations, please allow me at the outset to express my enormous pleasure at having the opportunity  to address this eminent forum, and once again emphasize the significance of UNESCO and the authority it possesses,  engaging the world’s intellectual, political elite, and media. I will point out with great pleasure that over the past years,  UNESCO has been recognized in our country, the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, as an organization which  justified its existence by focusing its policies and development goals towards our common interests. In that context, we  are proud of the contribution invested in the promotion and implementation of activities and initiatives of the Organization,  not only at national, but at regional and international levels. In this sense, I would like to express my belief that this 37th  session of the UNESCO General Conference will allow us to summarize the achieved results, but also set new goals that  will, in the spirit of UNESCO’s commitments, enhance our collaboration and employ it for the benefit of the citizens of our  countries.
23.2 Ladies and gentlemen, the Government of the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, as a UNESCO Member  State, pays great attention to its collaboration with the Organization and strives to establish active and constructive  collaboration with other UNESCO Member States. During the period between two UNESCO General Conferences, our  country completed numerous activities that enriched our experience in the fields of culture, education, information,  society, environment, and other areas. We also implemented many projects, thus making our contribution to resolving  the problems humanity is facing today.
23.3 Having in mind the universal values and principles comprising each religion, but also the fact that diversity of  cultures, religions, and civilizations represents a positive contribution and great potential, our country, with the support of  UNESCO, in May this year successfully organized for the third time the World Conference on Dialogue among Religions  and Civilizations. The Third World Conference entitled “Freedom and dignity – Fundamental Values in Inter-Human,  Inter-Religious and Inter-Cultural Relations”, as well as the previous conferences, were part of the global agenda of the  United Nations and UNESCO’s dialogue among civilizations and marked three important anniversaries: 1,700 years from  the establishment of tolerance for Christianity; 70 years from the Holocaust, and 10 years from the Summit of Heads of  State of South-East Europe, “Dialogue among Civilizations”, and the Ohrid message for peace.
23.4 Ladies and gentlemen, the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia fully supports the commitments of UNESCO  for improving regional cooperation. The protection and promotion of tangible and intangible cultural heritage, the respect  of diverse artistic expressions, and intercultural dialogue are priorities of our action at the national and international levels.  In line with this, the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia has submitted three applications for inscription on the  UNESCO Representative List of the Intangible Cultural Heritage of Humanity and is an active participant in three  international applications. In the spirit of the 10th anniversary of the adoption of one of the most important conventions of  UNESCO on the preservation of intangible cultural heritage, we completed another significant activity this year. On
25 October 2013 the Macedonian National Committee on Traditional Music, supported by the Ministry of Culture and the  UNESCO National Commission, held a concert where it presented the authentic national folk, musical and dance values  of the intangible cultural heritage of countries in south-east Europe, including Bulgaria, Albania, Romania, Croatia and  Turkey, which have all inscribed their intangible cultural heritage on the UNESCO list. This event has undoubtedly  conveyed the universal message for the promotion of unity, a world without borders, and respect for the diversity of each  country in the large European family.
23.5 Ladies and gentlemen, starting from our firm commitment to a contemporary approach in the protection and  improvement of cultural expressions, as instruments for dialogue and mutual understanding, the Ministry of Culture of the  former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia has ensured continuous support for the projects promoting and affirming the  diversity of cultural expression. With great interest, we took part in UNESCO’s programmes and initiatives which focused  on improving the quality of education, as well as the formulation of strategies and programmes within UNESCO’s long- term programmes such as education for all and lifelong learning. We used the experience of UNESCO to implement  information and communication technologies, and improve protection of the environment. In 2013, we established a  national committee for the MAB (Man and Biosphere) programme and together with the Government of Albania  submitted an application for proclamation of the transboundary biosphere reserve Ohrid-Prespa. One of the more  relevant activities which we expect to be positively affirmed during this General Conference is our application for the  establishment of an institute of earthquake engineering and engineering seismology (IZIIS) in Skopje, as a category 2  institute under the auspices of UNESCO. By the establishment of this institute, our country will contribute to the  prevention and mitigation of earthquake-related risks.
23.6 Finally, ladies and gentlemen, on this occasion, I would like to assure you that the former Yugoslav Republic of  Macedonia, as a Member of the UNESCO Executive Board, will consistently strive to develop UNESCO, to strengthen its  international role, and enhance the traditional cooperation with other Member States. The former Yugoslav Republic of  Macedonia is ready to continue its constructive contribution in the future and will continue to stand for the preservation of  peace and development of democratic processes in all domains of social life, the protection and advancement of human  rights and freedom, improved living standards, and collaboration with its neighbours, Europe and the other countries in  the world. Thank you.
24. The President:    Thank you Your Excellency. Now we are going to hear from Her Excellency, Ms Jet Bussemaker, Minister of  Education, Culture and Science of the Netherlands.
25.1 Ms Bussemaker (Netherlands):   Mr President of the General Conference, Madam Chair of the Executive Board, Madam Director-General, Your  Excellencies, ladies and gentlemen, as the Dutch Minister of Education, Culture and Science, I am speaking to you today  on behalf of the Kingdom of the Netherlands. At first I would like to thank the Director-General, Ms Irina Bokova, for the  way she has guided the Organization through a difficult period these past four years. She deserves our support. We in  the Netherlands fervently hope that the trend of reforms will continue over the next four years, because UNESCO’s task  for the coming years, as far as we are concerned, is to protect what is vulnerable.
25.2. Today I would like to name three subjects which we in the Netherlands feel are particularly in need of protection  and which are crucial cornerstones of a democratic society. These are culture, freedom of speech and respect for  diversity. First of all culture, and in particular heritage. Heritage is precious, vulnerable and it determines our identity, and  it is precisely for these reasons that heritage is not always spared during armed conflicts. Consider the situation in Iraq,  Libya and the Syrian Arab Republic, and now also in Mali. This is why the Netherlands attaches great importance to  UNESCO’s ability to protect cultural property against such activities as illegal trade. The Hague Convention of 1954 is  still a powerful tool in this regard. This is proven by the fact that the Netherlands was recently able to return four icons to  Cyprus, nearly 40 years after they had been looted from island monasteries, and by the fact that the Netherlands helped  protect ancient manuscripts in Mali by taking them to safety in the utmost secrecy.
25.3 Then, my second point, freedom of speech and expression, also mentioned by Sweden, Norway, Finland and  Denmark. Freedom of speech and expression, and in particular, the safety of journalists. An independent media is  essential for a properly functioning democracy. However, 2012 saw more journalists murdered than ever before. Last  week the French journalists Ghislaine Dupont and Claude Verlon were killed while at work in Mali. Others face  imprisonment, blackmail, or abuse. For the Netherlands, therefore, the implementation of the United Nations Plan of  Action on the Safety of Journalists and the Issue of Impunity is of great weight. We ask for an active commitment from  Member States to ensure the safety and independence of journalists and to stand up to those who prevent it.
25.4 My third point on vulnerability is that we in the Netherlands feel that we have to protect the rights of lesbians,  gays, bisexuals and transgender persons, or, as we say, the LGBT community. On International Day against  Homophobia and Transphobia last May I made agreements with 12 European ministers on this topic during a conference  in The Hague. We are concerned about bullying in schools and the relatively high suicide rate among LGBT students.  This is why the Netherlands held a side event here today to raise awareness of this issue. We will also provide financial  support to UNESCO’s initiative to address homophobic bullying, because LGBT rights are universal human rights. Also,  violence against women is one of the most revolting violations of human rights. We in the Netherlands declare ourselves  openly against all forms of violence and we aim to ensure that the United Nations pays extra attention to vulnerable  groups such as girls, poor women, immigrant women and LBT women.
25.5 I would like to mention apart from these three issues, another issue that affects the quality of life of people  throughout the world, and that is effective water management. It is essential for the safety of people and the possibility of  survival. Through the centuries we have experienced this personally in the Netherlands. I would like to encourage  UNESCO to strengthen its leading role in this area. The Netherlands will gladly contribute to these efforts, through the  UNESCO-IHE Institute for Water Education and other channels.
25.6 Finally, we will of course continue our work on education, not only the issue of access to education but also the  quality of education, the ongoing professionalization of teachers and the connections between education and the labour  market. Mr President, in the interest of peace and freedom all over the world, UNESCO must be enabled to operate  effectively and decisively on all these themes, so that we can transform vulnerability into strength. And to do so, reforms  and active contributions from all Member States will remain indispensable. Thank you for your attention.
26. The President:    Thank you, Your Excellency. Now we welcome His Excellency, Mr Serigne Mbaye Thiam, Minister of Education  of Senegal.
27.1 M. Thiam (Sénégal) :   Monsieur le Président de la Conférence générale, Madame la Présidente du Conseil exécutif, Madame la  Directrice générale, Mesdames et Messieurs les ministres et chefs de délégation, Excellences, Mesdames, Messieurs, la  délégation du Sénégal se félicite de la qualité des documents 37 C/4 et 37 C/5, qui accordent une importance  particulière à l’Afrique et à l’egalité des genres. Le soutien à ces priorités est nécessaire et les efforts doivent être  poursuivis, malgré les contraintes budgétaires, pour que leur mise en œuvre soit effective.
27.2 Mesdames, Messieurs, je suis heureux de constater que plusieurs des axes d’action proposés recoupent les  priorités actuelles de la politique de développement du Gouvernement du Sénégal, définie par Son Excellence  Monsieur Macky Sall, Président de la République. Ainsi, dans le domaine de l’éducation, la délégation du Sénégal se  félicite des orientations du grand programme I et approuve ses objectifs stratégiques, qui concourent à la paix et au  développement durable. Dans ce sens, le Sénégal a adopté un nouveau programme sectoriel d’éducation et de  formation pour la période 2013-2025 ; ce nouveau programme intitulé PAQUET (Programme d’Amélioration de la Qualité,  de l’Équité et de la Transparence) met l’accent sur des objectifs qui correspondent aux orientations et recommandations  de l’UNESCO.
27.3. Monsieur le Président, il est vrai qu’une éducation inclusive de qualité ne saurait être possible sans une prise en  compte du secteur non formel. Dans cette optique, le Gouvernement du Sénégal a engagé un ambitieux projet de  modernisation des écoles traditionnelles d’apprentissage du Coran.
27.4 Dans le domaine de l’enseignement supérieur, l’ambition politique du Gouvernement du Sénégal est de faire de  ce secteur et de la recherche des piliers du développement économique et social, l’accent étant mis sur les sciences, les  technologies, l’ingénierie et les mathématiques. C’est dans ce cadre que l’Université virtuelle sénégalaise (UVS) vient  d’être créée, qui exploite les technologies de l’information et des communications.
27.5 Par ailleurs, vous n’ignorez pas que le Sénégal abrite le siège de la Conférence des ministres de l'éducation des  pays ayant le français en partage (CONFEMEN), depuis sa création en 1960. À ce titre, le Sénégal souhaite, depuis  cette tribune, inviter les membres de la Conférence générale à prendre connaissance du message adressé par les  ministres de la CONFEMEN à la communauté internationale, dans leur Déclaration sur les priorités de l’éducation pour  l’agenda de l’après-2015.
27.6 Mon pays encourage aussi l’UNESCO à poursuivre ses activités dans les domaines de l’eau, de la biodiversité  et de la prévention des risques et des catastrophes, et souhaite que les moyens alloués aux programmes y afférents  soient renforcés.
27.7 Mesdames, Messieurs, au Sénégal, l’émergence ne saurait aller sans une politique sociale inclusive, attentive à  la réduction des inégalités. Aussi, dans le domaine des sciences sociales et humaines, la délégation du Sénégal appelle- t-elle à poursuivre la réflexion sur les transformations sociales et le dialogue interculturel. Le devoir de mémoire, qui est  aussi un droit, nous commande de faire converger nos efforts au service d’une utilisation à des fins pédagogiques de  l’histoire de l’Afrique.
27.8 S’agissant du grand programme portant sur la culture, les priorités qui y sont définies correspondent aux  orientations de notre politique culturelle nationale, qui encourage à la fois la sauvegarde de la pluralité des expressions  culturelles et la valorisation économique du patrimoine culturel.
27.9 En outre, le Sénégal, qui fait de la liberté d’expression une liberté constitutionnelle fondamentale, souhaite que  des moyens plus importants soient alloués aux programmes de formation et de renforcement des capacités des  journalistes en Afrique, ainsi qu’à l’appui aux établissements de formation.
27.10 Je voudrais terminer mon propos en exprimant l’intérêt, les encouragements et la gratitude de mon pays à  l’endroit des femmes et des hommes de l’UNESCO, ces ressources humaines de qualité qui s’investissent chaque jour,  dans un contexte pas toujours favorable, pour mettre en œuvre efficacement projets et programmes. Je vous remercie  de votre attention.
(29.1) Mr Thneibat (Jordan) (translation from the Arabic):   Mr President of the General Conference, Madam Chair of the Executive Board, Madam Director-General of  UNESCO, Irina Bokova, Excellencies, heads and members of delegations, ladies and gentlemen, as-salāmu ‘alaikum wa- raḥmatu llāhi wa-barakātuh (peace and the mercy and blessings of God be upon you). I am pleased to offer warm  congratulations and best wishes to His Excellency Mr Hao Ping on his election as President of the General Conference at its
37th session, and to wish him success in discharging the tasks entrusted to him. I also convey thanks to Ms Katalin Bogyay,  President of the General Conference at its 36th session for the efforts she exerted during her term of office. Thanks also go to  Ms Alissandra Cummins, Chair of the Executive Board, and to the Members of the Executive Board for their efforts during the  sessions of the Board over the past biennium. We also give thanks to Ms Irina Bokova for leading the Organization over the  past four years. We have all noted the results of her constant work, which we appreciate highly. We congratulate her on her  nomination for re-election.
(29.2) Ladies and gentlemen, building the defences of peace and establishing an international community which is free  from violence and in which all people live in dignity and strive to achieve the common good for the human race requires of us  all the building of a global partnership based on dialogue and mutual understanding, the strengthening of justice and equality  in our societies, laying the foundations of sustainable development on the basis of globally acceptable values and ethical  principles, as stated in the United Nations Millennium Declaration, which was adopted by the United Nations General  Assembly. Similarly, preservation of the world heritage is a duty which the States of the world strive to achieve, given that it is  one of the true sources of mutual understanding and the dialogue among civilizations. On this basis, Jordan calls upon the  international community and UNESCO to exert pressure on the Israeli authorities to abide by United Nations and UNESCO  resolutions and decisions concerning Jerusalem, and to refrain from activity or project designed to change the characteristics  of the Old City of Jerusalem and the Mughrabi Ascent contrary to international law. The continued Israeli excavations within  the city and around it are none other than part of plans to modify the status quo, since Jerusalem is an occupied city according  to international law; it has been inscribed on the World Heritage List since 1981 at the request of Jordan, and on the List of  World Heritage in Danger since 1982.
(29.3) Ladies and gentlemen, education, in many parts of the world, is facing problems and obstacles which have led to a  considerable proportion of the world’s children being deprived of access to education or of acquiring the basic skills necessary  for reading and writing. In addition, millions of young people and adults are deprived of opportunities for the education and  training they need to enter the job market. Possibly the insufficiency of financial and human resources in addition to natural  disasters in countries, and the migration of people from their own countries to neighbouring countries as a result of wars and  internal conflicts have contributed to a very large extent to those outcomes. Both the migrant categories and the citizens of the  host countries have been affected by that. In this connection, Jordan has shouldered a great burden by receiving individuals  from neighbouring countries over the past years ‒ our Palestinian and Iraqi brethren, and by accepting migrants from the  fraternal Syrian Arab Republic. This is why we ask your esteemed conference to urge the Member States to offer support and  assistance to Jordan to help it to undertake this humanitarian mission and to endeavour to provide for the educational needs of  more than 84,000 Syrian students in Jordanian schools and refugee camps.
(29.4) Ladies and gentlemen, we all meet together once every two years to reaffirm our responsibility to work diligently to  strengthen the culture of peace and tolerance in a climate of freedom and openness in order to build a humane society based  on dialogue and respect for the Other. This is a responsibility which my country Jordan accepts in all earnestness thanks to  the wise vision of His Royal Hashemite Highness King Abdullah ibn al-Hussein, may God preserve and protect him. Our pride  in the Arab Islamic heritage, which is based on faith in God and tolerance, prompted us to promulgate the Amman Message,  which explains to the world Islam’s magnanimous message of tolerance and its call for well-directed, constructive dialogue as  a model for the dialogue among civilizations and the building of mutual understanding among human beings and their fellow  human beings in order to strive for internal reform and sustainable development. Jordan has exerted great efforts to build a  modern civil society in which human rights are respected and human dignity and freedom of expression are upheld. Suffice it  to say that over the past two years, more than 8,000 opposition marches have been held in Jordan, in which no one has been  hurt and no one has been prevented from expressing their opinion.
(29.5) Ladies and gentlemen, the peaceful, integrated global community we all look forward to is in need of the concerted  efforts of all Member States in order to move to a culture of tolerance and respect, and genuine appreciation for the beliefs and  concerns of the Other, and to endeavour to strengthen joint values and lay the foundations of societies of competence,  innovation and fostering of the capacities of young people, creation of an appropriate climate for the rising generations so that  they may enjoy a future of peace, security and tranquillity. Let us all work together to harness the noble values of UNESCO in
135  meeting the challenges facing humankind, striving to achieve security and peace within a framework of tolerance, consultation,  dialogue, and observance of the constructive, noble ethical values and ideals that we are all striving to attain and implement.  Thank you for your attention.
(31.1) Ms Cherif Hachem (Mauritania) (translation from the Arabic):    Mr President, Madam Director-General, Excellencies, ministers and heads of delegation, ambassadors of Member  States, distinguished experts, ladies and gentlemen, allow me, Mr President, to convey to you warm congratulations on your  election as President of the General Conference. May I, to begin with, express my pleasure at finding myself today beneath  the dome of the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization, a symbol of the unity of the human intellect.  Indeed, it embodies humankind’s expression of its own presence on Earth. UNESCO has a noble and eternal global message.  I also congratulate the Organization and its Director-General and staff on their sterling performance in disseminating the  message of peace and fraternity all over the world, from all angles, such that our Organization has been the chief upholder of  values which bring people together and restore confidence and pride in shaken souls, and hope in individuals whose cultural  identity is at risk, and preserves supreme diversity in the ways of life of peoples. This is a message which is well deserving of  the care you have taken with it, especially at the present time, when numerous cultures and peoples are suffering from the  afflictions of war and conflict, oppression, and failure to accept the Other.
(31.2) Ladies and gentlemen, my country pursues an overall policy aimed at enhancing the status of human beings by  means of integrated programmes which ensure the enjoyment of individual and collective public freedoms, and which  endeavour to encourage growth, the fight against poverty, the expansion of the national productive base, and the  strengthening of the country’s infrastructure, especially in the field of culture and youth. This promotes stability in my country,  and helps it to secure political achievements, and to implement ambitious youth programmes. The holding of our General  Conference coincides with the holding of municipal and legislative elections following an extensive national dialogue in which  the vital forces of the country participated, individuals of all political stripes and civilian backgrounds. Women had a special
136  presence in these encounters, which ensured that they had an appreciable rate of participation in this exercise in social  construction and development.
(31.3) Ladies and gentlemen, many epithets have been applied to my country, including that of “the country of a million  poets”. Poetry is the flower of winged culture, and it plays a fundamental role in refining emotions and propagating the values  of beauty, and pointing to the symbolic forces which inspire human beings with all possible good and serenity. Mauritania is  today, as it has been in the past, a bridge traversed by human civilizations in West Africa between two different worlds.  Mauritania’s people have thereby spread the culture of peace and tolerance among the people of the region. In this connection,  my country has endeavoured to enhance its role with respect to its Arab, African, Islamic and international identities, on the  basis of its duty to uphold just causes as an optimum means of resolving conflicts, dealing with crises, and encouraging the  middle ground in sensitive human conditions.
(31.4) With a view to encouraging the dissemination of science, Mauritania has this year established a new university for  the exact sciences. It has focused on the development of university, secondary and primary educational institutions, and has  spent the bulk of its resources on the education and training sector, and on adult literacy among vulnerable segments of  society. In the cultural field, my country has endeavoured to develop a balanced policy which ensures the maintenance,  enhancement and dissemination of various tangible and intangible expressions of our cultural heritage after adopting cultural  diplomacy as a strategic option. Similarly, the Festival of the Ancient Towns of Mauritania inscribed on the World Heritage List  of our esteemed Organization will be held at its usual time in early 2014 in the historic city of Oualata. This festival is aimed at  ensuring the spiritual, cultural and scientific radiance disseminated by these cities over a number of centuries, and at involving  local inhabitants of these cities by establishing small income-generating projects for the cities. I would be very pleased if you  would visit us during the forthcoming fourth edition of the festival, which will be presided over by the President of the Republic  in person.
(31.5) Ladies and gentlemen, my country has taken considerable practical steps in the field of information, consisting in the  opening up of the audiovisual space and the framing of laws for the protection of journalists. We have also adopted an  integrated strategy to preserve the environment and the natural heritage, and we are endeavouring to implement a special  programme to combat desertification. Ladies and gentlemen, my country renews its support for the efforts being exerted by  UNESCO to develop human societies by developing education, culture and science, and relies on cooperation with UNESCO  in order to achieve shared humanitarian values which are of benefit to all humankind on the basis of justice, peace and  constructive dialogue. Thank you. As-salāmu ‘alaikum (Peace be upon you).
32. The President:    Thanks to you, Your Excellency. Now we welcome His Excellency, Mr Yves Rossier, Secretary of State of the  Federal Foreign Affairs Department of Switzerland.
33.1 M. Rossier (Suisse) :   Monsieur le Vice-Président de la Conférence générale, Madame la Directrice générale de l’UNESCO,  Excellences, Mesdames, Messieurs, voilà deux ans, nous exprimions ici même notre soutien à une UNESCO inspiratrice  d’un « nouvel humanisme » au service de la paix et d’un développement durable mondial. La Suisse souhaite  aujourd’hui réitérer cet appui. Elle se rallie aux propositions de stratégie et de programme et budget de l’Organisation qui  nous sont présentées.
33.2 Nous saluons notamment l’introduction du nouveau cycle quadriennal. Ce changement significatif positionnera  l’Organisation plus clairement au sein du système des Nations Unies. La préparation du programme de développement  pour l’après-2015, les ressources financières limitées et le durcissement des tensions géopolitiques et identitaires sont  des éléments qui appellent à une meilleure synergie d’action avec la communauté internationale. À cet égard, la Suisse  regrette vivement la situation financière dans laquelle se trouve l’UNESCO. Toutefois – à quelque chose malheur est bon  – cette situation permet une accélération des réformes et la définition de priorités claires afin d’améliorer l’efficacité et  l’impact de l’action de notre Organisation. Il nous faut aussi consacrer des ressources aux activités susceptibles  d’accroître la pertinence de l’utilisation des moyens d’autres acteurs. Le plan de dépenses élaboré mérite d’être examiné  sous cet angle par la Conférence générale au cours des semaines à venir. Pour la Suisse, les activités globales sont à  privilégier, comme le travail normatif – y compris les conseils politiques aux États membres – ou le travail d’évaluation  des tendances mondiales dans les domaines de compétence de l’Organisation. En revanche, il convient de renoncer aux  petites actions de terrain dispersées et, partant, moins efficaces. La Suisse est aussi d’avis que l’éducation doit faire  partie de ce programme. Nous plaidons pour la définition d’un objectif qui ne se réduise pas à la mesure des seules  compétences en lecture et en calcul. L’éducation est un droit dont les enjeux sociaux et humains sont infiniment plus  vastes.
33.3 Sur la base de l’expérience suisse, je prendrai pour exemple la lutte contre le chômage des jeunes. Le  développement de modèles de formation professionnelle est indispensable au progrès économique positif et à la stabilité  sociale. L’UNESCO doit jouer son rôle en promouvant un continuum éducatif qui ne valorise pas uniquement la filière  universitaire. Plus largement, notre Organisation apparaît comme l’instance légitime pour élaborer un objectif d’éducation  universelle, avec l’appui de ses instituts spécialisés. Chef de file de l’« Éducation pour tous», Secrétaire exécutif de  l’Initiative mondiale pour l’éducation avant tout, lancée par le  Secrétaire général de l’ONU, l’UNESCO peut être le point  de ralliement des États membres et de l’ensemble du système onusien pour une mise en œuvre optimale de l’Agenda  international en matière d’’éducation.
33.4 Autre illustration de l’ambition qui est la nôtre de voir l’UNESCO mieux alignée sur le système onusien, je  mentionnerai la récente création, par M. Ban Ki-moon, avec l’appui de la Directrice générale, du Conseil consultatif  scientifique chargé de renforcer les liens entre les sciences et la politique. La création de ce Conseil procède des travaux  du Groupe de haut niveau sur la viabilité mondiale, constitué par le Secrétaire général, et auquel la Suisse a pris une  part active. Pour que l’action de ce Conseil soit pertinente, il importe que des interconnexions avec les processus  politiques soient bien établies. Nous attendons que l’UNESCO, en sa qualité de Secrétaire de cet organe consultatif, y  contribue activement. Notre Organisation dispose en outre d’un important réservoir multisectoriel de partenaires
137  producteurs de savoir et d’institutions de recherche. Je citerai, comme institution d’exception, le CERN, navire amiral de  la recherche fondamentale, si cruciale pour l’avenir. J’évoquerai aussi le réseau des Chaires UNESCO. Cette somme  d’expertise et de connaissances doit être valorisée et les commissions nationales, relais d’interaction privilégiés avec la  société civile, peuvent nous y aider.
33.5 Excellences, Mesdames, Messieurs, l’UNESCO a pour tâche de piloter nombre d’instruments normatifs et de  programmes intergouvernementaux, notamment dans les domaines de la culture et de la communication. La Suisse est  attachée à une bonne gouvernance de ces activités, « les plus multilatérales » de l’Organisation. Alors que l’actualité  témoigne du caractère très sensible de la circulation et de la collecte de l’information, ainsi que du caractère fragile des  expressions culturelles, la Suisse s’inquiète toutefois d’une politisation croissante dans la prise de décisions et le  développement d’activités. Je pense ici à la préservation du patrimoine et à la liberté d’expression.
33.6 Nous devons mieux utiliser l’UNESCO pour contribuer positivement et concrètement à la promotion du dialogue.  Un dialogue axé sur une meilleure application du droit international humanitaire, sur la lutte contre l’impunité et sur le  respect des droits de l’homme. La Suisse fait confiance au courage et à la détermination de la Directrice générale pour  garder le cap, celui de la défense des valeurs de notre Organisation. Qu’elle soit assurée de notre soutien sans faille. Je  vous remercie de votre attention.
34. The President:   Thank you, Your Excellency. Our next speaker is His Excellency, Mr Ciarán Cannon, Minister for Training and  Skills of Ireland.
35.1 Mr Cannon (Ireland):   Mr President of the General Conference, Excellencies, ladies and gentlemen, let me begin firstly by  congratulating the President on his election. My delegation looks forward to working constructively with him in the coming  two years. I also wish to align my comments today with the statement of the European Union, which will be made later in  the debate.
35.2 In view of the great challenges that face humankind, UNESCO’s five pillars of action – on education, social and  human science, natural science, culture, and freedom of expression – are more vital than ever as we chart a sustainable  way forward for humanity. To quote Ireland’s President, Michael D. Higgins, who made the first ever address by a  President of Ireland to UNESCO in February of this year, “UNESCO matters if we are to construct a world that will not  only deliver peace, but the fruits of peace in our present and all of the products of the imagination in our shared future”.  Ireland applauds the leadership shown by UNESCO and, in particular, the work of Director-General Bokova in relation to  freedom of speech and the protection of cultures under threat. The high profile of the Director-General on Mali gives  witness that an attack on the culture of one of our member countries is an attack on the culture of all humanity.  Furthermore, the Director-General’s initiative in highlighting the need to combat impunity in crimes against journalists,  and UNESCO’s participation in the United Nations Plan of Action on the Safety of Journalists and the Issue of Impunity,  are a signal to all that the freedom of the media and freedom of speech matter and will continue to be championed by  this Organization as one of its core values. The tragic events of the past week underline the importance of this. Ireland  looks forward to Ms Bokova building on her work during a second term in office following the elections next week.
35.3 As a minister for education, I closely associate with UNESCO’s work on this issue. By 2050, half the population  of the 11 poorest countries in the world will be aged 23 years or younger, and so the need for stronger education  systems is urgent, if inequality, hunger and unemployment are to be seriously tackled. Education has always been, and  continues to be, a central focus of lreland’s development assistance programme. We look forward to continuing this  focus in the context of the post-2015 development agenda. Adult education is one of my own particular areas of  responsibility and I would like to draw the Conference’s attention to some particular developments in this sector. The Irish  Government has supported our National Adult Literacy Agency in developing distance learning initiatives through  television, radio, and online learning. This includes a very successful prime-time television series with average viewing  numbers of about 150,000 annually. Ranked highly in a European Commission analysis of strategies for improving adult  participation, it is proving to be of interest to a number of countries around the world in developing their own adult literacy  policies. We will be glad to provide further information to any delegations interested in this work.
35.4 Turning to the issue of the financial challenges facing UNESCO, it is of course important that the Organization  prioritizes key activities and concentrates on its main areas of responsibility. However, while prioritizing is necessary, we  should not neglect small programmes which cost very little but where UNESCO approval is of enormous help to  communities. Geoparks and the Creative Cities Network come to mind in this regard and I will now make some remarks  on these two excellent initiatives. As Dublin is a designated UNESCO City of Literature and a member of the UNESCO  Creative Cities Network, Ireland looks forward to being part of an expanding worldwide network of creative cities which  work together to share knowledge and expertise. I am pleased to inform the Conference of the major regeneration  project planned for Dublin which will be anchored by a new city library. The UNESCO designation was the catalyst which  enabled funding opportunities to be accessed for this expansion of the city’s cultural infrastructure. Imaginative local,  national and international literary programmes are a feature of Dublin’s usage of the UNESCO designation, including the  “One City, One Book” initiative which encourages people to read a particular book connected with Dublin each April and  we look forward to UNESCO’s continued support for that network.
35.5 We also wish to express our strong support for the Global Geoparks Network. Ireland congratulates UNESCO  on its involvement in earth science. UNESCO is the only international organization to have a dedicated section focusing  on this very important subject. Earth sciences lie at the heart of solving the great societal issues of today, including  climate change, population growth and the associated rise in demand for natural resources. There is also the allied  challenge of encouraging more sustainable use of resources and improved environmental best practice for their
138  exploitation. Through the International Geoscience Programme, UNESCO has for over 40 years brought global research  teams to work at the frontiers of geoscience research on these critical issues and Ireland supports the continuation and  strengthening of this work. We are very glad to be supporting the three Irish global geoparks which, with support from  UNESCO, have continued to benefit local communities through sustainable tourism and environmental education. We  are committed to continuing to contribute to the development of this excellent initiative.
35.6 Ireland also remains committed to UNESCO’s other areas of work and I will now go on to speak on some of  these. Since the last General Conference, the Tralee Institute of Technology in Ireland has become the first institution  worldwide to have been awarded a UNESCO Chair in the field of inclusive physical education, sport, recreation and  fitness. Together with their international partners, the Tralee Institute will now work towards transforming the lives of  people with disabilities, irrespective of age, through participation in sport and physical exercise. Access to this activity is  a basic human right and a pillar of social justice. Gender support and protection of minority groups are an essential part  of UNESCO’s role, be it in working to enhance protection from bullying in schools or protecting minority cultural  expression. An Irish youth group called “BeLonG To” made a strong contribution to the development of the first United  Nations toolkit providing guidelines on preventing and addressing homophobic bullying in educational institutions. I am  very glad to note the participation by BeLonG To in the launch of these valuable guidelines which took place here at  UNESCO in May of last year. Ireland commends UNESCO for its work and looks forward to future cooperation on these  and other areas of importance. Thank you.
36. The President:   Thanks to you, Your Excellency. And we welcome His Excellency, Mr Kyriakos Kenevezos, Minister of  Education and Culture of Cyprus.
37.1 Mr Kenevezos (Cyprus):   Mr President of the General Conference, Madam Chair of the Executive Board, Madam Director-General,  distinguished delegates, allow me to begin my address by congratulating the new President of the General Conference,  Mr Hao Ping, and also by praising the outgoing President, Ambassador Bogyay for her successful mandate.
37.2 Mr President, in today’s rapidly changing world, considering the financial restrictions and contemporary  challenges, UNESCO’s vision to create a sustainable, equitable future and the need for international cooperation are  more pertinent than ever. Cyprus has been a deeply committed Member State of the Organization since 1961 and has  worked hard to promote the Organization’s scope and strategy throughout the years. The overarching objectives of  equality, sustainable development and elimination of all forms of discrimination are taken into consideration in public  policymaking and governance. Our dedication to UNESCO’s mission is expressed in other governing bodies as well, in  which Cyprus is also an active member. The implementation of the “Europe 2020” strategy is an example of cooperation  for the promotion of common goals such as employment, innovation, education, social inclusion and climate/energy  management.
37.3 The Cyprus presidency of the Council of the European Union, during the second semester of 2012, has been an  opportunity to further promote, inter alia, sustainability, intercultural dialogue, social cohesion and solidarity, which are  key elements in “building peace in the minds of men and women”. ln the field of education, Cyprus shares the vision for  education in the post-2015 development agenda, summarized in the concise goal “equitable quality lifelong learning for  all”. According to UNESCO’s Education for All Global Monitoring Reports, Cyprus figures among the countries which  have achieved at a high level the education for all goals. There is an ongoing effort for a comprehensive introduction of  change and innovation at all levels and all aspects of the educational system, providing quality and relevant education in  a lifelong learning perspective, from early childhood development to higher education, including technical and vocational  education and training and skills development. The main objective of this effort is to create a democratic and student- focused education system, and assist students to maximize their potential and acquire skills and knowledge which will  enable them to become active and democratic citizens. Cyprus has also made important steps in higher education, as it  currently supports three State and five private universities, thus increasing the opportunities for studies in the country and  further development of research and innovation. A UNESCO Chair on Gender Equality and Women’s Empowerment was  also established at the University of Cyprus in 2010, which contributes to the implementation of UNESCO’s overarching  objective for gender equality.
37.4 All UNESCO conventions relating to the protection of cultural expressions, cultural property and trafficking are of  paramount importance to our country. The Government of Cyprus is committed to the preservation and protection of  archaeological sites and monuments on an island-wide basis. However, the implementation of this commitment is  challenged for those sites and monuments that are located in the occupied area, many of which are in dire need of  conservation. Currently, Cyprus is a member of the lntergovernmental Committee for Promoting the Return of Cultural  Property to its Countries of Origin or its Restitution in Case of lllicit Appropriation (ICPRCP) and contributes actively to  the implementation of the Convention on the Means of Prohibiting and Preventing the Illicit lmport, Export and Transfer of  Ownership of Cultural Property, in collaboration with other Member States. Recently, Cyprus managed to repatriate  cultural property which was illegally stolen from churches in the northern occupied part of the island. ln July 2013,  Germany returned some 170 frescoes, mosaics and icons to Cyprus, which had been removed from churches in the  occupied area and seized by German authorities. As my distinguished colleague from the Netherlands stated,  furthermore some other icons were repatriated following a request submitted by the authorities of Cyprus to the  Netherlands, and I would like to thank her for that reference.
37.5 ln the field of safeguarding the tangible and intangible heritage of Cyprus, our efforts are currently concentrated  on the implementation of management plans with the involvement of local communities. Cyprus has so far inscribed two  elements on the Representative List of the Intangible Cultural Heritage of Humanity, the “Lefkara laces” and the oral
139  “poetic duelling” and has also submitted a multinational nomination file, the “Mediterranean Diet”. A first version of the  national inventory of elements of the intangible cultural heritage of Cyprus has been published, which we consider to be  an invaluable tool for the preservation of our cultural identity. For the effective protection and promotion of heritage and  contemporary creativity, we participate in regional networks and relevant activities, especially those initiated by the  UNESCO Venice Office and the Regional Centre for the Safeguarding of Intangible Cultural Heritage in South-Eastern  Europe, based in Bulgaria.
37.6 Please allow me to conclude by reaffirming my country’s profound commitment to UNESCO’s mission of peace- building through education, culture and science. The Government of Cyprus is willing to contribute to conflict resolution  and peace-building by all possible means, both within the country as well as in the broader Mediterranean and worldwide.  The International Decade for the Rapprochement of Cultures (2013-2022), which has recently been launched, is an  excellent opportunity to enhance cooperation and promote diversity and pluralism in all UNESCO’s fields of action.  Thank you very much.
38.1 The President:   We thank His Excellency Mr Kyriakos Kenevezos, Minister of Education and Culture of Cyprus.  (The President continues in Spanish)
(38.2) The President (translation from the Spanish):   We welcome His Excellency Mr Alberto Sileoni, Minister of Education of Argentina.
(39.1) Mr Sileoni (Argentina) (translation from the Spanish):   Mr President, Madam Chair, Madam Director-General, delegates: we extend our greetings to the General  Conference and reaffirm our support for UNESCO’s mission to build a consciousness based on the principles of equality,  peace, solidarity, respect for diversity and cooperation between peoples.
(39.2) I am here on behalf of a Government that has maintained, during the presidencies of Néstor and Cristina Kirchner, a  political initiative of transformation which reinvested the State with the role of guarantor of rights, social justice, education, work,  reindustrialization of the country and defence of human rights.
(39.3) The past ten years of Argentinian history have been a successful decade after the horror of the civil-military  dictatorships and the neoliberal experience that brought us the trials of unemployment and social exclusion. During those  years we rebuilt the national education system, which had been badly fragmented. The adoption of seven new laws, including  one relating to financing and one to national education, were part of that reconstruction.
(39.4) In our country, education is a public good; from the primary level until the completion of university studies, the State  guarantees the right of all to education. Public investment in education has risen from 3.80% to 6.50% of the GDP, which has  made it possible to improve significantly infrastructure, equipment and conditions within the education system. We have built
1,800 schools and a plan to build 1,000 more is under way.
(39.5) Teachers’ salaries have increased steadily and nine national universities have been established in recent years. In a  country that is committed to work and national production, we strongly encourage technical education through a specific law  that increased investment. Education is compulsory until the age of 13 and we plan to raise that limit. In addition, 67 million  books for all levels of education have been distributed.
(39.6) Information technology has been provided for all teachers and pupils at the secondary level as well as for students  with disabilities and for teacher training institutions. Two high quality educational channels linking together beauty,  entertainment, science and art are part of the package.
(39.7) We have achieved full enrolment of five-year-olds, and we are planning, on the occasion of our second bicentennial  in 2016, to include all four-year-olds. At the secondary level, coverage exceeds 83%. In the past decade, the number of  university students has increased by 31% and more than 430,000 Argentinians have completed their secondary education  under a special plan for adults.
(39.8) Other inclusive policies were associated with those initiatives, such as universal child benefits to ensure social  protection for millions of families, and the creation of a significant number of jobs.
(39.9) Much has been done, and there are many challenges ahead, for example, a comprehensive approach to early  childhood issues. Poverty snatches away childhood. The first years of life are decisive for the academic careers of children  and youth.
(39.10) We need full enrolment at the secondary level and better completion rates. The school dropout rate continues to  jeopardize the rights of young people. Academic inclusion can only be achieved with positive learning experiences. We must  obtain better results in the basic subjects: language, mathematics, social and natural sciences. We must continue to improve  initial and continuing education for teachers. We recently presented an ambitious triennial teacher training programme for the  one million teachers in Argentina.
(39.11) We believe that it is vital to undertake a comprehensive and ongoing evaluation of the education system. Our  national education assessors identify strengths and weaknesses and enable us to introduce variations and rectifications. We  reaffirm our willingness to participate in international evaluations, but wish to call attention once again to methodological  differences, which we have explained together with other countries in our region.
(39.12) Democratization of higher education must be broadened. Measures to ensure access for youth from disadvantaged  neighbourhoods to public universities should be continued. Education must not leave out the axiological dimension, the  transmission of ethical values such as humanism and peace, and the active memory of the history of our countries. Just a few  days ago, we celebrated 30 years of renewed democracy in our country. Under the democratic system, rights have been  expanded and popular sovereignty has returned.
(39.13) The combat for memory, truth and justice spearheaded by the mothers and grandmothers of Plaza de Mayo is a  symbol in our country of those fruitful years. We welcome the full entry into force of the Audiovisual Communication Services  Law, approved by a vast parliamentary majority and suspended in its execution by legal action taken by monopolistic  companies. We belong to a region of the world in which the different blocks (MERCOSUR, UNASUR, CELAC) have given  priority to integration, peace and the construction of more just societies. Education has remained at the centre of our concerns,  leaving behind the State’s dramatic adjustment and downsizing policies. For millions of children and young people, education  breaks with the future prophesized at birth and forges a destiny of equality and dignity. We must continue investing in order to  guarantee that right. Thank you.
40. The President:   Gracias señor Alberto Sileoni, Ministro de Educación de la Argentina. Next we welcome Her Excellency, the  Honourable Etomonia David Tarpeh, Minister of Education of Liberia.
41.1 Ms Tarpeh (Liberia):   Your Excellency, the President of the General Conference, Your Excellency Director-General of UNESCO, the  Chair and Members of the Executive Board, distinguished ladies and gentlemen, I bring you warm felicitations from Her  Excellency, Ms Ellen Johnson Sirleaf, President of the Republic of Liberia and the Government and people of Liberia.  Excellencies, Liberia continues to make progress in all of the fields of competence of UNESCO. Our education system is  in active transition since the national consultative conference that changed the direction of our education system through  a wide consensus by all of our stakeholders.
41.2 Liberia just recently celebrated 10 consecutive years of peace since the signing of the comprehensive Accra  peace accord in 2003. We salute all of you who have contributed so generously to this hard-earned peace. With national  leadership and support from our international partners, the decentralization of our education system is well on course,  although there is much work to be done. Over the last two years we have been able to increase enrolment at all levels  because of the Liberian Government’s free basic education and early childhood education. This increase in student  growth has led to overcrowded classrooms across the country resulting in a very high teacher-student ratio. Inadequate  numbers of trained teachers and poor school facilities are hampering the learning outcomes of our children. Much work is  needed in these directions.
41.3 The Government, in collaboration with partners in the sector, has several projects which address the low  enrolment of girls, which has always been a problem. Additionally, there are several hostels for girls that have been  reactivated or renovated for the first time and are open to girls who are particularly vulnerable and who are prone to drop  out of school. The Government, with support from donors, has invested significant resources to address these  deficiencies. These resources have been focused mainly on rebuilding facilities; curricular revision; the transformation of  teacher training and schools to make them relevant to post-conflict realities; the reactivation of a vigorous supervision  and monitoring of instruction; the standardization of school designs to include science laboratories, libraries, reading and  teacher housing – these are all areas we are trying to cope with to get our schools back in order. The present challenges  are daunting but the political will is there on the part of our Government to continue the reform process. In order to  improve the delivery of educational services, the Government has begun the implementation of a robust decentralization  of the education system throughout the country. We have established school boards; we have established educational  supervision with competent people who we know will take our education system forward.
41.4 Mr President, Liberia has a youthful population, 53% of whom are under 20 years old. This has placed a  tremendous strain on the education delivery system. The Government is working with the European Union, the Chinese  Government and other international and bilateral organizations to develop a vocational and technical programme that  strives to address the education and skills training needs of these young people. We do know that the areas of vocational  education and youth development, and especially the domains of sciences, are all specialties of UNESCO. We therefore  request the Director-General to join in intervening in the interests of these young people. On the other hand, there is a  crisis in the quality of higher education in our country and UNESCO’s expertise is much needed to critically review the  situation to find a way forward. The quality of the outcomes is of course linked to the poorly-prepared students who enter  our universities. UNESCO’s experience in this area will enable us to conduct a situational analysis to understand better  these problems.
41.5 The Government has a freedom of information law which guarantees access to all information. The Liberian  people today enjoy freedom of speech more than ever before in our country. Journalists in our country enjoy  unprecedented freedom of expression. My Government appreciates the work that UNESCO is doing to protect the rights  of minorities and guard the cultural heritage of Member States. Consequently, Liberia has declared ecological tourism a  priority programme of our economy. We therefore request your support for the inclusion of Providence Island as a  UNESCO world heritage site. Providence Island is where the free slaves from the Americas and the West Indies settled  in Liberia. We also wish to express our profound gratitude to UNESCO for establishing the UNESCO/Mary Antoinette  Browne Sherman Chair for Sustainable Education. We anticipate an ongoing collaboration with UNESCO in making the  Chair a functional reality. We anticipate that the Chair will be occupied by a renowned scholar for relevant educational  innovations. Madam Director-General, fellow delegates, we urge you to join us in ensuring that initiatives that are being  taken by the Government of Liberia will in some significant way continue to construct strongholds for peace, tolerance  and the protection of human rights. I thank you.  Ms Mitrofanova (Russian Federation) takes the Chair.
42. The President:   Thank you very much, Your Excellency and now I welcome His Excellency, Mr Zoltán Balog, Minister of Human  Resources of Hungary. Please, the floor is yours.
43.1 Mr Balog (Hungary):   Madam President, Madam Chair of the Executive Board, Madam Director-General, Your Excellencies, ladies  and gentlemen, on behalf of the Hungarian Government please allow me to start by congratulating Mr Hao Ping on being  elected as President. I would also like to commend the outstanding work of Katalin Bogyay, Ambassador of Hungary to  UNESCO, President of the 36th session of the General Conference. Dear Katalin, the Hungarian Government and your  country, Hungary, are proud of you. Thank you for your excellent work. Let me congratulate the Director-General for her  re-nomination and her ongoing efforts to build a visible, capable, credible and effective UNESCO. Hungary fully supports  the reform process which was launched by Ms Bokova. I would like to thank UNESCO for its collaboration at the
142  Budapest Water Summit this October. The Budapest Statement was adopted unanimously at the end of the summit. This  statement makes suggestions for the United Nations Member States for the post-2015 water-related sustainable  development goals. We are holding the Budapest World Science Forum this year in Brazil, together with UNESCO and  the Brazilian Academy of Sciences. The Budapest World Science Forum, being held for the first time outside Hungary,  will make this important science meeting even more global and shows the commitment of the Hungarian Government to  playing a crucial role in science diplomacy worldwide.
43.2 Because of Hungary’s commitment to the protection of our environment we have applied for membership of the  International Coordinating Council of the Man and the Biosphere Programme. We are committed to working towards  transboundary biosphere reserves which put emphasis not only on preserving and protecting natural values, but also on  creating sustainable development and improving the living conditions of the rural population. This accepted biosphere  reserve programme is a perfect example of international cooperation and hopefully more countries will join the  nomination.
43.3 Ladies and gentlemen, Holocaust and Roma education are very much at the forefront of Hungary’s education  priorities. We are honoured that UNESCO has granted patronage to the Holocaust Memorial Year 2014 in Hungary. This  patronage was officially announced in Budapest last week by Dr Samuel Pisar, UNESCO Honorary Ambassador and  Special Envoy for Holocaust education in Hungary. The memorial year will commemorate the 70th anniversary of the  deportation of Hungarian Jews and will mainly focus on education and culture. In Roma education, we have introduced  measures to help to preserve Roma identity, their language and cultural traditions. The Hungarian Roma, just like any  other Hungarian nationalities, can initiate education in their own language, and the teaching of the Romani language. We  are the first country in the world where each student has to learn about the history and culture of Hungarian Roma. In the  curriculum, cultural diversity, the history of the nationalities living in Hungary and the need for tolerance and acceptance  are highly stressed. Moreover, students can learn about the negative effects of exclusion, racism and anti-Semitism  during various courses. Roma education is strongly related to our social transformation. With this is mind, Hungary is  standing in the elections to the Intergovernmental Council of the Management of Social Transformations Programme  (MOST).
43.4 Ladies and gentlemen, cultural diversity is of utmost importance for the Hungarian Government. It is a part of the  Hungarian cultural tradition, to have different approaches towards our own identity. “Always keep west, but never forget  that you come from the east” – this sentence by the famous Hungarian writer, Sándor Márai has always been relevant  throughout the last 1,000 years of Hungarian history. We Hungarians keep discussing: are we a bridge or a ferry  between East and West? But we also have friends in the South and North.
43.4 And for Hungary, heritage protection has always been a high priority. Therefore Hungary is applying to be a  member of the Intergovernmental Committee for the Safeguarding of the Intangible Cultural Heritage. Besides the  protection of intangible and tangible cultural heritage, the world heritage programme is also widely acknowledged in  Hungary. The Hungarian Parliament adopted the law on world heritage that entered into force in January 2012 in order to  provide a solid legal and institutional basis for the implementation of the World Heritage Convention. The purpose is to  ensure the efficient management of Hungarian world heritage sites and the protection of their outstanding universal value,  in line with the principles of sustainable development. Ladies and gentlemen, finally let me emphasize that the Hungarian  Government is fully committed to UNESCO’s values in our educational, cultural, science and sports programmes. Thank  you for your attention.
(45.1) Mr Al-Ashwal (Yemen) (translation from the Arabic):   Madam President of the General Conference, Madam Chair of the Executive Board, Madam Director-General,  Excellencies and dear participants, as-salāmu ‘alaikum wa-raḥmatu llāhi wa-barakātuh (peace and the mercy and blessings of  God be upon you). I should like, at the outset, on behalf of my delegation, to voice our sincere thanks and appreciation for the  outstanding efforts that have gone into the preparation of this conference, which we hope will attain effective results which are  conducive to achieving and strengthening UNESCO’s message, values and principles. I also address to you, Mr President, my  congratulations on your election as President of the General Conference for this session.
(45.2) Yemen is undergoing change, as witnessed by the fact that this conference is being held – Yemenis are going  through a crucial moment in their life. After a period of unilateralism, individualism and conflict, and in the understanding that  life is too short to be spent in hatred and strife, Yemenis are now nearing the end of their Global Conference on National  Dialogue, in which all the various social categories, party allegiances and cultural sensibilities have come together in an  inclusive conference in which they have adopted the values of dialogue, co-existence, integration, cooperation, acceptance of  the Other, respect and peace as a constitution for equality, clinging to the hope for a more radiant future which may lay the  foundations of a new Yemen, a civilian State based on right, justice, freedom, equality, social peace, equal opportunity and a  life of dignity. This is a dream and a hope which all Yemenis hope to realize by means of dialogue, in partnership with their  brethren and friends and the entire international community, together with its organizations and agencies.
(45.3) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the coalition government of Yemen has adopted a development and  stability plan, which includes the following priorities: generalizing education and achieving justice and equity so as to remove  the gender gap in education, because we believe that if we educate a girl we will have educated a nation, enhancing the  quality of education, devoting attention to developing and updating vocational education and training, reducing illiteracy,  enhancing and developing the quality of programmes of higher education and scientific research – focusing on knowledge and  skills outputs, values and behaviour as a knowledge-based economy, preserving the cultural heritage and the environment  and environmental diversity, deepening and disseminating the culture of dialogue and partnership, and laying the foundations  of social peace, in effective cooperation and collaboration with all partners, providing young people with initial and in-service  training in life skills and the job market, harnessing and directing their energies towards creativity and innovation and serving  the community, disseminating and strengthening the values of democracy, consultation, tolerance and fraternity, and  combating extremism and terrorism.
(45.4) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, let us reflect on the words of the Pakistani student Malala Yousafzai in her  speech last April at United Nations Headquarters, in which she urged us: “Let us wage a global struggle against illiteracy,  poverty and terrorism, and let us pick up our books and pens. They are our most powerful weapons. One child, one teacher,  one pen and one book can change the world if there is education for all.” This is what George Bernard Shaw was stressing  when he said, “This is the true joy in life, the being used for a purpose recognized by yourself as a mighty one … instead of  [being] a feverish selfish clod of ailments and grievances …” This is what our heritage stresses and what our Prophet says –  seek knowledge from the cradle to the grave; the search for knowledge is an obligation on all Muslims, men and women.  Indeed, lifelong education should form part of the vision which UNESCO redoubles its efforts to achieve: constant drops of  water can hollow out the deepest of rocks; the distance matters little – it is the first step that is the most difficult. Is it not time? I  fear that we are distracted and expectant today, and are likely to remain so tomorrow, until it becomes too late.
(45.5) Finally, UNESCO’s programmes and initiatives for the coming biennium and also its Medium-Term Strategy need to  be more comprehensive, precise and committed in addressing the challenges and risks of today’s world, through its  civilizational message aimed at preserving the Earth, humankind, the seas and the oceans so that ours may be a world in  which the culture of love, fraternity, peace and dialogue prevails over the culture of love of force, unilateralism, hegemony,  conflict and anarchy; we need to make those desiderata indicators for measuring the success and quality of education post-
2015. My best wishes for the success of the General Conference, and to you, ladies and gentlemen, all my love and  appreciation. As-salāmu ‘alaikum wa-raḥmatu llāhi wa-barakātuh (Peace and the mercy and blessings of God be upon you).
46. The President:   Thank you very much Your Excellency. And now I welcome here His Excellency Mr Lahcen Daoudi, Minister of  Higher Education, Scientific Research and Training of Managers of Morocco.
(47.1) Mr Daoudi (Morocco) (translation from the Arabic):   Bismillāh ir-raḥmān ir-raḥīm (In the name of God, the Merciful, the Compassionate). Aṣ-ṣalāh wa-s-salām ‘alà ashraf  al-mursalīn (Prayer and peace be upon the noblest of prophets). Madam President, Madam Chair of the Executive Board,  Madam Director-General of UNESCO, ladies and gentlemen, heads of delegation, as-salāmu ‘alaikum wa-raḥmatu llāhi wa- barakātuh (peace and the mercy and blessings of God be upon you). To begin with, I should like to offer sincere  congratulations to Mr Hao Ping on the confidence shown in him by the representatives of the Member States in electing him  President of the General Conference, in view of his competence, knowledge and flexibility. I also congratulate Anguilla on  having become an Associate Member of our Organization. I thank Ms Katalin Bogyay, President of the previous session of the  General Conference, for her tremendous and much appreciated efforts between sessions. I also express thanks and  appreciation to Ms Irina Bokova, Director-General of UNESCO, for all her praiseworthy actions to enhance the Organization’s  performance, and I convey to her sincere thanks for her efforts to reaffirm and strengthen cooperation between Morocco and  UNESCO. I congratulate her on the confidence demonstrated in her by the Executive Board in nominating her for a second  term as Director-General of UNESCO.
(47.2) Ladies and gentlemen, the 37th session of the General Conference comes at a politically significant time for Morocco.  His Majesty Mohammed VI has just appointed a new government which includes among its members six women with  important ministerial portfolios relating to UNESCO’s fields of competence. Ladies and gentlemen, thanks to its intense efforts  to implement the education for all (EFA) programme, Morocco has made significant gains in generalizing schooling at all  educational levels. At the primary level, we have achieved a 97.5% schooling rate, and we have made encouraging advances  with respect to the schooling of girls in rural villages, and reducing the gender gap and the urban/rural divide. Morocco has  also made tremendous efforts in the fields of formal and non-formal education and adult education, which have made it  possible to achieve a significant 30% reduction of illiteracy by the end of 2013. These efforts have received international  recognition with Morocco being awarded the UNESCO Confucius Prize for Literacy in 2012.
(47.3) With regard to enhancing the quality of education, Morocco has been engaged in a comprehensive series of  pedagogical reforms involving the modernization and development of educational curricula and programmes, encouraging the  orientation of students towards science and technology, and strengthening that approach by including information and  communication technology in education by means of a national project aimed at generalizing ICTs in all educational and  university institutions, and considering the principles of human rights and citizenship and gender equality education as  fundamental components thereof. With regard to the relevance of education for the needs of sustainable development and  strengthening the links between educational and university institutions and the constantly evolving needs of their economic  and social environment, the efforts exerted to develop university education are aimed at introducing specialized forms of  vocational education consecrated by BA and Masters diplomas. In this connection, I cannot fail to mention the great attention  Morocco devotes to scientific research and the important role it plays in bringing about a comprehensive national renaissance.  This attention has taken the form of actions by the ministry to devise a plan for 2012-2016 to develop a system of scientific and  technical research and innovation, which have consisted in drawing up programmes for the use of universities when preparing  well-structured projects aimed at building the capacities of our national research and innovation system, and enhancing its  performance, governance and profitability.
(47.4) With regard to governance, Morocco has adopted a democratic approach based on regionalism, decentralization and  deconcentration, and on open bidding for public contracts. This approach has made it possible to strengthen the  independence of universities and educational institutions. Ladies and gentlemen, in the cultural field, the Government has  endeavoured to build awareness of the tangible and intangible world heritage and its preservation and sustainable  management, and strengthening international and regional cooperation in order to build national capacities to preserve the  heritage and develop traditional, cultural and creative industries. Morocco also managed in 2012 to have Rabat, the capital of  Morocco, classed as part of the UNESCO world heritage.
(47.5) In the field of information and communication, the Government has made efforts to ensure an appropriate climate for  freedom of the press and the safety of journalists, and to strengthen pluralism and inclusiveness in developing the information  media and supporting media institutions in order to ensure their future and sustainability. It has also worked to facilitate access  to information and knowledge and to develop an information society, pursuant to the recommendations of the World Summit  on the Information Society (WSIS). Ladies and gentlemen, with a view to ensuring a better chance of attaining the objectives  recommended in the social fields, the government has devoted particular attention within the framework of its programme for
2012-2016 to promoting the rights of women, children, the family, individuals with disabilities, and persons in the vulnerable  categories, by developing and implementing the Government’s equality plan. With God’s help, we shall pursue our efforts to  contribute constructively to all of UNESCO’s programmes, and we thank the Organization and its staff, who are doing their  best to serve its Member States. Thank you for your attention. As-salāmu ‘alaikum wa-raḥmatu llāhi wa-barakātuh (Peace and  the mercy and blessings of God be upon you).
48. The President:   Thank you very much Your Excellency. Now I welcome His Excellency Dr Tim Gopeesingh, Minister of  Education of Trinidad and Tobago.
49.1 Mr Gopeesingh (Trinidad and Tobago):   Madam President, Madam Chair of the Executive Board, Director-General, honourable ministers and heads of  delegations, delegates of our country Trinidad and Tobago, Caribbean colleagues, other invitees, distinguished ladies  and gentlemen, a pleasant good evening to all. Trinidad and Tobago congratulates you, our re-nominated Director- General, Ms lrina Bokova, on your achievements over the last four years and wishes you continued success. We  sincerely thank outgoing President, Ms Katalin Bogyay, for her sterling contribution to the success of the 36th session of  the General Conference. We welcome the new President, Mr Hao Ping, and we look forward, Sir, to your stewardship.  Our Prime Minister, Ms Kamla Persad-Bissessar, our country’s first female Prime Minister in 51 years of independence  from colonial governance, our Government and people send their best wishes to UNESCO for continued success. Also,  as Trinidad and Tobago reflects on our journey of 51 years as a UNESCO Member State, we remember another light,  Ms Sheilah Solomon, who passed away recently. She was recognized by UNESCO as one of the 60 women contributing  to its efforts in constructing the foundations of peace; she was the first Secretary-General of our National Commission 51  years ago and also served as a Member of UNESCO’s Executive Board. Incidentally, this time around Trinidad and  Tobago is again seeking membership of the Executive Board and we trust we will have all of your support in this bid for  our candidacy given the outstanding track record of international representation our international citizens hold.
49.2 We thank the Director-General for her kind invitation to one of our very special citizens, Ms Shamla Maharaj, to  participate in the just-concluded Youth Forum. This exemplary young lady was born with cerebral palsy but defied the  physical restrictions and social stigma to excel and is one of our youth ambassadors and national awardee for her  inspiring struggle to achieve beyond her affliction. We fully support UNESCO’s thrust in education towards ICT, as was  enunciated in the World Education Forum in London in January; technical and vocal education and training (TVET) from  the Shanghai Declaration in 2012; universal early childhood care and education (ECCE) and teacher training and  development. Trinidad and Tobago has now re-engineered and transformed its education system in pursuit of fulfilling  those objectives, among others, in our new “excellence in education” paradigm. ln keeping with UNESCO’s education for  sustainable development drive, we have ensured active educational intervention for our students with special needs and  challenges, in areas of dyslexia, autism, attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD), Down syndrome, behavioural  and psychological abnormalities and neurological diseases, with our education inclusion focus.
49.3 We have attained free universal, primary, secondary, and tertiary education. Our students are being supported  through primary to tertiary education with books, personal laptops, transport, meals and scholarships, and we are moving  swiftly to achieving universal early childhood education. We have transformed our primary school curriculum to include  moral values, ethics, citizenship, character development, physical education, and visual and performing arts. All  entrance-level secondary school students are given personal laptops, and soon, too, all upper-level primary students, as  we continue to bridge the digital divide nationally and ensure a highly technologically literate population.
49.4 We have also advanced tertiary education through six tertiary learning institutions, including our national  university and our internationally distinguished University of the West lndies. The Director-General will be pleased to  know that as an offspring of her “10,000 Principals Leadership Programme”, we launched this year with resources from  my Government, the private sector and from UNESCO’s private sector-public sector partnership, a pilot to train principals  and teachers in leading for literacy in primary schools. Already we are seeing tangible results from this as part of a  decade for literacy focus by our National Commission which also foresees extending this drive to our Caribbean  counterparts. We envision the launch of a similar numeracy initiative, and expansion of digital archiving and additional  submissions to the Memory of the World Programme as a global bank of documentary heritage of humanity this coming  year.
49.5 We in Trinidad and Tobago proudly offer to our global family another outstanding track record – our experiences  of attaining mutual respect, understanding and appreciation of each other’s religions, cultures and ethnicities in our  multicultural mosaic – from Africa, lndia, immigrants and from your country, China too, Mr President, since the nineteenth  century, and more recent labour movements, all part of the continuing global movements of the last 500 years. Our  Prime Minister is the current Chair of the Caribbean Community (CARICOM) and Trinidad and Tobago, if afforded the  opportunity to become a Member of the Executive Board next week, will work to given enlightened guidance on the drive  for reparations in ways that speak to strengthening of our socio-cultural systems. We propose to do this by deepening  cross-regional partnerships with Europe, Africa and Asia in implementing the culture conventions, and such initiatives as  the transatlantic slave trade and Memory of the World projects in which we have partnered with other nations. These  include listing of two significant archives – the registry of slaves of the British Caribbean and records of indentured  immigrants. We are also looking at ratifying the 1970 Convention on the Means of Prohibiting and Preventing the Illicit  Import, Export and Transfer of Ownership of Cultural Property as we become more and more vulnerable to this threat  with the increasing international value of heritage items in global markets.
49.6 Finally, Madam President, I renew Trinidad and Tobago’s invitation, now to yourself and the Director-General  and other States here, to be our guest whenever possible so that you can share in both our efforts outlined above and  others aimed at fulfilling the UNESCO mandate of building peace in the minds of men and women. You can, of course,  get a sneak preview of the immense creativity and dynamism of our people from our input into the Caribbean evening in  support of our three candidates for the Executive Board on Monday 11 November, when the steel orchestra from our little  sister island, Tobago, will regale you with music from our national instrument, the Steelpan, the only musical instrument  invented in the twentieth century and a valuable dimension to the world’s tangible and intangible heritage. As you will see  and hear then, Mr President, distinguished delegates, great waves can indeed be made by a small island. I thank you for  your kind attention. Merci.
50. The President:   Thank you very much Your Excellency, and now I welcome His Excellency Mr Muhammad Baligh ur Rehman,  Minister of State for Education, Training and Standards in Higher Education of Pakistan.
51.1 Mr Baligh ur Rehman (Pakistan):   Bismillāh ir-rahmān ir-rahīm. Honourable President of the General Conference and Deputy Director-General of  UNESCO, Madam Chair of the Executive Board, distinguished delegates, Excellencies, ladies and gentlemen, I feel  delighted to address this august gathering of the 37th session of the General Conference. Despite financial issues and  the energy crisis facing the country, situations of law and order, terrorism, threats to girls’ schools in certain areas of the  country, and illegal drone attacks by the United States, which are actually hampering peace talks in the war zone, our  Government stands firmly committed to the cause of education, which is our foremost priority. We are determined to turn  around the current low net enrolment rate, high dropout rate, low literacy, less access to TVET and higher education  sectors.
51.2 Pakistan believes in UNESCO, its mission and its goals and the role performed by it in developing international  cooperation and promoting peace and sustainable development through various initiatives. UNESCO needs to maintain  its leadership in the five areas of its competence. I believe that the theme chosen for the Leader’s Forum is very relevant  for our debate as well. We are discussing UNESCO’s role in determining the post-2015 development agenda and want to  see UNESCO lead in setting the United Nations strategy and policy for education beyond 2015. Before we set on the  path to determine the next millennium development goals (MDGs) or sustainable development goals, we need to keep in  mind the relative importance of different issues between the North and the South.
51.3 This new development agenda needs to be simple, action-oriented and based on universally accepted values  and ethical principles, allowing significant policy space to the countries at different stages of development and respecting  national policies and priorities. We need to avoid the mistakes of the past while setting our future. We have to create  institutional mechanisms that would trickle the benefits of economic growth to the poor. My Government believes that  market excess in the form of lowering of trade barriers and transfer of technology is far more important in the quest for  development than foreign aid. Such an approach would set the new global agenda based upon partnerships in  development.
51.4 Ladies and gentlemen, the gaps between illiterates, literates with basic literacy and literates with digital literacy  and access is widening day by day. ICT policy needs to be introduced but after utmost thoughtful debate. The national  governments have to act. Young people need to be engaged and employment opportunities need to be created as these  provide the only sustainable means of poverty reduction. People are not just beneficiaries of development; they have to  be involved in the process of development as main actors. This would require education and inclusion. lt is necessary to  ensure that the process of growth is pro-poor. ln short if there was only one development agenda beyond 2015, it should
147  be equitable sustainable human development, and the goals should be termed as human development goals, as  sustainable development is not an end in itself – it is the process that leads to the ultimate goal of human development.
51.5 Pakistan calls for an equal partnership between industrialized and the developing countries. At the same time,  there is much need for partnership among the developing countries at different levels of development, particularly  between the emerging economies and the least developed countries (LDCs). Ladies and gentlemen, education still  remains one of the core unfinished businesses of the MDGs and education for all goals and must be prioritized in the  post-2015 agenda. The next education agenda needs to address the wide disparities among regions and within countries.  The issue of quality has been left unaddressed. Similarly, secondary and tertiary education, adult literacy, and technical  and vocational education need to be taken into account.
51.6 Pakistan supports the consensus reached at the 2013 Global Consultation on Education in the Post-2015  Agenda held in Dakar in March 2013 for a new education goal, namely equitable, quality education and lifelong learning  for all. We also find the document presented by the Secretariat for education beyond 2015 to be a good starting point.  We also stress the importance of UNESCO’s cultural conventions, particularly the 1970 Convention on the Means of  Prohibiting and Preventing the Illicit Import, Export and Transfer of Ownership of Cultural Property and call for its  strengthening. We are thankful to UNESCO for creating the Malala Fund for the cause of girls’ education around the  globe. I am pleased to inform you that Pakistan has contributed $10 million to this noble cause. I urge all of you to  contribute generously to this fund to help bring an end to gender disparity. Towards that end, I would stress the need to  recognize our joint responsibility to make this Organization functional and efficient. lt is faced with the worst financial  crisis ever. Member States have to rescue it. As the mandate of UNESCO is too close to our hearts, we have to foresee  such crises and develop long-term solutions to deal with them. Those who are defaulting on payments also need to  realize their responsibility towards this Organization. Thank you very much.
52. The President:   Thank you very much Your Excellency, and now I welcome Professor Jacob Kaimenyi, Cabinet Secretary of the  State Department of Education, Science and Technology of Kenya. Please, the floor is yours.
53.1 Mr Kaimenyi (Kenya):   President of the General Conference, Excellencies, distinguished delegates, ladies and gentlemen, I join my  colleagues in congratulating Mr Hao Ping on his election as President of the 37th session of the General Conference of  UNESCO. I also wish to congratulate the Director-General and her team for their dedicated work on the implementation  of reforms within UNESCO.
53.2 Madam President, in 2010 Kenya promulgated a new constitution which declared education as a basic human  right and made provisions for equity by providing social and economic opportunities. The education sector has since  realigned its policies and programmes to these provisions. During the last five years, Kenya has increased access to  education through free primary, free day secondary education, and the rapid expansion of tertiary institutions. Kenya is  committed to providing education for sustainable development, peace and the self-actualization of its citizens. We have  also incorporated environmental education, peace and life skills into the curriculum. It is in this regard, ladies and  gentlemen, that we fully support UNESCO’s engagement in education for sustainable development (ESD) through the  global action programme on ESD as a follow-up to the United Nations Decade of Education for Sustainable Development.  In the recognition of ICT as a key factor for the development of knowledge societies, we have as a nation embarked on a  project to provide primary school children with laptops by 2014. Education quality assurance bodies have also been  restructured at all levels so as to strengthen education quality. However, I wish to note that major challenges still face the  education sector in our motherland. These include increasing numbers of vulnerable groups, rising teachers’ wage bill,  high number of refugees due to regional conflicts and high unemployment rates. Despite these challenges, the  Government of Kenya remains committed to provide quality education for all.
53.3 Madam President, Kenya is dedicated to effective preservation and management of its heritage for the benefit of  all humanity. Recently, Mount Kenya-Lewa Wildlife Conservancy was added to the World Heritage List as an extension  of Mount Kenya. This proves that Kenya has enhanced private-public partnerships in its efforts to conserve world  heritage. Furthermore, Kenya notes that there is still a lack of policy to enable developing nations to concurrently  preserve world heritage and undertake projects such as infrastructure development. Such a policy will enable  communities to enjoy the benefits of development and heritage conservation without conflicts of interest. Kenya will  pursue the mapping and development of geoparks in order to sustain conservation and protect geological heritage.
53.4 Kenya recognizes science, technology and innovation (STI) as critical drivers of sustainable growth and social  transformation. The Government is committed to providing at least 2% of its GDP towards research and innovation. The  UNESCO Chairs and UNITWIN network play an important role in enhancing UNESCO’s visibility and impact. In Kenya,  the UNESCO Chair on Women’s Education, Community Health and Sustainable Development is actively spearheading a  programme on universities for a sustainable culture of peace, while the UNESCO Chair in Bioethics is promoting the  principles of the Universal Declaration on Bioethics and Human Rights. Ladies and gentlemen, in this regard Kenya is  interested in working with UNESCO towards establishing a Chair on Youth. Finally, Kenya thanks Member States for  their support and will continue supporting UNESCO in its activities. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen. May God bless  you all.
54. The President:   Thank you very much. Now I give the floor to His Excellency, Mr Marek Mad’arič, Minister of Culture of Slovakia.  Please, the floor is yours.
55.1 M. Maďarič (Slovaquie) :   Madame la Vice-Présidente de la Conférence générale, Madame la Présidente du Conseil exécutif, Mesdames  et Messieurs, en tant que Ministre de la culture, je tiens à vous assurer que, même en cette période de changements  sociaux, économiques et financiers, le Gouvernement de la République slovaque conçoit la culture comme une base  intrinsèque de la société, qu’elle fédère par des valeurs et en participant à la création d’identités nationales, locales et  autres.
55.2 Le Gouvernement slovaque compte inclure la culture dans les documents stratégiques de développement des  autorités centrales de l’administration d’État, mais aussi dans les documents des institutions nationales de recherche  scientifique. Notre gouvernement appuie pleinement la créativité et le patrimoine, qui constituent la force motrice du  développement durable et de la paix. La Slovaquie prête une attention particulière à la transposition effective au plan  national de tous les instruments juridiques internationaux de l’UNESCO concernant la culture, à l’amélioration de l’état  des sites inscrits ou nommés sur la Liste du patrimoine mondial – culturel et naturel – et aux différents éléments inscrits  ou nommés sur la liste représentative du patrimoine culturel immatériel de l’humanité. Selon nous, le dialogue  interculturel et la diversité culturelle en Europe ne sont pas des phénomènes propres à la seule culture européenne – car  celle-ci résulte de différentes cultures, qui s’unissent dans cet espace géographique pour modeler non seulement son  identité culturelle mais aussi son intégrité spatiale. Je souhaiterais que le Programme et budget de l’UNESCO soient  approuvés, de telle sorte qu’ils contribuent de manière concrète à la réalisation du programme de développement pour  l’après-2015.
55.3 Dans le domaine de la formation, la Slovaquie appuie l’objectif stratégique de l’Organisation qui consiste à  développer le programme de formation pour tous et à élaborer le futur programme international de formation. Malgré un  budget en diminution, la Slovaquie appuie l’UNESCO dans le domaine de la formation et de l’inclusion des enfants et  des jeunes gens d’origine rom. Dans le cadre du programme participatif de l’UNESCO pour les années 2012 et 2013,  l’Organisation a approuvé deux projets en faveur de la République slovaque, et cela malgré sa situation financière  défavorable. Le premier portait sur la formation préscolaire par l’entremise des parents d’enfants roms et d’autres  enfants défavorisés, le second visant à réduire le fossé numérique en Afrique. Ces deux projets prenaient donc en  considération les priorités globales de l’Organisation, c’est-à-dire la formation et l’Afrique. En ce qui concerne le domaine  de l’éducation et de la formation, notre objectif est d’enrichir la ligne programmatique de l’UNESCO en la matière et de la  rendre plus efficiente encore grâce à l’édification du Centre de formation inclusive pour les enfants défavorisés en  Europe centrale et orientale – modèle de centre virtuel susceptible d’être appliqué ailleurs dans le monde.
55.4 La Slovaquie favorise toutes les corrélations possibles entre les politiques scientifiques, sociales, ethniques et  d’intégration au service du développement durable, ainsi que la coopération scientifique internationale en faveur de la  paix et de l’inclusion sociale. Dans le but de renforcer les capacités des pays membres aux fins d’une meilleure gestion  des défis bioéthiques qui accompagnent le développement des sciences et des technologies, mais aussi d’appliquer les  principes bioéthiques dans la vie pratique et de participer pleinement au débat sur la bioéthique à l’échelle mondiale, la  République slovaque a organisé la huitième session ordinaire de la Commission mondiale d'éthique des connaissances  scientifiques et des technologies (COMEST), qui s’est tenue à Bratislava en mai 2013.
55.5 Dans le domaine de l’environnement, la Slovaquie met en œuvre les principales mesures et tâches relatives à la  conservation de l’environnement pour les années 2014 à 2020, conformément aux conclusions de la Conférence  Rio + 20. La République  accorde une attention particulière au patrimoine naturel et s’efforce d’obtenir l’inscription de  nouveaux sites naturels sur la Liste du patrimoine mondial.
55.6 L’une des priorités de la Slovaquie est l’appui à la liberté d’expression, au développement des médias et à  l’accès universel à l’information et au savoir. Dans le domaine de la communication et de l’information, le défi consiste à  améliorer le fonctionnement de médias pluralistes, notamment grâce à l’adoption de politiques publiques sensibles à la  parité des sexes et au renforcement des droits des citoyens, surtout ceux des jeunes.
55.7 Madame la Présidente, je vous souhaite tout le succès possible durant la 37e session de la Conférence  générale de l’UNESCO et vous remercie de votre attention bienveillante. Merci.
56. The President:   Thank you very much Your Excellency. Now I welcome Her Excellency, Ms Patricia Lourens-Philips, Minister for  Education, Youth, Culture and Sports of Sint Maarten. Please, the floor is yours.
57.1 Ms Lourens-Philips (Sint Maarten):   Madam President, Madam Director-General, Your Excellencies, distinguished delegates, ladies and gentlemen,  Mr President, as the new Minister for Education, Youth, Culture and Sports of Sint Maarten, it is an honour and pleasure  for me to participate in this illustrious event. Let me take a few seconds to extend on behalf of Sint Maarten  congratulations to the people of Anguilla on achieving associate membership of UNESCO. Anguilla is one of Sint  Maarten’s neighbouring islands, less than 30 minutes away by boat. Our people share many common aspects of culture,  economic and social activity.
57.2 Madam President, Sint Maarten became a country within the Kingdom of the Netherlands in October 2010, and  a year later we became an Associate Member of UNESCO. Since then we have made important strides in many areas  and I would like to share with you our major achievements. The legal framework for the installation of Sint Maarten’s  National Commission for UNESCO has been approved by the Government, the Secretariat is functional and a Secretary- General for UNESCO has been appointed.
57.3 In the domain of culture on Sint Maarten, where the preservation and highlighting of our national heritage is  concerned, historically 1 July is known as our Day of Emancipation. This day was proclaimed as a public holiday for the
149  first time in 2012 to afford our people the opportunity to reflect on the atrocities of slavery and celebrate our freedom from  its shackles. Also in 2012 and 2013 the Governor of Sint Maarten hosted two symposia with the themes “National  Heritage: its historical, cultural and economic importance” and “Sustainable Development: challenges for Sint Maarten as  a small island Caribbean nation” respectively. These symposia brought together a large cross-section of the community  of our island as well as professionals from neighbouring islands. By ministerial decree at the beginning of this year, the  decade started in 2013 and ending in 2023 was proclaimed: “The Decade of Revitalizing Our Natural and Cultural  Heritage”.
57.4 Madam President, against this backdrop Sint Maarten is in the process of acceding to the 2003 Convention for  the Safeguarding of the Intangible Cultural Heritage. In addition, we support and endorse the project proposal on  strengthening capacities to implement the 2003 Convention in Aruba, Curaçao, Bonaire, Sint Maarten, Sint Eustatius and  Saba, in cooperation with the Netherlands and Suriname, which will be realized in 2014. The cultural institutional  infrastructure of Sint Maarten was further advanced by the establishment of the foundation called “PitchIT Caribbean”.  PitchIT Caribbean proposes to collaborate with other Member States in the Caribbean and to serve as the portal for the  tangible cultural heritage project called “The Eastern Caribbean Coastal Fortifications and Related Cultural Landscapes”.  In this context, I call attention to one of our new objectives, which is to obtain recognition for a category 2 centre on Sint  Maarten. Our proposal for this centre is to serve as a world-renowned professional institute in the area of tangible cultural  heritage supported by information technology.
57.5 Culture and education meet where the focus on the youth of Sint Maarten begins. Madam President,  representing the multicultural composition of our society, our young people came together in a youth round table  conference in September of this year. The preliminary report of the youth round table conference cited identity as an area  of importance to our young people. As a result, Sint Maarten’s 2013 programme in commemoration of International  Children’s Rights Day will focus on identity under the theme “My right to an identity: my right to belong.” Our youth  parliament engages in annual sessions at the parliament of Sint Maarten’s headquarters.
57.6 As far as science is concerned, Madam President, a Man and the Biosphere (MAB) committee has been  established on Sint Maarten. A potential site has been selected as a biosphere reserve and presently the committee is  engaging in the process to request the designation of the selected site as a UNESCO reserve.
57.7 In the area of education, Madam President, I am proud to announce that Sint Maarten now has its own national  institute for technical and vocational education. Our Government is committed to providing the students of this institute  for continuing and tertiary education with appropriate knowledge, skills and competencies to enable them to either  successfully enter the job market or to actively pursue an opportunity for self-employment. Mr President, I am equally  proud to announce yet another project to you, which is the “one laptop per child” project. The ambitious goals of this  project are to provide a tablet to each student, to equip our schools with the necessary infrastructure and provide our  teachers with the necessary training to make our education system relevant to the technological requirements of the  twenty-first century.
57.8 In order to provide optimal development opportunities for our students with special needs, we engaged the  assistance of a United States university to categorize the special needs of our students and to make recommendations  for individual remediation plans. In closing Mr President, it is our aim as a new Associate Member of this august body, to  continue building on what we have embarked upon and developing new initiatives in the area of education, science, and  culture in our continued efforts to uphold the ideals and goals of UNESCO. In light of this we would like to take this  opportunity to announce our full support and sponsorship of the draft resolution to reinforce UNESCO’s strategy in small  island developing States (SIDS) as part of the post-2015 development agenda. I thank you for your attention.
58. The President:   Thank you very much Your Excellency. Now I welcome His Excellency, Mr Vjačeslavs Dombrovskis, Minister of  Education and Sciences of Latvia.
59.1 Mr Dombrovskis (Latvia):   Madam President, Madam Director-General, distinguished colleagues; I have the honour to speak on behalf of  the Republic of Latvia. We regard this Conference as a great opportunity to stress the global commitments to the  reaching of the Millennium Development Goals and to provide a common vision and structure for the post-2015  development agenda. In the past decade, the Millennium Development Goals have been an essential part of the global  struggle to reduce poverty and maintain social and economic development. Even though progress towards reaching  these goals has been remarkable, the challenge to ensure well-being, justice, equal rights and opportunities for everyone  is still a part of the global agenda to which Latvia remains committed and it is ready to share its reform experience.
59.2 The United Nations Decade of Education for Sustainable Development has changed our vision of development  by enriching it with different dimensions: social, environmental, and economic and by emphasizing culture as its driving  force. Education of the twenty-first century is no longer seen as a subject-based transfer of knowledge from a teacher to  a student. It is an interdisciplinary, holistic, interactive and inclusive process of lifelong learning. Therefore, we see the  post-2015 agenda of education as universally applicable and addressing the most compelling global challenges such as  the transition from a consumer society to a knowledge society that consists of creative individuals who live according to  principles of sustainability. Education in the twenty-first century must be based on values and emphasise the tangible,  intangible and documentary heritage as an asset of human development and the role of education in promoting and  preserving it. We are proud of the 25th Latvian National Song and Dance Festival, a tradition that is included in the  UNESCO’s Representative List of the Intangible Cultural Heritage of Humanity. This year, the event brought together  thousands of talented people, singers and dancers from Latvia and they are already preparing for the 11th Latvian Youth,
150  Song and Dance Festival in 2015, stressing the value and success of education and after-school activities in fostering  traditional values and strengthening national identity.
59.3 Ladies and gentlemen, it is important to ensure that opportunities offered by the development of information and  communication technologies are used fully to contribute to peace and sustainable development. We believe that access  to information and knowledge has to be universal and equitable. Latvia strongly supports the basic principle that the  same universal rights that individuals enjoy “offline” must also be upheld and protected online. Latvia is committed to  protecting and promoting Internet freedom as an important element of freedom of expression for an open and democratic  society. To fulfil this commitment Latvia is willing to organize the World Press Freedom Day in 2015. We acknowledge  the important contribution of UNESCO in the implementation of the World Summit on the Information Society (WSIS)  plan of action. Latvia has been an active part of this process. Recently the global meeting of experts on the ethical  aspects of the information society was organized in Riga by UNESCO’s intergovernmental Information for All Programme  (IFAP), in cooperation with the Government of Latvia. It resulted in the adoption of the guidelines on ethics in the  information society.
59.4 In conclusion, I am proud to announce that the Fifth Asia-Europe Meeting of Ministers of Education (ASEMME)  will take place in Riga, Latvia in 2015. ASEMME serves as a valuable platform for exchanging best practices and sharing  know-how models and innovations in education policies. The Riga conference will allow us to focus on the coherence  and mutual reinforcement of the education for all goals and international development goals in the post-2015 agenda.  Changing the way we think and the way we act is an obligation towards future generations; therefore we must start now  for our sustainable future to come. We congratulate the reform efforts made by the Director-General, particularly taking  into consideration the difficult financial situation of the Organization. Latvia believes that only through true ownership of  UNESCO and its vision at the national level by using the potential of National Commissions can we succeed in  responding to and addressing global challenges. Thank you for your attention.  Mr Hao Ping resumes the Chair.
60. The President:   Thank you, Your Excellency. The next speaker is Her Excellency, Ms Jessica Alupo Epel, Minister of Education  and Sports of Uganda.
61.1 Ms Epel (Uganda):   Mr President of the General Conference, Madam Chair of the Executive Board, Madam Director-General of  UNESCO, Excellencies, Ministers and Ambassadors, distinguished delegates, ladies and gentlemen. Mr President, my  delegation congratulates you upon your election to chair the 37th session of the UNESCO General Conference. This  august assembly has trust and confidence in you to steer it towards consensus and agreement on the matters before us.  Our delegation thanks the Director-General, the Secretariat, the Executive Board and indeed the Member States for the  preparation of draft documents 37 C/4 and 37 C/5, and other documents for our conference.
61.2 Mr President, UNESCO faces many challenges today, particularly in light of the global economic hardships and  the reduction of its budget from $653 million to $507 million in the next biennium. This reduction comes at a time when  millions of children are unable to access quality education and, many people, particularly women, remain illiterate.  Furthermore, our cultures need to be brought to the forefront of development. The far-reaching effects of this reduction  will not only be felt at UNESCO, but by society at large. We will notice some of them as we grapple with attaining  sustainable development through education, the sciences, culture, communication and information and promotion of a  culture of human rights and peace in society.
61.3 Mr President, Uganda applauds the efforts of the Director-General to rationally allocate the meagre resources  towards achieving the goals of the Organization. We appreciate that Africa, gender equality, youth, least developed  countries (LDCs) and small island developing States (SIDS) remain major concerns of the Organization. We also support  the operational strategy for Africa and the gender action plan, as well as the youth strategy. We would like to see  concrete actions on these priorities and concerns.
61.4 Mr President, regarding programmes, Uganda would like to thank UNESCO for its support over the years, and in  particular this biennium, through the participation programme and the regular budget, as well as extrabudgetary funds.  We are particularly grateful for the Teacher Training Initiative for Sub-Saharan Africa (TTISSA), the Cap-EFA intervention,  the China Funds-in-Trust (CFIT) for teachers and the Japan Funds-in-Trust for the reconstruction of the Kasubi world  heritage site.
61.5 In the education programme, Uganda agrees with the commitment to the EFA targets for 2015 and beyond. The  EFA end-of-decade assessment was concluded in Uganda and it shows sustained progress on access and gender parity,  at least at the primary level, as well as improved literacy. Our flagship is the provision at all levels of quality and all- inclusive skills-oriented education that will propel us to peace and sustainable development. In this respect we are  implementing the “Skilling Uganda” programme, aiming at imparting skills for life and employability to all our youth.
61.6 In science, Mr President, we acknowledge the important role of science in fostering the capacity for innovation  technology and management of natural resources for sustainable development. We are engaging our schools in building  capacity for energy education and management. We are also studying geo-hazards vulnerability to help mitigate the  frequent earthquakes, floods and other hazards we have experienced frequently in the recent past.
61.7 Mr President, under Major Programme III, our focus is on strengthening our capacity to protect and promote  human rights and to manage social transformation. We collaborated with UNESCO in the production of the DVD  “Education for Human Rights … Young People Talking”. In the framework of the World Programme for Human Rights
151  Education, we have developed a national implementation strategy for human rights education in primary and post- primary education institutions. Under Major Programme IV, Mr President, we agree with the importance attached to the  promotion, preservation and development of culture and heritage and the pivotal role of culture and creativity as a means  of achieving sustainable development and peace. The attention given to the UNESCO conventions by strengthening  relations between them is well deserved. We, however, caution against losing the importance of creativity and arts  education as drivers for sustainable development and peace. These should remain high on our agenda.
61.8 The Ugandan delegation also welcomes the proposals of the Director-General for the promotion of museums  and strengthening their role in intercultural dialogue and sustainable development. We also support flagship projects like  the Slave Route project and the pedagogical use of UNESCO’s general and regional histories, in particular the General  History of Africa. Under Major Programme V, Mr President, we support the proposals of the Director-General on the  promotion of freedom of expression and information and fostering communication. We have trained journalists in peace  and conflict reporting and undertaken mapping of policies and legislation related to community media in Uganda. A study  on the new media platforms as providers of vital information for engaging the public in civic affairs has been conducted.
61.9 Mr President, the challenges that led to the establishment of UNESCO are still with us today. The world needs  peace today as it did over 60 years ago. This peace is built in the minds of people through their education, the sciences,  culture and communication. My delegation therefore urges all of us to give full support to our Organization to realize the  programmes we shall approve in document 37 C/5. Let me remind us all of the central role the National Commissions for  UNESCO play in supporting UNESCO in its endeavours at the country level. I urge the Director-General and her team to  tap into the resources and expertise available in many Commissions. This is even more important today as the  Organization faces resource constraints. Mr. President, as I conclude, may I wish all of you fruitful dialogue that will  identify and reaffirm UNESCO as a beacon of hope and an agent of sustainable development and peace. Thank you for  your kind attention.
62. The President:   Thank you, Your Excellency. The next speaker is His Excellency, Mr Illugi Gunnarsson, Minister of Education,  Sciences and Culture of Iceland. Your Excellency, please.
63.1 Mr Gunnarsson (Iceland):   Mr President of the General Conference, Madam Chair of the Executive Board, Madam Director-General, your  Excellencies, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the Icelandic delegation, I would like to express our congratulations to  you, Mr President, on your election. Your Excellencies, education is the key – the key to contributing to lasting peace, the  key to contributing to sustainable development and the key to the elimination of poverty. It is therefore my belief that  education is an important social right of which nobody should be deprived.
63.2 Our aims within UNESCO to spread knowledge and promote freedom of expression, enhance sustainable  development, to encourage acceptance of cultural diversity and achieve gender equality – just to mention some areas of  great concern – are all first and foremost addressed by better education. Yet the level of illiteracy in the twenty-first  century is still high and too many people, especially girls, are without access to education, let alone high-quality  education, despite UNESCO’s efforts to promote education for all. We must use such events as this General Conference  to seek inspiration to accelerate our work to tackle these grave concerns. To this effect, women’s empowerment is of key  importance to achieving this aim and priority should be given to education at a local as well as at a global level.
63.3 Mr President, UNESCO has a unique mandate for freedom of expression and media which Iceland strongly  supports. Not only as this is a fundamental human right which is vital for open societies, democracy and free market  economies, but it is also as a key ingredient in realizing our ambitions in education, science and culture. The potential  established by new media such as the Internet needs to be continued to be harnessed in the same spirit of freedom so  that it may best contribute to our goals. Also, UNESCO’s aim to become still more focused, interdisciplinary and forward- looking is highly relevant and praiseworthy. When we deal with education, science and culture, it is important to have a  wide perspective, to be flexible and to be able to look beyond traditional boundaries.
63.4 Which brings us to the importance of UNESCO’s significant roles – the promotion of linguistic diversity.  Language is at the heart of cultural diversity, being one of the strongest components of cultural identity. It remains the  most forceful vehicle of the world’s intangible heritage. In this regard our former President, Vigdís Finnbogadóttir, has  been, and continues to be, an active participant in UNESCO’s work, also in her capacities as a Goodwill Ambassador for  linguistic diversity. Furthermore the Vigdís International Language Centre for multilingualism and intercultural  understanding has been granted the status of a UNESCO category 2 institute. We are convinced that the institute will  contribute in an important way to UNESCO’s role and our common objectives in safeguarding the linguistic heritage, and  supporting linguistic diversity and multilingualism in education.
63.5 Excellencies, in 2015 a new United Nations development agenda will be adopted, an agenda that will build on  accomplishments already achieved, an agenda that sets out goals that have not been reached, and addresses hazards  which are a threat for future generations. In this respect, it is opportune to recall that our greatest wealth is people, not  the wealth preserved in the minerals of the earth, or that of the power of the rivers, or that of the abundant living marine  resources. It is the wealth constituted by people, with their knowledge and their experiences – in other words, the  constant journey of the human mind to question and explore and invent new solutions. We are proud to offer the world  our expertise where it can make some difference. Thousands of experts and officials from all parts of the world have  benefited from the activities of the four United Nations university training programmes in Iceland, since the first one was  established 35 years ago, especially in capacity building, in the management of natural and human resources, i.e. the  living marine resources, our land and geothermal energy and also in gender equality. Iceland will place emphasis on the  same areas in the post-2015 process.
63.6 Madam Director-General, the hopes for the future of the Organization are embedded in the strategic directions  adopted by the General Conference. It is necessary at present to define a common strategic vision for the Organization  for the next eight years and to strengthen UNESCO’s contribution to the promotion of human rights and lasting peace.  Iceland will continue to support UNESCO in its endeavours. On behalf of the Government of Iceland I would like to  express our gratitude to you Ms Bokova for your leadership of UNESCO during challenging times. We wish you all the  best in your future work. Ladies and gentlemen, to conclude, UNESCO’s role as a champion of peace, understanding  and tolerance is as ever urgent and vital. Education for all, gender equality and sustainability must be crosscutting  themes in all our work. Iceland is firmly committed to playing an active role in contributing to UNESCO’s role and thereby  working towards the common good. Thank you for your attention.
64. The President:   Thank you Your Excellency. Our next speaker is His Excellency, Mr Remus Pricopie, Minister of Education of  Romania. Your Excellency, please.
65.1 Mr Pricopie (Romania):   Mr President of the General Conference of UNESCO, Madam Chair of the Executive Board, Madam Director- General of UNESCO, Irina Bokova, distinguished Ministers and representatives of Member States, dear colleagues, in  the beginning of my statement on behalf of my Government I would like to say something that might be considered well  known and understood but we think that this should be stated as often as possible. UNESCO is the only international  institution that has a global mandate on education, culture and science, an institution that has done a great amount of  work on changing our lives. We all live today in a better world than the world of yesterday due to the mission, the vision  and the policies promoted for decades by UNESCO and Member States. From the beginning, my country has been fully  committed to supporting the work of UNESCO and we strongly believe in the present and future role of this Organization.  Now as the President of the UNESCO National Commission and as the Minister of Education in Romania, please allow  me to make a couple of remarks on culture, education and research.
65.2 Regarding culture, Romania is a strong advocate for the preservation and protection of cultural heritage, having  ratified all the conventions in this field. We are already members of several committees working under the provisions of  UNESCO’s cultural conventions. My country is also a candidate for the World Heritage Committee, for the elections  which will take place later this month. Romania has inscribed six cultural sites on the World Heritage List and one natural  site, the Danube Delta, a unique place in Europe. We consider that the Member States of the World Heritage Convention  should improve their cooperation and further increase their technical and financial support to world heritage. We also  believe in the necessity of developing a global strategy in order to establish a more balanced World Heritage List. The  final goal should be, as is stated in Article 7 of the Convention, “international protection of the world cultural and natural  heritage shall be understood to mean the establishment of a system of international cooperation and assistance  designed to support States Parties to the Convention in their efforts to conserve and identify that heritage”.
65.3 Now let me turn for a few minutes to education. Education is the mainstay of a knowledge society that gives rise  to a culture of peace, ensures perpetuity and promotes sustainable development. Great changes in the human condition  are possible through education. The intersectoral and interdisciplinary dimensions of education for sustainable  development, which have deep ties with technical and vocational training and education (TVET), are bound to engender  new ways of thinking, as well as new social and ethical attitudes. The post-2015 development agenda should address  social inequalities and the drivers of poverty, placing inequalities and human rights at the heart of the agenda, with a  focus on the most marginalized groups and support of programmes which respect and protect individual and collective  rights. Without intercultural and interreligious dialogue, good will and mutual understanding, no culture of peace can  emerge.
65.4 At present, after long and often controversial debates, Romania is undergoing a process of reestablishment of  the education system. We would like to create a strong and predictable system, open to all stakeholders, students,  teachers, parents, local communities, non-governmental organizations and economic agents. Romania needs an  education system that ensures a rapid adjustment to the demands of the labour market and encourages social cohesion  and personal fulfilment. The Romanian Ministry of Education’s short and medium-term strategies aim to include all  children in quality learning and addressing equity gaps at all education levels. Our main goal is therefore that all children  enter, progress and complete compulsory education at an appropriate age and that the learning outcomes of our children  offer them good prospects for continuing their instruction at a higher education level. The post-2015 agenda in education  is marking a shifting point, from a pure quantitative focus on access and participation in formal education to an increased  concern for the quality and relevance of education.
65.5 In the field of scientific research and technological development, Romania aims to promote the development of  bilateral and multilateral relations, the development of interdisciplinary research through intra- and inter-university and  non-academic partnerships, the adaptation of certain major research programmes to Romania’s strategic development  objectives, as well as the objectives included in the Europe 2020 Strategy, and the completion of the Extreme Light  Infrastructure (ELI) project, a project which involves the building of the most powerful laser in the world and which has  been given high priority by the Romanian Government. We are also proud to open a category 2 institute specializing in  physics.
65.6 Before concluding, I would like to add two different ideas. The first one is related to the work of UNESCO.  UNESCO has done much over the years, not just with the support of the Member States but also with the support of  different organizations that have supported the work and ideas of UNESCO. There are many such organizations and we  are proud of this, but please today let me underline and mention two of them: the World Federation of UNESCO Clubs,  Centres and Associations, which does a lot of work in the field of global ethics, and the International Association of
153  Universities, an organization which was in fact established by UNESCO many years ago with a global impact related to  higher education. In conclusion, let me congratulate the team at UNESCO for the work that they have done and also to  congratulate Irina Bokova on her nomination for a new mandate. Thank you very much.
66. The President:   Thank you Your Excellency. Our next speaker is His Excellency, Mr Nimrod Barkan, Ambassador of Israel.  Please, Your Excellency.
67.1 Mr Barkan (Israel):   Mr President, Excellencies, distinguished delegates, the Minister of Education of Israel, Rabbi Shai Piron, was  scheduled to be our head of delegation at this event, the 37th session of the UNESCO General Conference and address  the Member States. However, unavoidable commitments related to the future of education in Israel prevented him from  coming to Paris this week. Thus, the Minister has asked me to deliver the following message on his behalf.
67.2 The United Nations Educational, Scientific, and Cultural Organization was founded upon an ideal, an ideal that  building foundations of education, science, and culture, as well as freedom of thought and expression across all nations  would contribute to the global joint effort to prevent war and improve the well-being of all peoples, so that tragedies, such  as the two world wars, would never occur again. Israel cherishes those intrinsic values of UNESCO and is utterly  committed to their realization. Sixty-five years after its independence, Israel remains a vocal and active advocate for  UNESCO’s mandate, both domestically and internationally. Israel invests meaningful resources across its different  institutions to ensure sustainable and equitable growth in education, culture, science and communication, through  freedom of expression, for all its peoples. Additionally, Israel overtly and non-discriminately offers the international  community as a whole its knowledge and expertise in these domains. Fortunately, the long-term investments produce  evident results. ln education, Israel demonstrates both quantitative and qualitative achievements. The absolute number  of educational institutions in Israel has increased and equitably expanded from the core to the periphery. ln 2012,  approximately 300,000 students, more than 50% of individuals aged between 22 and 32, benefited from 67 academic  institutions across Israel. Three of those institutions were ranked in the top 100 universities in the world in 2012.  Moreover, in 2011 the number of lsraeli-Arab students who met university entry requirements stood at 36%, an increase  of 13% in comparison to 1996.
67.3 ln science, lsraeli-trained scientists enjoy a substantial international reputation and distinction. Over the years,  nine lsraelis have been awarded the Nobel Prize in the fields of science. The lsraeli scientific success is manifested also  in UNESCO – the L’Oréal-UNESCO Prize “For Women in Science” was awarded in 2008 to Professor Ada Yonath, who  later became a Nobel Prize laureate, and granted three fellowships to young lsraeli scientists in the last three years. lt is  time that lsrael’s achievements in science be formally recognized by UNESCO.
67.4 The achievements of Israel and its readiness to share knowledge are reflected through lsrael’s international  assistance programmes, as well as participation in UNESCO’s various intergovernmental committees and conventions.  Israel is a proud member of UNESCO’s Man and the Biosphere Programme, Management of Social Transformations  Programme, bioethics programme, and Information for All Programme as well as an active contracting party to the World  Heritage Convention with seven sites inscribed on the World Heritage List in just over 10 years. Regretfully, the  meaningful contribution of Israel and others to UNESCO declines as the ever-growing politicization of the Organization  by some increases. UNESCO has been subject to rather unfortunate events that impose substantial impediments to the  implementation of its mandate. ln the past three years, certain members have been consciously pushing to derail the  Organization from its right track for mere political gains, thereby overlooking UNESCO’s overarching values and reasons.  ln contrast, Israel and other like-minded countries strive to sustain the core significant work of UNESCO and ensure the  realization of its founding vision. The negative continuous attempts to exploit UNESCO could and should be avoided.  lnstead, the Member States ought to strengthen their collaboration to overcome the new challenges posed by the Arab  Spring. The eyes of the world are in tears at the sight of the gradual abolishment of human culture in the Middle East.  Some countries in the region deny basic human entitlements, such as freedom of expression and religion, gender  equality, and education in tolerance and respect. The perpetuated anarchy advances destruction, theft, and looting from  and of historical cultural sites and facilitates the trafficking of corporal human history. Despite these shocking human  atrocities and the many warnings about them in the Director-General’s statements, UNESCO’s Executive Board  consciously chooses silence over action regarding these developments while singling out only Israel as if nothing else  exists in the region.
67.5 I conclude with a call to all Member States to preserve the fragile founding ideal of UNESCO. We should adhere  to the worthy causes and valuable mandate of our world’s educational, scientific, and cultural organization. We therefore  ought to neglect attempts to achieve domestic and international political gains at the expense of UNESCO, and rather  focus on preserving invaluable human culture, constructive innovation, education and forms of communication for peace.  Thank you very much for your kind attention.
68. The President:   Thank you Your Excellency. Our next speaker is His Excellency, Mr Albert Esteve, Minister of Culture of Andorra.
69.1 M. Esteve (Andorre):   Monsieur le Président, Madame Ia Directrice générale, Mesdames et Messieurs les Ministres, Excellences,  Mesdames et Messieurs, je tiens à féliciter Monsieur le Président pour son élection à la présidence de la 37e session de  la Conférence générale. Monsieur le Président, je vous présente tous mes vœux de succès dans l'accomplissement de  votre haute mission.
69.2 Face aux nouveaux défis que nous devons affronter, l’UNESCO agit comme un laboratoire d'idées, un centre  d'échange de l'information, des connaissances et de l'innovation. II est important que l’UNESCO puisse accomplir sa  mission de manière efficace tout en tenant compte du contexte économique. Je souhaite reprendre les mots de la  Directrice générale, pour qui l’UNESCO est un phare dans les tempêtes, une référence internationale, une maison du  dialogue et du consensus.
69.3 L’UNESCO fait face actuellement à des difficultés financières importantes. Toutefois, j'adresse à la Directrice  générale ainsi qu'à son équipe mes félicitations pour leur gestion rigoureuse pendant ces deux dernières années.  L’Andorre a adopté sa Constitution en 1993. C’est cette même année qu’elle est devenue membre de l’UNESCO.  Depuis, nous n'avons eu de cesse de rappeler notre attachement aux valeurs du multilatéralisme et, tout  particulièrement, aux valeurs fondamentales de l’UNESCO dans le domaine de l’éducation, de la protection du  patrimoine et de la diversité culturelle.
69.4 Dans le domaine de l'éducation, je salue les efforts déployés par l’UNESCO dans le cadre du programme en  faveur de l’Éducation pour tous. Les deux prochaines années seront cruciales car nous devrons redoubler d'efforts afin  d’atteindre les objectifs inscrits dans ce programme. Nous devrons également évaluer concrètement les avancées  relatives aux Objectifs du Millénaire pour le développement adoptés en 2000 et, surtout, veiller à ce que l'éducation  garde une place de premier plan dans le programme de développement des Nations Unies pour l'après-2015.  L’éducation est un outil essentiel de transmission des valeurs de démocratie, de droits de l'homme et d'état de droit.  Nous sommes convaincus que c'est le respect et l'apprentissage de ces valeurs qui permettent de consolider une paix  durable.
69.5 Lors de la récente présidence andorrane du Comité des Ministres du Conseil de l'Europe, nous avons choisi  comme priorité l'éducation à la citoyenneté démocratique et aux droits de l'homme. Le thème de réflexion que nous  avons mis en avant est l'éducation comme outil de promotion des valeurs démocratiques, du respect des droits de  l'homme, de la tolérance et du dialogue interculturel. À ce sujet, il est tout à fait pertinent que la thématique de  l’UNESCO concernant l’éducation au développement durable, à la paix et à la citoyenneté mondiale soit inscrite dans les  objectifs stratégiques pour 2014-2017. Le Réseau du système des écoles associées de l’UNESCO (réSEAU) est un outil  essentiel pour transmettre aux jeunes Andorrans les idéaux de l’UNESCO. Cette année, les cinq écoles andorranes qui  font partie du réSEAU se sont mobilisées pour célébrer son 60e anniversaire. Force est de constater que leurs élèves  sont sensibilisés à la nécessité de la coopération internationale pour promouvoir la paix.
69.6 Quant à la question de la culture, l’Andorre attache une importance particulière à la préservation du patrimoine  et déploie de nombreux efforts pour préserver ses traditions. Cet après-midi, j'ai eu l'honneur de déposer l'instrument de  ratification de la Convention pour la sauvegarde du patrimoine culturel immatériel, en présence de Madame la Directrice  générale. Cette convention nous permettra de renforcer et poursuivre notre documentation sur l’inventaire de notre  patrimoine immatériel et de faciliter les échanges d'informations et d'expériences avec les États parties à la Convention.  Mon pays soutient les efforts consentis par l’UNESCO pour veiller à la mise en œuvre des conventions dans le domaine  de la culture. Nous avons le privilège d'avoir un paysage culturel, la Vallée du Madriu-Perafita-Claror, inscrit sur la Liste  du patrimoine mondial de l’UNESCO depuis presque dix ans. Si elle est le seul bien andorran inscrit sur cette liste, cette  vallée représente 10 % de notre territoire, et même 20 % si l’on y inclut la zone tampon. Grâce à l’adoption du Plan de  gestion, de nombreux efforts sont déployés afin de développer ce site exceptionnel.
69.7 Nous saluons le lancement, au Kazakhstan, de la Décennie internationale du rapprochement des cultures
(2013-2022), pour laquelle l’UNESCO a été désignée comme organisme chef de file par l'Assemblée générale de l’ONU.  En outre, la Principauté d’Andorre affirme avec force son attachement à la Convention sur la protection et la promotion  de la diversité des expressions culturelles à travers un projet d'échange international entre artistes appelé Art Camp. Je  vous informe que la Commission nationale andorrane pour l’UNESCO organise la prochaine édition d'Art Camp, « Des  couleurs pour la planète », du 14 au 24 juillet 2014 en Principauté d’Andorre. Ce projet allie les principes de dialogue, de  respect et de compréhension mutuelle, qui font partie de l’ADN de l’UNESCO.
69.8 Art Camp permettra aux jeunes artistes participants venus des cinq continents de dialoguer, d'échanger, de  partager leurs valeurs et, bien entendu, de créer. Nous nous réjouissons que Mme Hedva Ser, Artiste de l’UNESCO pour  la Paix, ait accepté d'être la marraine de cette prochaine édition et je voudrais remercier la Directrice générale de nous  avoir octroyé son patronage pour cette 4e édition d'Art Camp.
69.9 La liberté d'expression et la sécurité des journalistes sont des valeurs que nous devons défendre et promouvoir  au sein de notre Organisation. Nous déplorons le fait que, trop souvent, les journalistes ne peuvent pas exercer leur  métier en toute liberté. L'actualité récente nous encourage et nous oblige, même, à multiplier les actions concrètes dans  ce domaine. L'Andorre apporte chaque année une contribution volontaire au Programme international pour le  développement de la communication dans le but de soutenir les médias indépendants.
69.10 L’UNESCO est également engagée dans la promotion de l'accès universel à l’information. Nous sommes  heureux que l’Université d’Andorre et l’UNESCO aient décidé de renouveler pour quatre années supplémentaires  l’accord créant une « Chaire UNESCO sur les technologies de l'information : formation et développement solidaire. Le  cas des petits États » afin de contribuer à réduire la fracture numérique dont souffrent les États les plus défavorisés.
69.11 Pour conclure, je tiens à féliciter Mme Bokova pour sa réélection. Au cours de ces quatre dernières années, elle  a entrepris avec courage la réforme de notre Organisation. La Principauté d'Andorre lui accorde toute sa confiance pour  son nouveau mandat. Mon Gouvernement souhaite que lors de ce nouveau mandat, la Directrice générale continue de  mettre en œuvre ce processus car nous considérons qu'il donnera à notre Organisation une bien meilleure visibilité sur
155  la scène internationale et qu’il lui permettra de se concentrer sur ses domaines d’excellence, ce qui représente une  véritable valeur ajoutée. Je vous remercie de votre attention.
70. The President:   Thank you Your Excellency. Our next speaker is His Excellency, Mr Sokol Dervishaj, Deputy Minister of Foreign  Affairs of Albania.
71.1 Mr Dervishaj (Albania):   Mr President of the General Conference, Madam Director-General, Madam Chair of the Executive Board,  distinguished participants, allow me at the outset to congratulate Mr Hao Ping, Vice Minister of Education of China, for  his election as the President of the General Conference. On behalf of the Albanian Government, I would also like to  congratulate Irina Bokova for her nomination for a second term of office as Director-General of UNESCO. We truly  believe that she will demonstrate the necessary leadership to meet all the challenges that the Organization is facing.
71.2 I would like to start by focusing on three of Albania’s priorities in its collaboration with UNESCO. In the field of  culture, our key priority is the protection and promotion of our cultural heritage, both tangible and intangible. With two  sites inscribed on the World Heritage List, Albania is now focused on the preparation of the nomination file for the  inscription of the Albanian part of the Lake Ohrid region on the World Heritage List. Here I would like to express our most  sincere gratitude to the World Heritage Centre for their continuous support, and emphasize as a successful example and  a success story, the excellent cooperation between Albania, the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia and the Centre  in the framework of the European Union-funded project “Towards strengthened governance of the shared transboundary  natural and cultural heritage of the Lake Ohrid region”.
71.3 We commend the work of the Section for Intangible Heritage for its excellent work in the successful  implementation of the Convention. As a member of the Committee for the Safeguarding of the Intangible Cultural  Heritage, Albania has actively worked towards making the 2003 Convention on the intangible cultural heritage an  effective tool at the national level. We believe that the implementation of the cultural conventions should remain a  programmatic priority of the Organization. The challenge in the future will be to preserve their relevance, sustainability  and credibility.
71.4 In the field of science, we are implementing, in cooperation with the UNESCO regional bureau in Venice, a  number of important projects funded by the European Union. In cooperation with the former Yuogoslav Republic of  Macedonia, we have recently presented a nomination file for a transboundary biosphere reserve Prespa-Ohrid  Watershed, and we are in the process of preparing a new file in cooperation with Montenegro. Albania is committed to  strengthening its cooperation with UNESCO in the field of natural sciences, towards achieving a sustainable and  environmentally friendly development.
71.5 Albania is also very committed to the promotion and the protection of human rights. We strongly support the  human rights-based approach applied by the Organization in its strategy and its mission of promoting peace and  development. We are concerned about the worldwide increase in attacks and violence against journalists, and fully  support the United Nations Plan of Action on the Safety of Journalists and the Issue of Impunity, in which UNESCO and  the International Programme for the Development of Communication (IPDC) have played a leading role. As a member of  the IPDC, Albania has been active in advancing the cause of freedom of expression and freedom of the press, a non- negotiable principle of the United Nations.
71.6 Distinguished delegates, experience has shown that what cannot be achieved through politics can sometimes  be achieved through culture. In this spirit, Albania is playing an important role building bridges of cooperation in the  region, through culture, communication and tolerance. Respect for cultural diversity should be at the heart of our regional  cooperation. Thus we believe that respecting the multi-ethnic dimension of cultural heritage is an essential condition for  the enhancement of peace and stability in our region. We welcome UNESCO’s work in rehabilitating and protecting  cultural heritage in Kosovo and we invite all stakeholders to join in this endeavour to protect a precious legacy that  belongs to humanity and also as an important vector of dialogue and reconciliation.
71.7 With regard to UNESCO’s reform, we congratulate the Members of the Executive Board for having assumed  their responsibilities by determining their programmatic priorities in the context of the financial crisis. We also express our  full support for the important reform that the Director-General has undertaken. We need to keep UNESCO a powerful  efficient tool in order to achieve our objectives. Albania also supports the results-based budgeting approach that the  Organization is adopting and expects UNESCO to report on the real impact of programmes and activities. We are fully  aware that being elected to the Executive Board bears a great responsibility. Throughout our future term of office we will  be committed to finding a reasonable balance between our national interest and the common interest of the Organization.  The Albanian Government is determined to play its part in ensuring the continued success of UNESCO; keeping in mind  that peace is not just UNESCO’s mission but it is the shared responsibility of all our nations. Thank you very much again.
72. The President:   Thank you Your Excellency. Our next speaker is His Excellency, Mr Lytou Bouapao, Vice Minister of Education  and Sports of the Lao People’s Democratic Republic.
73.1 M. Bouapao (République démocratique populaire lao) :   Monsieur le Président de la Conférence générale, Madame la Présidente du Conseil exécutif, Madame la  Directrice générale, Excellences, Mesdames et Messieurs, au nom de la délégation de la République démocratique  populaire lao et en mon nom personnel, permettez-moi tout d’abord d’adresser à Monsieur le Président mes  chaleureuses félicitations pour son élection à la Présidence de la 37e session de la Conférence générale de l’UNESCO.
73.2 Mes félicitations vont également à Madame la Présidente du Conseil exécutif et à Madame la Directrice  générale, ainsi qu’à tous les membres du Groupe préparatoire ad hoc de la 37e session de la Conférence générale, pour  les efforts qu’ils ont consacrés à la préparation du Projet de programme, en utilisant une nouvelle technique de  programmation conforme aux résolutions 36 C/1 et 36 C/112. Notre délégation note que la Stratégie à moyen terme pour  huit ans, le Projet de programme et de budget quadriennal et le budget prévisionnel biennal correspondent aux besoins  réels de notre pays. La délégation laotienne tient également à vous féliciter pour les efforts que vous avez consacrés à la  mobilisation de fonds en vue de la mise en œuvre efficace des projets approuvés par l’UNESCO.
73.3 Monsieur le Président, depuis la tenue de 36e session de la Conférence générale de l’UNESCO, l’instabilité et la  complexité de la situation politique et économique mondiale s’aggravent. On constate autant de possibilités offertes que  de défis inquiétants pour ce qui est de la restauration d’une paix durable, de la stabilité politique et de la coopération aux  fins de la réalisation des divers projets planifiés par la Conférence générale à sa dernière session, et plus  particulièrement de l’accomplissement des Objectifs du Millénaire pour le développement et des objectifs de l’Éducation  pour tous, prioritaires à l’échelle mondiale pour le XXIe siècle. Il est primordial de surmonter le cercle vicieux de la  pauvreté et du sous-développement dans le monde. À cela, il faut ajouter d’autres problèmes de portée mondiale tels  que le changement climatique, les catastrophes naturelles ou la crise économique et financière, qui constituent un frein  au développement économique et social.
73.4 Comme beaucoup d’autres pays, la République démocratique populaire lao a subi des catastrophes naturelles.  Au cours de l’année scolaire 2012/13, des inondations ont détruit 230 bâtiments scolaires ainsi qu’un nombre important  de dortoirs et de matériels pédagogiques. Ayant surmonté ces difficultés avec l’appui et l’aide de pays amis et  d’organisations internationales et de partenariats de développement, parmi lesquels le Siège de l’UNESCO à Paris et  son Bureau régional pour l’éducation en Asie et dans le Pacifique, la République démocratique populaire lao a pu mettre  en œuvre le septième plan quinquennal pour le développement de l’éducation et du sport, la stratégie de la réforme du  système educatif – qui vise à promouvoir la qualité de l’enseignement et de l’apprentissage – ainsi que le plan national  relatif à l’Education pour tous et le projet Cap-EPT, appuyés par l’UNESCO, dans le but d’atteindre les Objectifs du  Millénaire pour le développement en 2015.
73.5 Nous avons obtenu les résultats suivants. Le taux de scolarisation des enfants de 3 à 5 ans est de 33 % pour  les filles et 33 % pour les garçons. Le taux net de scolarisation dans le primaire est de 96 % pour les filles et de 97 %  pour les garçons, et le taux de persévérance scolaire y est de 74 % pour les filles et de 72 % pour les garçons. Le taux  d’alphabétisation des adultes (de 15 à 49 ans) est de 56 % pour les femmes et les jeunes filles, et de 71 % pour les  hommes. Ces résultats obtenus sont les fruits du soutien et de l’aide que nous avons reçus, de la part d’entités  nationales et internationales, par exemple de partenaires de développement tels que l’UNESCO, plusieurs autres  organisations internationales et des ONG. Au nom du Gouvernement lao, je saisis cette occasion pour leur adresser ma  gratitude et mes remerciements sincères pour cette fructueuse coopération.
73.6 Quoi qu’il en soit, les résultats obtenus restent bien loin des objectifs à atteindre en 2015, et les obstacles à  surmonter sont multiples. Le Gouvernement lao va consentir les efforts nécessaires pour rendre l’accès à l’éducation  plus équitable pour les habitants des zones isolées, notamment pour les minorités ethniques ; assurer la qualité de  l’enseignement et de l’apprentissage ; encourager la population locale à s’impliquer dans la gestion des écoles, au  niveau des villages, des districts et des provinces, en application de la politique selon laquelle la province est l’unité  stratégique, le district l’unité motrice et le village l’unité accélératrice du développement. Les objectifs sont les suivants :  faire en sorte que les enseignants soient en nombre suffisant ; développer les cantines scolaires ; supprimer les frais  d’inscription et les frais de scolarité pour les élèves du cycle élémentaire ; analyser l’origine des taux élevés de  redoublement et d’abandon scolaire et trouver des moyens d’y remédier.
73.7 Monsieur le Président, le Gouvernement lao a apporté une attention particulière à la sauvegarde et à la  protection des deux sites du patrimoine mondial présents sur le territoire et se conforme strictement aux  recommandations figurant dans le rapport du Comité du patrimoine mondial. Les dossiers de proposition d’inscription de  la Plaine des Jarres et du site de Hin Nam No sur la Liste du patrimoine mondial de l’UNESCO sont en cours  d’élaboration par le Gouvernement lao. Je vous remercie de votre attention.
74. The President:   Thank you Your Excellency. Our next speaker is His Excellency, Mr Petr Solsky, Vice Minister of Interior of the  Czech Republic.
75.1 Mr Solsky (Czech Republic):   Mr President of the General Conference, Excellencies, ladies and gentlemen, at the outset I would like to  congratulate you, Mr President on your election and wish you every success in your future work and in this important  post. Mr President, the Czech Republic supports the statement to be delivered on behalf of the European Union. We are  meeting now at a crucial point in time. Our session will discuss and adopt the Medium-Term Strategy and the  Programme and Budget, documents that will shape UNESCO’s activities for the next eight years. Also, another important  task before us is to appoint a new Director-General for the next four years. The Czech Republic welcomes the Executive  Board’s decision to nominate to this post the current Director-General, Ms Irina Bokova.
75.2 UNESCO will have to cope with some major budget cuts meaning less money available for the implementation  of the adopted programme. Let me express our wish that these problems be solved as soon as possible, in order to  enable this Organization to focus fully on its broad goals. We indeed support the “crisis” programme based on the  amount of $507 million available for the period 2014-2015 and congratulate the Director-General and her team for its  preparation. The Czech Republic fully supports the two global priorities – Africa and gender equality.
75.3 We regard UNESCO’s role for the promotion of democratic principles, human rights and fundamental freedoms  in the contemporary world to be more pertinent than ever. Thanks to its broad mandate, our Organization is called on to  play an irreplaceable role within the whole United Nations system. We are convinced that, despite its difficult current  financial situation, UNESCO should strive to further its cooperation with other United Nations bodies, programmes and  funds. The Czech Republic welcomes the Medium-Term Strategy emphasis on the importance of conflict prevention. In  that vein, we can even picture UNESCO being more directly involved in the work of the United Nations peacebuilding  commission, promoting broader incorporation of education and culture to its strategic frameworks.
75.4 Protection and promotion of unrestricted and universal access to information and knowledge, press freedom and  media development is another UNESCO task that we would like to underline, together with its tireless care for the safety  of journalists. The Organization has unique responsibility, tools and experience in this field, which need to be cherished.  We are aware of the existing digital gap in today’s world and commend all UNESCO’s efforts to bridge it. My country has  repeatedly carried out, with UNESCO’s support, basic PC and Internet courses, successfully passed today by more than
600 students from Kenya, Uganda and Zambia, more than two thirds of participants being girls and young women.
75.5 Mr President, we are strongly convinced that not only education but also culture should be incorporated into the  post-2015 goals. It is deemed proven that an individual’s level of education is directly linked to their relations to other  people and to their tolerance towards various human differences. It is thus self-explanatory why education must remain  one of the pillars of UNESCO’s future activities.
75.6 UNESCO should, through its initiatives, assist its Member States in developing efficient education systems  accessible for all. In the current period of development, characterized by the rapid development of modern technologies,  we support UNESCO’s efforts to promote lifelong learning, adult education and professional and vocational training. The  Czech Republic is ready, also in the future, to offer, through UNESCO, fellowships of complete university studies for  students from developing countries.
75.7 UNESCO’s unique task in the field of culture is of the utmost importance, notwithstanding the limited resources.  It is our duty, Mr President, to preserve and promote cultural diversity, intercultural understanding, dialogue and creativity.  An important role in these efforts could be played by the Creative Cities Network. UNESCO has an excellent record in  safeguarding both the tangible and intangible cultural heritage. We fully support its recent efforts to help protect the  endangered cultural heritage in Mali, Egypt and the Syrian Arab Republic. We should prevent limiting the role of  UNESCO in the cultural sector merely to that of a secretariat of adopted conventions. UNESCO should not resign from  its other important global tasks. We welcome that the future programme preserves UNESCO’s role as standard-setter.  The Czech Republic supports the idea of starting to draft an instrument on the protection and promotion of museums and  collections and another instrument on access to documentary heritage.
75.8 We also highly appreciate UNESCO’s specialized programmes, for example the Man and the Biosphere  Programme that has played a pioneering role in its field. We urge this Organization to continue with the formalization of  the Global Geoparks Network through the proposed geoparks initiative, which we consider to be a unique opportunity. In  conclusion, Mr President, it will be up to all of us, the Member States, the Secretariat and stakeholders to make sure that  our Organization lives up to the expectations of the global community. The Czech Republic is indeed ready to do its  utmost in this noble task. Thank you for your attention.
76. The President:   Thank you Your Excellency. Our next speaker is Her Excellency, Ms Irena Radović, Ambassador, Permanent  Delegate of Montenegro to UNESCO.
77.1 Ms Radović (Montenegro):   Distinguished President of the General Conference, Chair of the Executive Board, Director-General,  distinguished delegates, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the Montenegrin delegation allow me first and foremost to  extend congratulations on your election, Mr President of the General Conference of UNESCO. It is my pleasure to  address the 37th session of the General Conference. Much has been accomplished over the past two years, reflected in  the increased visibility of UNESCO and its presence at national, regional and global levels. Montenegro staunchly  supports the undertakings of UNESCO, especially in the era of current challenges. The role of UNESCO, in view of the  post-2015 development agenda aimed at the creation of a long-term sustainable strategy with the results-based  budgeting of the Organization, remains crucial. In this spirit, Montenegro will continue to strengthen its partnership with  UNESCO, in line with its long-term programme and recommendations of the Organization in cooperation with the  Montenegrin National Commission for UNESCO, the pertinent ministries, institutions, experts and civil society.
77.2 Mr President, fully committed to UNESCO’s standards, Montenegro continues to fulfil its obligation in line with  the relevant conventions. We have built up successful cooperation with the World Heritage Centre and, in this framework,  undertake continuous activities regarding UNESCO-protected areas in Montenegro. In view of marking the 40th  anniversary of the World Heritage Convention, we have organized the regional meeting “The Role of Local Communities”  in Kotor, and the festival “Touch Durmitor, Be a Part of the World Heritage” with the support of the Ministry of Culture and  the Ministry of Sustainable Development and Tourism of Montenegro, together with the UNESCO Regional Office in  Venice and partners.
77.3 We remain particularly active in view of the implementation of the Convention on the Protection and Promotion  of the Diversity of Cultural Expressions. We are pleased that via the International Fund for Cultural Diversity (IFCD), the  project of the Montenegrin Association of Visual Artists has been approved, and that our Ministry of Culture could donate  funds to strengthen the work of the IFCD. For Montenegro, UNESCO remains a major partner in shaping and  implementing activities in its comprehensive fields of competence. We are pleased that for the fifth time in a row
158  UNESCO has sponsored the International Festival “Kotor Art” which brought together important regional and  international players. In the framework of the Participation Programme 2012-2013, three Montenegrin projects have been  approved, which adds to enhancing the visibility of UNESCO at the national level.
77.4 We are delighted that two of our proposals have been introduced to the list of anniversaries with whose  celebration UNESCO is associated for the period 2014-2015: the 450th anniversary of the death of Blessed Hosana of  Kotor and the 100th anniversary of the birth of the writer Mihailo Lalić,. On this occasion, I should like to express special  gratitude to Serbia, Croatia and Bosnia and Herzegovina for their support in view of these proposals. The celebration of  several UNESCO international days has been organized, including International Jazz Day, International Day of Peace,  World Teachers’ Day and World Philosophy Day. The Ministry of Science also organized the promotion of the L’Oreál- UNESCO programme for “Women in Science” and this year, for the very first time, the celebration of World Science Day  will take place in Montenegro, with the support of the UNESCO Venice Office.
77.5 Mr President, one of the key Montenegrin foreign policy priorities remains the strengthening of regional  cooperation to which we also contribute via activities within the UNESCO framework. One such example is the serial  nomination of medieval tombstones for their inscription to the World Heritage List – a joint initiative between Bosnia and  Herzegovina, Croatia, Montenegro and Serbia. The nomination of the Venetian forts of defence in the eastern  Mediterranean, dating from the fifteenth to seventeenth centuries, has also been presented together with Italy, Croatia  and Greece. Another very important regional project that we care about is the Dinaric Karst Project. We are using this  opportunity to stress that continuously strengthened cooperation with the regional UNESCO office in Venice gave further  impetus to the cooperation of National Commissions in the region of south-east Europe, notably to important and  successful projects such as the renewal of the ex-Yugoslav pavilion in the Auschwitz-Birkenau Museum and the  exhibition “Imagining the Balkans”.
77.6 Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in the context of the development agenda for the post-2015 period, it  should be stressed that over the past decade the Millennium Development Goals generated global efforts to accelerate  development, especially in the area of poverty reduction, gender equality and environmental sustainability. A challenge to  create an ambitious and action-oriented development framework for the post-2015 period is in front of us. It requires a  fresh vision, transformation and new global partnerships. To this end, it is my pleasure to announce that in cooperation  with the United Nations system in Montenegro, the joint centre for sustainable development will begin its work next year,  aiming to intensify efforts in the domain of sustainable development intertwined with UNESCO’s noble vision and goals.  Montenegro’s willingness to make continuous efforts to reach these goals and objectives is unquestionable. Together  with UNESCO, we shall persevere with the intention to create a better starting point for the implementation of the post-
2015 development agenda. Thank you for your attention.
78. The President:   Thank you. Our next speaker is His Excellency, Mr Karunaratne Hangawatte, Ambassador, Permanent Delegate  of Sri Lanka to UNESCO. Please, Your Excellency.
79.1 Mr Hangawatte (Sri Lanka):   Excellency Mr President, the representative of the Director-General, Chair of the Executive Board, Excellencies,  ladies and gentlemen, Sri Lanka welcomes His Excellency Mr Hao Ping. We wish you every success, Excellency, and  assure you of our fullest cooperation. Our sincere appreciation and warmest felicitations go to the outgoing President,  Her Excellency Ms Katalin Bogyay. We also wish Her Excellency, the Chair of the Executive Board our very best. Sri  Lanka sincerely appreciates the effort and commitment with which Ms Irina Bokova has steered this Organization over  the last four years. We heartily wish her success in the coming years.
79.2 Excellencies, ladies and gentlemen, Sri Lanka’s heritage has been influenced by cultural and religious doctrines  that value intellectual development, compassion and caring for others. Thus, former combatants who took up arms  against the State and her people are reintegrated into society instead of being sanctioned with punitive measures. They  are today being educated and also employed in the public and private sectors. Since liberating the people of the northern  and eastern provinces in 2009, the Government of Sri Lanka has spent over $6 billion and is still diverting a major portion  of its development budget for the rehabilitation and improvement of the lives of the people and infrastructure in those  regions.
79.3 As an emerging economy with a GDP of around 7%, Sri Lanka is today becoming a leading partner on the  international stage, having surpassed the mid-term target of the Millennium Development Goals (MDGs). The country  ranks 92nd out of 187 countries in the Human Development Index, higher than the world HDI. Since 2009, Sri Lanka has  undertaken massive infrastructure development with peace prevailing throughout the country. Ninety-seven per cent of  the country is now electrified with the 100% target to be achieved in 2014. Since 2009, personal income has tripled to  $3,000 and is projected to quadruple to $4,000 per person in 2014. Sri Lanka is on the path to being once again a  multifaceted hub in the Asian region.
79.4 At UNESCO, Sri Lanka has endeavoured to promote religious understanding and intercultural dialogue through  the initiative of an ambassadorial delegation to Sri Lanka and the celebration of Vesak under a theme of social inclusion  and a culture of peace and non-violence. We believe that education is the means to recognize our own identities and  cultures, and build peace through awareness and respect for others. By providing free education, from primary to tertiary,  Sri Lanka enjoys a literacy rate of 98%, a clear example of education for all (EFA). The key dividend is a drastic  reduction in unemployment to 4.4 %. The public to private sector employment ratio stands at 1:3. The Mahinda  Chinthana Vision for the Future emphasizes the development of human capital and envisions reforming the education  system to make Sri Lanka a knowledge hub. The concept of child-friendly schools has been introduced to make the  transition from home or pre-school to school smoother and easier with a view to the balanced development of the child.
159  The target is to create 5,000 such schools around the island by 2015. This programme is targeted to develop 1,000  secondary schools equipped with state-of-the-art science, IT and language labs and the necessary facilities to provide  equal opportunities to all for quality education. In line with education for the world of work, we have introduced a  technological stream to the secondary curriculum to address skills development and vocational training. His Excellency  President Mahinda Rajapaksa has called upon the United Nations to include an international skills day to mainstream  youth in the post-2015 development agenda.
79.5 The role of young people and their valuable contributions to society will be highlighted this month during the  Commonwealth Youth Forum in Sri Lanka, and at the United Nations World Conference on Youth in Sri Lanka in May
2014. Based on a feasibility study by UNESCO in 2010, Sri Lanka’s first-ever nanotechnology and science park and  nanotechnology centre of excellence were inaugurated last month, marking a milestone in the national strategy of taking  Sri Lanka towards upper middle income country status. Sri Lanka has reached out to youth, especially rural youth,  through a development policy framework by enriching them with trilingual and IT skills and access to information through  an integrated network of 720 tele-centres. Our ICT literacy rate has climbed from a mere 4% to over 40% and is targeted  to reach 75% by 2015.
79.6 Excellencies, ladies and gentlemen, in the words of the great Asian sage Confucius “Our greatest glory is not in  never falling, but in rising every time we fall”. Our commitment to peace, reconciliation and development through  education remains steadfast, unwavering and resolute. On behalf of the Government and people of Sri Lanka, I wish the
37th session of the UNESCO General Conference every success. May the Noble Triple Gem bless you.
80. The President:   Thank you Your Excellency. Our last but certainly not least speaker is His Excellency, Mr George Mina,  Ambassador, Permanent Delegate of Australia to UNESCO.
81.1 Mr Mina (Australia):   Thank you very much, Mr President. I know this room has never been fuller of enthusiasm than it is today. I  know that because you have got to be pretty keen to stay this late, so thank you all and thank you to the interpreters, I  know it has been a marathon effort. As a result, I have discussed with the Secretariat and they have said that I could  have a maximum of 25 minutes, so I promise I will finish before 9.30 p.m. Distinguished delegates, since we last were  here together in Paris at the General Conference, UNESCO has experienced a significant reduction in its resourcing.  This moment in UNESCO’s history therefore represents both a huge challenge and an unparalleled opportunity. It is an  opportunity for reform, to ensure the Organization is utilizing its resources to best effect. It is an opportunity for focus, to  be clear about where it can best add value. UNESCO cannot, and should not, try to be everything to everyone. It is an  opportunity to communicate with clarity the Organization’s objectives and activities, to better connect with the people it  serves.
81.2 In adopting the programme for the next four years, the General Conference must ensure that it does not miss  this window of opportunity to rationalize the Organization's goals. UNESCO can realise its ideals with clear objectives not  only being set, but also measured and achieved. The reforms need to engender a more relevant, responsive and  effective organization, and help build UNESCO's credibility as a body which can make a real difference. Getting the  reforms right will mean more resources where they are needed most. There needs to be a sharper focus on programme  delivery and core priorities. We must safeguard UNESCO’s leadership in those areas where the Organization can make  a unique contribution. Areas like education, oceans, heritage, Memory of the World, anti-doping in sport, and freedom of  expression. It is in these areas that UNESCO’s contribution can make the most significant impact, and where its impact  is most widely appreciated.
81.3 Australia will continue to work with UNESCO to achieve universal access to quality education for both girls and  boys, not only as a champion country under the United Nations Secretary-General’s Global Education First Initiative but  also through continued support for UNESCO’s education for all goals, where our assistance extends from basic  education to technical and vocational skills building. Australia remains committed to building the credibility of the World  Heritage Convention to ensure the preservation of our natural and cultural heritage for future generations. We are  particularly proud of our record in supporting regional island States to engage with that Convention. Our technical  assistance and funding has contributed to increasing the number of World Heritage sites in the Pacific from one to six as  well as to the establishment of the Pacific heritage hub in Suva, Fiji, earlier this year. We expect the hub will further the  reach of the World Heritage Convention in the region and take Pacific heritage onto the global stage. The challenges of  small island developing States (SIDS) should remain a priority. Small, isolated countries, with their rich and distinctive  cultures developed over thousands of years, must be given the means to maintain their identities and values. Through  capacity building, UNESCO can make a real difference: boosting basic literacy and numeracy in each of these countries,  fostering their economic development through vocational education and training programmes, and assisting their youth.  In our own region, the needs of the Pacific island States are great and their voices must be heard. Australia strongly  supports the nomination of Vanuatu for UNESCO’s Executive Board.
81.4 Mr President, as I said earlier, the budget shock UNESCO has experienced presents an unparalleled  opportunity to focus its priorities, improve efficiency and better communicate its achievements. Australia fully supports  the Director-General’s efforts in this regard. Ms Bokova has started us down the road to restructuring reform, and my  delegation believes that there is a great deal more that must be achieved in this area. The starting point is that the  Organization needs to be realistic about the resources required to implement the programmes contained in the budget  that the General Conference is about to adopt. The decisions required to reconcile UNESCO’s resources with its  membership’s aspirations will be difficult, and they will not please everyone, but they must be faced head-on if UNESCO
160  is to succeed and meet its laudable goals. As a founding member of UNESCO, committed to the ideals of the  Organization, Australia stands ready to assist in this all-important task. Thank you.
82. The President:    Thank you Your Excellency. Ladies and gentlemen, I wish to thank you all for your wisdom in speaking, and  patience in listening. The plenary will convene again tomorrow morning at 10 a.m. May I kindly remind you that the  second meeting of the General Committee will be convened at 9 a.m. tomorrow morning. I wish you a very good evening.  This meeting is now adjourned.  The meeting rose at 8.20 p.m.  La séance est levée à 20 h 20  Se levanta la sesión a las 20.20  Заседание закрывается в 20.20  الظهر بعد ٨,٢٠اسلسة يف الساعة  رفعت   会议于 20  时 20 分结束