1. Mme Dubois (France) (Maître de cérémonie) :   Excellences, Mesdames et Messieurs, bienvenue à cette cérémonie d’installation de la Directrice générale. Mon  nom est Dorine Dubois ; je suis membre du Secrétariat de l’UNESCO et travaille au Secteur de la culture. Nous allons  commencer. Merci de prendre place et de bien vouloir éteindre vos téléphones portables. Cette cérémonie vous sera  présentée en français et en anglais, avec une interprétation simultanée en six langues. Je donne la parole au Président  de la Conférence générale, qui va ouvrir la séance.
(2.1) The President (translation from the Chinese):   Good afternoon ladies and gentlemen, I declare open the fourteenth plenary meeting of the General Conference,  which will be devoted to the investiture of the Director-General of UNESCO, Ms Irina Bokova. Madam Chair of the Executive  Board, honourable ministers, dear ambassadors, guests, ladies and gentlemen, you, dear Irina, were elected as Director- General of UNESCO for the first time in 2009, the year in which I was appointed Chairman of the National Commission of the  People’s Republic of China for UNESCO. During the four years since then, the cooperation between China and UNESCO,  both in the Executive Board and in China, has been a pleasant one. You have been to China to attend several major  conferences organised jointly by China and UNESCO and, as a result, we have met with each other in China almost every  year. This year has seen me elected as President of the General Conference, and you re-elected as Director-General with a  great number of votes, offering an opportunity for even closer cooperation between us. I am looking forward to working with  you in the future. Today is not only a moment to look ahead to your next term and the post-2015 development agenda, but  also an occasion to look back on all the contributions that you, along with the Secretariat, have made to the work of the  Organization, as well as the achievements accomplished during the past four years. UNESCO was faced with immense  financial restrictions just two years after your election as Director-General of the Organization. Despite all the difficulties and  risks, you managed to pursue its great mission to promote education, the sciences, culture and communication and  information by introducing reforms and overcoming adversities. This is essential for the achievement of global sustainable  development. During the past four years, you have overseen a time in which UNESCO has been at the forefront of education  in developing countries, supporting teacher training and education for all programmes in some of the most underprivileged  areas of the world. The Organization has worked tirelessly to protect world cultural heritage and to ensure that the cost of  development will not be measured in the loss of culture, history and diversity. Dear Irina, I would like to express my admiration  for the enormous efforts and contributions you have made. I am delighted that you will continue as Director-General and that  we will have an experienced hand to guide us in meeting new challenges and fulfilling new goals over the next four years.  (The President continues in English)
2.2 Ladies and gentlemen, now I would like to invite the Director-General to join me at the lectern to take her oath.
3. La Directrice générale :   Je prends l’engagement solennel d’exercer en toute loyauté, discrétion et conscience les fonctions qui m’ont été  confiées en qualité de Directrice générale de l’Organisation des Nations Unies pour l’éducation, la science et la culture,  de m’acquitter de ces fonctions et de réguler ma conduite en ayant exclusivement en vue les intérêts de l’Organisation,  sans solliciter ni accepter d’instructions d’aucun gouvernement ou autre autorité extérieure à l’Organisation en ce qui  concerne l’accomplissement de mes devoirs.
4. The President:   And now Your Excellencies I would like to invite the Chair of the Executive Board, Ms Cummins, to say a few  words of congratulations.
5.1 Ms Cummins (Chair of the Executive Board):   Mr President of the General Conference, Madam Director-General, colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf  of the Executive Board and on my own behalf it is indeed a pleasure and privilege to convey to you, my dear Irina, our  heartfelt congratulations to you on your re-election to the post of Director-General of this august House. Over the past
345  four years you have brought to our beloved Organization an inspirational vision of a new humanism for the twenty-first  century, a vision that has clearly resonated with the Member States, a vision echoed by world leaders during the  Leaders’ Forum of this General Conference. Over the past four years, you have been UNESCO’s champion in  reinvigorating the Organization’s role within the post-2015 development agenda, especially in education, culture and the  sciences. In this, I am grateful, as are many Member States, for your leadership and determination in bringing the  importance of culture to the global development discourse.
5.2 Madam Director-General, your passionate advocacy for culture as a catalyst for sustainable development will, I  feel sure, eventually be recognized as an important legacy for the United Nations, a legacy of enabling the international  community to finally address a much-neglected gap in humanity’s push for progress under the rightful stewardship of  UNESCO. This is very much at the core of your message, which reflects the words of the renowned Jamaican cultural  scholar and former Member of the Executive Board, the late Professor Rex Nettleford, when he stated that “it is the full  grasp of the creative diversity of all of humankind that provides the source for tolerance, generosity of spirit, forgiveness,  respect for the other, that the new millennium will require if it is to house the brave new world with human beings as the  centre of the cosmos. It is a source as well of the patience which is needed for the human-scale development which all  the grand objectives of the United Nations declaration envision.” Over the past four years, you have also led this  Organization in much-needed reform, in particular you have been a pillar of strength and stability amidst the turbulence  experienced by UNESCO these last two years. You have shown your mettle in taking critical decisions to steer the  Secretariat through an unprecedented financial crisis while preserving its capacity to deliver in key areas of its  programme.
5.3 Under your inspired and inspiring leadership you have created an environment in which the Organization can  flourish. You have stood firm to ensure that its relevance is in no way diminished. Dear Irina, it is clear from your  convincing victory during the nomination process at the Executive Board and the overwhelming support expressed during  this General Conference, that Member States are highly appreciative of the uncommon and impressive combination of  visionary leadership and pragmatic management at the head of the Secretariat. This election has been a true vote of  confidence in your ability to execute the mandate of this august House for the next four years. We all know that yours will  not be an easy task.
5.4 As the Organization continues to grapple with a serious budgetary shortfall, Member States are relying on you to  pursue UNESCO’s mission in realizing, among other things, the right to education, in leveraging the sciences as well as  in protecting cultural diversity, and biodiversity for sustainable development, in protecting cultural heritage, in advancing  the interest of least developing countries and small island developing States, or should I say, big ocean sustainable  States, or both. And in responding to and reflecting the hopes of youth, and in particular girls, this is a daunting agenda.  However, you are not alone in this endeavour. There is too much at stake. UNESCO embodies the aspirations of  Member States. As you embark on a second term of office leading the Secretariat you can rely on us, through the  governing bodies of the Organization, to support you in fulfilling your duties. In the words of the Saint Lucian Nobel  laureate Derek Walcott “the time will come when, with elation, you will greet yourself arriving at your own door, in your  own mirror and each will smile at the other’s welcome.” And let me add further in the words of the famous American  fighter for justice, the late Martin Luther King Jr, “the ultimate measure of a man,” or in this case woman, “is not where he  or she stands in moments of comfort and convenience, but where he or she stands at times of challenge and  controversy.” I think UNESCO and its Member States have taken accurate measure of your character. With these words,  my dear Irina, I wish you all the best for the next four years and once again proffer my own sincere congratulations on  your re-election. Thank you for your attention.
6. The President:   Thank you, Ms Cummins. It is my pleasure now to give the floor to the chairpersons of the regional electoral  groups, starting with His Excellency, Mr Jean-Pierre Blackburn, Ambassador of Canada and Chairperson of electoral  Group I. You have the floor, Sir.
7.1 M. Blackburn (Canada) (Groupe I) :   Merci, Monsieur le Président, Madame la Directrice générale et vous tous, Excellences et chers collègues.  Madame la Directrice générale, vous vivez un grand moment. Qu’il me soit permis de vous suggérer de vous poser  quelques instants et de regarder tout autour de vous pour vous imprégner de cette belle image de nous tous saluant ce  soir avec satisfaction votre victoire.  (L’orateur poursuit en anglais)
7.2 On behalf of Group I, I am happy to express our warm congratulations on your re-election. We welcome your  nomination which will allow you to pursue with the same vigour the action you undertook during your first term of office.  Like you, we want UNESCO to be an organization with the focus to meet global challenges instead of spreading its  resources too widely.  (The speaker continues in French)
7.3 Madame la Directrice générale, les membres du Groupe I tiennent à rappeler qu’ils sont particulièrement  attachés au respect des droits de la personne, de même qu’au rôle de chef de file de l’UNESCO en matière de liberté de  la presse. Madame la Directrice générale, notre groupe a une réelle confiance en votre détermination et votre courage  pour garder le cap en ce qui concerne le respect des valeurs de notre Organisation, des valeurs d’équité et de solidarité.  Comment, par ailleurs, ne pas souligner l’importance et l’amplitude des défis qui vous attendent ? Vous êtes le capitaine  du navire UNESCO et vous devrez peut-être affronter plusieurs tempêtes. Nous comptons – oui, nous comptons – sur  votre résilience et votre perspicacité pour mener ce navire à bon port. Meilleurs vœux, Madame la Directrice générale.
8. The President:   Thank you very much dear Ambassador. We will now hear from the Chairperson of electoral Group II, His  Excellency Mr Oleksandr Kupchyshyn, Ambassador of Ukraine. Please.
9. M. Kupchyshyn (Ukraine) (Groupe II) :   Monsieur le Président de la Conférence générale, Madame la Directrice générale, Mesdames et Messieurs,  Honorable assistance, c’est un très grand honneur pour moi d’adresser, au nom du Groupe électoral II et en celui de son  président, Monsieur l’Ambassadeur, délégué permanent de l’Ukraine auprès de l’UNESCO, qui est actuellement en  déplacement à l’étranger, nos très chaleureuses félicitations à Madame la Directrice générale pour sa réélection, et de  lui transmettre tous nos vœux de pleine réussite dans l’exercice de sa haute et noble mission à la tête de l’Organisation.  Madame la Directrice générale, votre réélection est pour nous, représentants des pays d’Europe centrale et orientale, un  très grand motif de fierté. Elle témoigne incontestablement de la reconnaissance de vos mérites et de vos compétences  personnelles. Le monde moderne est confronté à de sérieux défis qui nécessitent, peut-être plus que jamais, une  interaction plus poussée entre les États, plus particulièrement au sein des organisations internationales. Soyez assurée,  Madame la Directrice générale, que l’ensemble des pays de la région, dont mon pays – lequel, en tant que membre  nouvellement élu du Conseil exécutif de l’UNESCO, prendra une part active aux prises de décisions responsables visant  à assurer le bon fonctionnement de cet organe de direction –, sont à vos côtés et sont solidaires de vos inlassables  efforts pour trouver des réponses adéquates aux crises mondiales et régionales, notamment humanitaires, renforcer le  rôle de l’UNESCO dans le système des Nations Unies, le réformer et assurer un développement humain durable dans  les domaines prioritaires de son action. Bonne chance à vous, Madame la Directrice générale.
10. The President:   Thank you Your Excellency. It is my pleasure now to give the floor to Her Excellency, Ms Laura Faxas,  Ambassador of the Dominican Republic and the Chairperson of electoral Group III, who will speak on behalf of her group.
(11.1) Ms Faxas (Dominican Republic) (translation from the Spanish):   Mr President of the General Conference, Madam Chair of the Executive Board, Madam Director-General, delegates,  dear friends, Ms Estela de Carlotto, President of the Argentine Grandmothers of the Plaza de Mayo association, as Latin  Americans we feel very honoured by your presence in this room today.. Madam Director-General, in your excellent speech  “My Vision for UNESCO”, you spoke of the new humanism in action which you want to promote within UNESCO during the  next four years of your leadership. You said that this new age demanded a new humanism that combined human development  and environmental conservation and guaranteed equal access for all to the benefits of education, science, culture,  communication and information. In short, it is humanism based on solidarity and a global quest for greater social justice, with  people at its very centre.
(11.2) The Latin America and Caribbean Group (GRULAC) would like to tell you, while congratulating you once more on  your re-election to lead this noble cause, that we fully agree with you and that we actively support you in achieving the great  goal that you have set for us.
(11.3) We hope that your vision of the new humanism will be reflected in activities that meet the demands and challenges  of our time, taking into account the needs of Member States, and that UNESCO will play an active and effective role in the  United Nations post-2015 development agenda.
(11.4) Madam Director-General, you spoke of laying the foundations for a new UNESCO. To that we say “let’s do it!” in  order to achieve a more efficient Organization and greater leadership within the current restructuring of multilateralism, without  losing sight of the principles and values that drive this Organization and without forgetting our unwavering commitment both to  the world’s most vulnerable and most in need, and to the values of peace.
(11.5) In his great book “Walking Words”, the Uruguayan writer Eduardo Galeano describes “utopia” as a horizon that slips  further away from us as we draw ever closer to it. In reply to the question of the purpose of utopia, he says that its purpose is  to make us advance, to make us move forward.
(11.6) As we said on the day of your election, Madam Director-General, GRULAC is deeply committed to UNESCO and to  the values that it defends. We will be with you, at your side, to continue to believe that all is possible, to continue to support  your ambitious project for the future, centred on human beings, and to continue to move towards the ever-shifting horizon of  new utopias. Thank you very much, and we wish you every success in your new term of office.
12. The President:   Thank you Madam. I now give the floor to His Excellency, Mr Mohammad Reza Majidi, Ambassador of the  Islamic Republic of Iran and the Chairperson of electoral Group IV.
13.1 Mr Majidi (Islamic Republic of Iran) (Group IV):   Bismillāh ir-rahmān ir-rahīm (In the name of God, the Merciful, the Compassionate). Mr President of the General  Conference, Madam Chair of the Executive Board, Madam Director-General, Excellencies, dear colleagues, ladies and  gentlemen. Dear Ms Irina Bokova, it gives me great pleasure to have this opportunity to extend to you my sincere  congratulations on your investiture as Director-General following your re-election to this important position. I offer these  heartfelt congratulations in the name of both my delegation and country, and the two groups which I chaired, namely the  Asia and the Pacific Group (ASPAC) electoral Group IV and UNESCO’s Non-Aligned Movement Group. Your re-election  is a manifestation of the confidence this House holds in your experience and great capabilities which have steered  UNESCO through these last four years in such a way that it is becoming ever-more efficient and relevant to the  challenges faced by our interconnected worlds.
13.2 Madam Director-General, with your emphasis on the necessity of constructing a global culture of peace and your  commitment to UNESCO’s role in shaping the post-2015 sustainable development agenda, I am convinced that just as  you did during your first term of office, you will succeed in realizing the objectives of this House and enforcing its  relevance and visibility during your second term. During these challenging times of reform facing UNESCO, we assure  you that the ASPAC Group, which is currently honoured by the presence of the President of the General Conference, will  also extend its full support to you. I personally look forward to continuing my fruitful collaboration with you. Thank you  very much.
154 The President:   Thank you Ambassador. I now give the floor to His Excellency, Mr Solomon Jason Mbuzi, Ambassador of  Zambia and the representative of electoral Group V(a). Ambassador, you have the floor please.
15. Mr Mbuzi (Zambia) (Group V(a)):   Mr President of the General Conference, Chair of the Executive Board, Director-General, Excellencies, ladies  and gentlemen, it gives me great pleasure on behalf of the African Group, and indeed on my own behalf, to congratulate  you once more, Madam Director-General on your landmark election to lead UNESCO for a second term. We as the  Africa group would like to reaffirm our commitment to work with you, as we have done before, towards the attainment of  UNESCO’s ideals and objectives. We look forward to working very closely with you on Global Priority Africa as well as on  gender equality programmes. May God bless you and we wish you every success as you continue to run the affairs of  the very powerful global organization of UNESCO. Thank you.
(17.1) Mr Alneaimi (United Arab Emirates) (Group V (b)) (translation from the Arabic):   Mr President of the General Conference, Madam Chair of the Executive Board, Madam Director-General of  UNESCO, Excellencies, Ambassadors and Permanent Delegates, ladies and gentlemen, I am pleased to address the  Director-General of UNESCO, Ms Irina Bokova, as President of the Arab States group and as Permanent Delegate of the  United Arab Emirates, to stress our solidarity with her and to renew our confidence in her role and reformist vision, her ability  to grasp the ship’s tiller firmly in the middle of the gales and storms. As I say once again, despite the great discrepancy in time  and place, what De Gaulle’s Minister of Culture, the writer and politician André Malraux, once said in his wonderful book  L’Espoir (Man’s Hope), and I quote, “The value of a lighthouse on the shore becomes most apparent in times of difficulty,  when the waters rise up, directions narrow, and dangers are exacerbated.” We praise God that UNESCO has not lost its  compass. However, it is currently in difficult straits, faced with the challenge of sailing safely to the shore opposite. On the  threshold of her second term of office, she is clinging to the lighthouse that shows the way to the desired goals. By “lighthouse”,  we mean the wise reform measures, the methodical and well-considered steps, the fabric of geographically, culturally and  intellectually well-balanced variables.
(17.2) We in the Arab States group are relying on this new term of office in order to make progress in saving our sacred  objects from being plundered and despoiled in ancient Jerusalem, which is our prayer-book and our guiding loadstar. We seek  the umbrella of UNESCO’s international support for our educational institutions in the occupied Arab territories, and we hope  that there will be a successful engagement with the issues of education in all parts of the Arab States region. It is now time, at  this crucial crossroads, for us to martial our energies in this pioneering, cutting-edge Organization, and to declare a kind of  worldwide “knowledge emergency” in order to grapple with the typhoon of ignorance, obscurantism, exclusion and human  despair of all kinds. We desire a new approach which weaves harmonious relations between the various fields of knowledge,  restores faith in noble human values, shapes the concepts of interaction with the dynamics of modernism, and reaffirms the  historical conscience of societies such that specificities are not blurred under the cloak of globalization. Today, Ms Bokova, we  are embarking upon the adventure of your second term of office with the great fund of confidence accumulated during the first  term. Ms Bokova is thereby joining the caravan of towering figures who have steered this Organization and left their indelible  mark on its course. We wish her every success in all the steps she takes, so that UNESCO may remain a leading and prime  authority in its fields of competence. As-salāmu ‘alaikum wa-raḥmatu llāhi wa-barakātuh (Peace and the mercy and blessings  of God be upon you).
18. The President:   Thank you Ambassador. I wish to thank all representatives of the regional groups for your kind words. And now I  will give the floor to the Ambassador of France, His Excellency Mr Philippe Lalliot, who will speak on behalf of the host  country.
19.1 M. Lalliot (France) (Pays hôte) :   Monsieur le Président de la Conférence générale, Madame la Présidente du Conseil exécutif, Madame la  Directrice générale, Mesdames et Messieurs les Ambassadeurs, Mesdames et Messieurs, chers amis. Alors que vous  entamez un second mandat à la tête de l’UNESCO, je souhaite, Madame la Directrice générale, vous adresser les plus  vives félicitations des autorités françaises pour votre brillante réélection et nos vœux chaleureux de réussite. Vous savez  à quel point nous sommes attachés à cette organisation internationale, que nous avons contribué à fonder et dont nous  sommes fiers d’accueillir le Siège à Paris.
19.2 Vous avez engagé depuis quatre ans des réformes courageuses pour faire face aux importantes difficultés que  l’Organisation traverse. Je ne doute pas que l’UNESCO saura, sous votre direction et avec l’aide de tous les États  membres, surmonter ces difficultés, et qu’elle saura surtout en sortir plus forte. Soyez assurée de notre soutien pour la  mise en œuvre des mutations nécessaires. Ces réformes sont, en effet, indispensables pour permettre à l’UNESCO de  rester, face aux obscurantismes, aux violences et aux tentations du repli sur soi, un lieu ouvert sur le monde, un lieu de  discussion, de réflexion et de concertation multilatérale.
19.3 Le Ministre des affaires étrangères, M. Laurent Fabius, l’a dit à cette même tribune il y a quelques jours : la  France, éprise de culture et historiquement attachée à la promotion des droits de l’homme, souhaite relancer avec  l’UNESCO sa relation privilégiée d’État cofondateur et d’État du Siège et, en étroite collaboration avec vous et avec votre  équipe, y assumer toute sa place. Vous trouverez toujours en mon pays une force de proposition et d’action pour  permettre à l’UNESCO de remplir sa mission fondamentale : œuvrer en faveur d’un monde mieux éduqué, plus sûr et  plus juste, d’un monde davantage soucieux de culture et plus respectueux des différences. C’est dans cet esprit que  nous aborderons dans les mois qui viennent des sujets qui sont autant de priorités pour mon pays : la diversité culturelle  et linguistique à l’heure du numérique, le programme de développement des Nations Unies pour l'après-2015, la liberté  d’expression, la protection des journalistes, ou encore la lutte contre le dérèglement climatique.
19.4 Permettez-moi, Madame la Directrice générale, de conclure sur un mode plus personnel, pour vous remercier  de l’accueil que vous et vos collaborateurs du Secrétariat m’avez réservé et vous dire toute mon estime et toute mon  amitié. Madame la Directrice générale, tous nos vœux vous accompagnent.
20. The President:   Thank you Ambassador. Ladies and gentlemen, dear colleagues and friends, I invite you now to participate in a  special event prepared for this occasion.
349  (A specially prepared medley for the Director-General’s installation is screened)
21. Mme Dubois (France) (Maître de cérémonie) :   Monsieur le Président de la Conférence générale, Madame la Présidente du Conseil exécutif, Madame la  Directrice générale, distingués invités, pour cette cérémonie, la Directrice générale a souhaité donner la parole à trois  grands témoins qui reflètent le sens de l’action de l’UNESCO et vous montrer en images quelques exemples marquants  de notre impact sur le terrain. L’UNESCO s’engage en faveur de la protection de la culture dans les conflits en tant que  force de dignité, de réconciliation, de reconstruction. En 2011, le peuple et le patrimoine du nord du Mali ont été victimes  d’une attaque. Nous avons ce soir le privilège d’accueillir un invité exceptionnel qui fut le témoin direct de ces exactions.  Il a été instituteur dans différentes écoles primaires de Tombouctou ; il a créé une bibliothèque de manuscrits de plus de
5 000 volumes ; il est Président du Haut Conseil islamique de la région de Tombouctou ; il a joué un rôle essentiel durant  toute la période de l’occupation. L’UNESCO est fière de l’accompagner aujourd’hui dans la reconstruction du pays. Merci  d’accueillir très chaleureusement M. Abderrahmane Ben Essayouti, imam de la grande mosquée de Djingareyber à  Tombouctou.
22.1 M. Ben Essayouti (Imam de la grande mosquée de Djingareyber, Tombouctou, Mali) :   Madame la Directrice générale, Monsieur le Président de la Conférence générale, Madame la Présidente du  Conseil exécutif, Mesdames et Messieurs les Chefs de délégation, permettez-moi tout d’abord, devant cette auguste  Assemblée, de remercier la Directrice générale de l’UNESCO, qui m’a fait l’insigne honneur de me convier à participer  aux travaux de votre Conférence générale.
22.2 Le 2 février dernier, quelques jours après la libération de la ville de Tombouctou, j’ai eu l’immense bonheur de  vous accueillir, Madame la Directrice générale, à la célèbre mosquée de Djingareyber en compagnie du Président  français, M. François Hollande. Madame la Directrice générale, votre décision symbolique et courageuse de venir  personnellement à Tombouctou vous rendre compte de la situation de notre patrimoine nous a apporté du réconfort, de  l’espoir à tous, et nous a montré à quel point votre engagement à nos côtés était profond. Vous ne nous avez pas  oubliés pendant ces périodes difficiles, ces périodes tragiques où les populations de Tombouctou étaient comme dans  une prison à ciel ouvert. Lorsque vous m’avez invité à venir à Paris, en février dernier, je n’avais pas souhaité m’éloigner  de Tombouctou car ma communauté avait besoin de ma présence pour l’aider à se reconstruire, tant le traumatisme  causé par l’occupation était profond. Les destructions de nos mausolées ont constitué les moments les plus tragiques de  notre histoire récente. Ces destructions ont été commises par des individus dont les valeurs sont totalement contraires  aux valeurs de paix et de tolérance de l’islam et, je veux le redire, l’islam est une religion de paix et de dialogue. Quelles  que soient nos différences de cultures, d’origines, de croyances, il n’y a de devenir que dans le dialogue, dans la  compréhension. Nous devons toujours préférer la voie du dialogue, et c’est aussi ce symbole qui caractérise  Tombouctou : un lieu de partage, de recherche du dialogue des cultures et des religions.
22.3 Vous m’avez de nouveau invité à l’occasion de votre réinvestiture, ce qui montre l’attention particulière que vous  accordez à ce patrimoine. À travers moi, vous avez rendu hommage à tous les membres de ma communauté et au Mali  tout entier. Permettez-moi de m’exprimer en leur nom et de partager mon témoignage. Grâce à l’UNESCO, la  communauté internationale est restée mobilisée à nos côtés. Nous vous serons toujours reconnaissants, à vous et à vos  collaborateurs, de nous aider à protéger notre culture et notre identité. C’est par elles que notre communauté se relève  et reprend confiance. Nous sommes aussi reconnaissants à la France, aux pays africains et à la communauté  internationale, qui se sont mobilisés afin que le Mali retrouve sa dignité. Je voudrais aussi dire que, sous votre  leadership, nous sommes rassurés, et je salue l’action que l’UNESCO mène déjà sur le terrain avec une grande  efficacité. L’UNESCO avait promis de reconstruire, et l’UNESCO est en train de tenir ses promesses. Très vite, nous  pourrons de nouveau organiser les cérémonies de procession de nos saints une fois nos mausolées reconstruits, nos  mosquées et bibliothèques réhabilitées, nos manuscrits revenus à Tombouctou. Nous sommes confiants quant au fait  que cette action nous permettra, avec le soutien de vos partenaires, de créer les conditions de la réconciliation, de  retrouver ce qui a toujours caractérisé Tombouctou : une communauté unie autour de son patrimoine millénaire. Merci à  l’UNESCO et merci, Madame la Directrice générale, pour votre implication personnelle dans la reconstruction de ce  patrimoine. Nos vœux et bénédictions vous accompagnent : que le Seigneur tout puissant, dans sa miséricorde,  accompagne nos travaux. Je vous remercie.
23. Mme Dubois (France) (Maître de cérémonie) :   Merci Monsieur l’imam, merci beaucoup. L’UNESCO, depuis son origine, a fait de l’éducation la condition de la  paix, de la confiance en soi, de l’épanouissement individuel et collectif. L’éducation transforme la vie, et le petit film que  nous allons voir, consacré à notre action en faveur de l’alphabétisation des filles et des femmes en Afghanistan, est une  illustration de ce merveilleux pouvoir.  (Diffusion à l’écran d’un film sur l’éducation des filles en Afghanistan)
24. Mme Dubois (France) (Maître de cérémonie) :   Nous recevons maintenant une femme d’exception. Elle incarne la lutte des mères, des grands-mères, des  familles d’Argentine, qui luttent pour retrouver trace de leurs enfants – près de 400 enfants arrachés à leurs parents  pendant la dictature militaire. Mme Enriqueta Estela Barnes de Carlotto est Présidente du mouvement des Grands- mères de la place de Mai. Elle a reçu ici même le Prix Félix Houphouët-Boigny pour la recherche de la paix. Son  message incarne l’un des fondements de l’UNESCO : la paix doit s’ancrer au plus profond des sociétés, dans le respect  de la personne, des droits humains, le respect de la mémoire et de l’avenir.
(25.1) Ms Estela Barnes de Carlotto (President of Grandmothers of the Plaza de Mayo)    (translation from the Spanish):   Madam Chair of the Executive Board, Madam Director-General, ladies and gentlemen, I am honoured to have been  invited to participate in UNESCO’s General Conference by the Director-General, Ms Irina Bokova, a true friend of the  Grandmothers of the Plaza de Mayo, who promoted and supported us for the award of the Félix Houphouët-Boigny Peace  Prize, the honourable prize awarded to us in 2011. Owing to her solidarity and commitment to humanitarian causes, she has  become one of the leading voices on these issues worldwide.
(25.2) Her work in UNESCO has facilitated and supported the Argentine initiative to establish the International Centre for  the Advancement of Human Rights on the premises of the Ex ESMA, the former Navy Mechanics School and symbol of the  clandestine detention centres of the last military dictatorship, to which Ms Bokova paid an emotional and brave visit,  acknowledging Argentina as a model country in the transformation of sites of former horrors into places of memory.
(25.3) This initiative, promoted by the Argentine Ministry of Education, the Human Rights Secretariat of the Ministry of  Justice and Human Rights and the Office of the Minister of Foreign Affairs, was institutionalized when an agreement between  the Argentine Republic and UNESCO was signed in February 2009. On 30 November 2011 the National Parliament passed  law 26708 which ratified the agreement and the Centre was established. A coordination unit, established in 2008 to coordinate  matters and organize the above-mentioned Centre, carried out activities in order to promote and defend human rights, relying  on UNESCO’s financial support.
(25.4) Thirty years after democracy was reinstated in the country, Argentina is strengthening various aspects of its human  rights policies. Social-inclusion policies based on respect for economic and social rights, a human rights-based approach to  the integration of migrants into national development innovative laws on gender identity passed recently in Congress, dignity in  dying, marriage equality and mental health are but some of Argentina’s concrete contributions to international human-rights  law in a world that still continues to debate many of these issues without reaching a consensus.
(25.5) The eradication of impunity for crimes against humanity committed during the period of State terrorism is central to  that human rights agenda. That unique process has been acclaimed by the international community and human rights  movements: 20 years after the re-establishment of democracy, hundreds of court cases were reopened throughout the country.
351  In 2012, there were 1,013 judicial proceedings and 24 trials were completed in which 134 defendants were convicted. There  are currently 13 ongoing trials in Argentina in which 232 defendants are being tried concerning the cases of more than 1,800  victims. In this context, many witnesses from around the world have given evidence to judges in Argentina by videoconference  in Argentina’s overseas consulates.
(25.6) This transcendental change after long years of impunity is due to the maturity of the Argentine people and institutions,  the tireless work of human rights movements in their legitimate quest for justice and the political determination of the former  President Néstor Kirchner, which is still shown today by the current President Cristina Fernández de Kirchner. The sum of  these factors allowed, for the first time since the re-establishment of democracy and in response to a new social contract, the  three branches of government to remove all existing legal obstacles in order to identify and punish those responsible for  widespread and systematic human rights violations. Those steps were taken within the setting of ordinary trials, applying  ordinary criminal law and international human rights law – which has constitutional standing in Argentina – in full accordance  with due process.
(25.7) I should like to express, once again, my thanks to Ms Bokova and to wish her, in the name of the Organization over  which she presides, a successful future. I intend to follow her advice never to give up. Thank you very much.
26. Ms Dubois (Master of Ceremonies):   Our next speaker is a singer; a lady of soul and jazz from New Orleans. Just a few days ago, she launched  UNESCO’s Creative Economy Report and it is no exaggeration to say she literally captivated the audience. The song  she is about to sing is an ode to humanism that bears witness to the belief I think we all share in the beauty of this world  and the reach of the human mind. Please welcome Ms Nicole Slack Jones.  Nicole Slack Jones sings “What a wonderful world”
27. Ms Dubois (Master of Ceremonies):   Thank you Nicole, that was fantastic. Thank you. Our next speaker is, according to Newsweek, one of the most  prominent thinkers of our time. He is the Director of the Humanities Centre at Harvard University, and last year he was  awarded a Padma Bhushan by the Indian Government. His work on the dynamics of cultural diversity in a globalizing  world is at the cutting edge of contemporary debate. We are deeply grateful for his many contributions to UNESCO as a  House of ideas, a place for intellectual leadership. Without further ado, I have the pleasure of inviting Professor Homi  Bhabha to speak. Sir, you have the floor.
28.1 Mr Bhabha (India):   Mr President, Director-General, delegates, ladies and gentlemen, what has been inspiring about your first term  as Director-General, Ms Bokova, and what fills us with hope and optimism for your future leadership, is your commitment  to a new humanism. The framework of a new humanism as you describe it is rooted in a profound respect for human  dignity, fundamental rights and the diversity of cultures. No ethical or political mission is more crucial for the new  humanism than the advancement and emancipation of women and girls. Gender equality and capability is the measure  of civility and progress for all human beings. Sustainability is often seen as an ecological issue. What I would like to  suggest is that it is also an issue of our moral economy as we live in the world amongst others. UNESCO’s insistence on  the integration of cultural imperatives in the future sustainable development goals is a step in placing the new humanism  at the heart of the global policy agenda. Respect for cultural diversity is grounded in the recognition of the contribution of  cultures to the history of the world, not simply in the interests of nation and region. It is dignity in the sense of what  makes the world and society sustainable that provides, in your phrase, “the software for peace.”
28.2 What is the new humanism? Each era that announces a new epoch of human development must also  acknowledge its shortcomings and contradictions. No description of Renaissance humanism is more admiring than  Shakespeare’s: “What a piece of work is man, how noble in reason, how infinite in faculties, in form, in moving how  express and admirable, in action how like an angel, in apprehension how like a god!” And yet, these words are spoken by  the melancholic Prince Hamlet who sees about him a world of murder, regicide and intrigue. Enlightenment humanism  has never been better represented than by Immanuel Kant’s concept of cosmopolitanism. And yet, Kant wrote those  words in the wake of the Thirty Years’ War. While it is widely acclaimed today that the embrace of global markets and  technologies can create a transnational and transcultural global humanism of digital connectivity, Joseph Stiglitz warns  us that there are times when the development policies of international bodies are seen as the intrusion by the new  colonial power on the sovereignty of countries. The history of humanism then teaches us that we have to continually  readjust, struggle with the pros and the cons, the positives and the negatives, a lesson that you, Madam Director- General, have articulated and that UNESCO has taken forward.
28.3 The new humanism must be seen neither as a utopian dream nor as an ideological compulsion. No, the new  humanism is an aspirational project and I understand “project” in the French sense of the word “projet”, a design, a  perspective, a subject or object of contemplation. The new humanism is then a work in progress, not because its ideas  need further thought, nor because it is conceptually inadequate. But the new humanism must remain a framework of  belief and an armature of action. It cannot be represented to the world as a prescriptive set of ideas, because ideas that  have a universal application across different societies, which is indeed the global jurisdiction of UNESCO, can never be  dogmatic ideas. Ideas that have a global significance must be open to global doubt, according to the Indian economist  and ethicist Amartya Sen, because universal ideas and ideals are, as we know, always with us, we are never free of  them, they return continuously with a foundational force. Universal ideas revisit each generation, each country and make  us redefine them again, renew them, rethink them. Doubt, I want to suggest, is part of the creation of the universal. It is  crucial because we agree on the values of universal principles, like the new humanism, not by asserting them on the  world stage but by arguing for them and becoming advocates for them as the best practices of UNESCO and the United  Nations demonstrate. Doubt, friends, is part of the dialectic of freedom. As the driving force of the new humanism, doubt  is the process by which we test our actions as agents in the world. Who would have guessed, without a doubt, that the
352  rebuilding of the Old Bridge of Mostar under UNESCO’s stewardship would restore dialogue between warring  communities? Is it not for this reason, Irina Bokova, that you have argued that the new humanism is not simply a  philosophical debate – it is a policy imperative and a policy issue.
28.4 Let me turn to three areas central to UNESCO’s mission, where the new humanism has important policy  implications: education, civil society and the ethical imperative of universal dignity. This is what I have called earlier the  armature of action, of the project of the new humanism. It is difficult to conceive of a flourishing of new humanism if the  map of knowledge is itself deeply distorted. Madam Director-General, this age of the World Wide Web is in some ways a  very narrow, parochial place. According to reliable sources, the United States and the United Kingdom published more  index journals than the rest of the world. There are, remarkably, more articles, 7,800, written about Antarctica than about  any country in Africa or South America. In this map of educational unsustainability, if I might coin a phrase, the  humanistic disciplines are in a state of emergency. How can the new humanism take root if the soil of humanistic thought  is left to wither in our educational institutions?
28.5 What is neglected in this era of big data is the remarkable integrative capacity of the humanities. The integrative  capability of the humanities has given rise across the world to a number of hybrid disciplines: the digital humanities, the  medical humanities, the legal humanities. Notice how such interdisciplinary formations display the extension of the  humanities into areas of public and social policy and social ethics. From this perspective it becomes clear that the  humanities in the company of scientific discoveries can be preeminent in contributing to a new notion of a global civil  society. A civil society is a collaborative form of association that articulates diverse claims and interests and that breaks  down the borders of inclusion and exclusion. If we are seriously going global, let me suggest we should not consider the  authority of international civil society as a new framing – should we not think of international civil society as the framing,  in many ways, of our educational and scientific efforts which have so often over time been national in their emphasis?  Would this not be in harmony with what you call the new humanism as a project for the future? The desire for educational  equity is a foundation stone for dignity, for confidence, and as a force to strengthen capacities, to allow women and men  to withstand the pressure of change and make the most of their opportunities in historical moments that are often  unsettled, fragile and transitional. There can be no development, no sustainability if we do not start with education.  Dignity, dear Director-General, goes beyond the respect and the rights we endow to individual human beings. Dignity,  contemporary philosophers argue, is based not only on the claims of the present but also on the hopes for radical  freedom in the future. Human beings are moved by a sense of possibility or potentiality, of the unrealized, of the what is  not yet but to come, and to respect the dignity of human history, of human beings, of human societies, we have to  respect this potential of what is to come in the future, not only what we have at present. UNESCO plays an urgent role in  the world today, but UNESCO’s commitment to strengthening the sustainability of a complex global world is an act of  endowing dignity to the future. It is the project of the new humanism that provides us with an aspirational vision of the not  yet, of what is yet to be fulfilled, and this binds us even more firmly to protecting and transforming the world as we know it  today. Let the new humanism, then, define the horizon of our shared history, our collective social and political ethics and  our morality. Madam Director-General, lead us to that horizon of the new humanism. All the very best of luck. Thank you  very much.
29. Ms Dubois (Master of Ceremonies):   Before I give the floor to the Director-General to review the action of UNESCO and her vision over the next four  years, I invite you to take a look at this short film on recent work by UNESCO to build peace across the world.  A short film is screened on the achievements of the Director-General’s first term of office
30. Ms Dubois (Master of Ceremonies):   Thank you. And it is now my privilege to give the floor to the Director-General of UNESCO, Irina Bokova.
31.1 The Director-General:    Mr President of the General Conference, Madam Chair of the Executive Board, Excellencies, ladies and  gentlemen, dear friends, I measure the importance of this moment, and I thank you for your trust. Let me first and  foremost thank the three extraordinary personalities who have accompanied this wonderful ceremony. I am deeply  honoured to assume the position of UNESCO Director-General for a second term. This hall has heard the voices of so  many great women and men – Pablo Neruda, Leopold Senghor, Eleanor Roosevelt, Claude Lévi-Strauss, and so many  others who changed the world. I measure the power of their aspirations, and I make them mine. I measure the ambitions  of our Constitution, and I pledge to do everything to help countries meet them. I stand before you, more inspired than  ever by the vision we share: the vision of a world of human rights and dignity, the vision of humanity as a single  community, the vision of a stronger multilateral order, a stronger United Nations. I pledge to never relent in taking this  forward.
31.2 UNESCO was created in 1945, 68 years ago just last Saturday, but its idea is as old as humanity itself. This is  the idea of humanism, expressed by the spirit of ubuntu, “human kindness” in Bantu, by Confucius, by the nineteenth- century Indian humanist, Swami Vivekananda, and so many others. It is the conviction that every woman and man can  become everything they aspire to – what Michel de Montaigne, the French Renaissance thinker, called “la hauteur  extrême de l’humaine nature.” It is the belief in a single humanity, embodied by each one of us. The late Nigerian writer,  Chinua Achebe once wrote: “You must find a way to accept something, however small, from the other to make you  whole.” Each of us is different, but we are not alone, we stand together, and each of us embodies the whole of humanity.   (The Director-General continues in Spanish)
(31.3) Ladies and gentlemen, this is what UNESCO stands for, and never has our message been so urgent. Globalization  is accelerating and so is the impact of climate change and natural disasters. There has been tremendous growth, but  inequalities are increasing. Technologies are changing the way we communicate, learn and behave. Societies are more  connected than ever, but also more vulnerable.
(31.4) Information has never been so available, but the knowledge gap is still widening. The world is younger than ever and  profound change is transforming regions. Human rights aspirations are high but so are thwarted expectations. The  opportunities for peace are strong, but conflict has moved within countries and culture is on the front line.
(31.5) Throughout the world, we see tremendous progress: millions are being lifted out of poverty thanks to the great  humanist agenda of the Millennium Development Goals and the post-2015 development agenda, but the challenges remain  substantial – exclusion, poverty and conflict – and new ones are emerging.
(31.6) We are relied upon to rethink peace and reinvent development. These goals require education, science, culture,  communication and information to be at the top of the political agenda.
(31.7) Historic changes are under way and UNESCO is taking the lead in shaping a better future for all. I have seen it  throughout the world. I have seen it in the words inscribed on the wall of the Ayesha-e-Durrani girls’ school in Kabul: “My pen  is my sword”. I heard it from Rokhaya Sow, a teenager in Pikine, Senegal, who told me that UNESCO helped her to stay in  school. I saw it in Angola, where 3,000 young women and men, waving white handkerchiefs for peace, met to launch the  UNESCO-African Union campaign to promote a culture of peace in Africa “Make Peace Happen”. I heard it in the speech of  the President of Peru, H.E. Mr Ollanta Humala, in the United Nations General Assembly in September: “We must find another  way … this is not only about growing to include, but also about including to keep growing.”  (The Director-General continues in English)
31.8 Ladies and gentlemen, as we heard from the President of Ireland, Michael D. Higgins, who spoke to us last  February: “True peace requires a form of consciousness that not only eschews all forms of violence but which also  envisages the rich fruits of peaceful life together.” These voices are strong and so they must be. Last year, in Timbuktu,  during the attacks against the mausoleums, one extremist declared: “There is no such thing as world heritage – it doesn’t  exist.” These words must strengthen us in our convictions. With President François Hollande, I travelled to Timbuktu and  I saw the burnt manuscripts, violated testaments of a millennial Islamic culture, and I am more determined than ever to  act. UNESCO is here to amplify the voices of unity against those of division. UNESCO is here to remind us that lasting  peace and sustainable development are two sides of the same coin, that there can be no peace without poverty  eradication, no poverty eradication without peace. This is the same agenda – an agenda for human dignity, an agenda  for inclusive development, to empower every woman and man.
31.9 We have, ladies and gentlemen, entered a new age of limits. We are reaching the limits of our planet. We are  reaching the limits of development as it has been understood until now. In this new era, we must make the most of the  greatest renewable energy we have – human ingenuity. Human creativity is our great strength, a bottomless well, whose  power we must unleash. This is UNESCO’s humanist mission, and it has guided me in everything I have done. In 2009, I  pledged to strengthen UNESCO’s leadership at the heart of the United Nations, to bolster the multilateral order. We are  moving on all fronts, and our leadership has never been more in demand. In 2009, I pledged to strengthen the centrality  of education for development. Together, we have accelerated education for all, and our action is bearing fruit, on access  for boys and girls – and especially girls – on literacy, on the quality of teaching and learning. In 2009, I pledged a  renewed focus on the sciences. Together, we took UNESCO’s message to Rio+20, we deepened our work for  sustainable water management, for protecting biodiversity, for ocean sciences and monitoring. We are supporting  developing countries to harness the power of science, technology and innovation, through capacity building, through  national frameworks. In 2009, I pledged to create a High Panel on Science for Development, to tighten the link between  research and policy, and I did so, giving this a global reach with the creation of the Scientific Advisory Board for the  United Nations Secretary-General, hosted by UNESCO.
31.10 In 2009, I pledged to re-launch the debate on culture and development. We are taking our message of culture as  an enabler and driver of sustainable development across the world, and we are gaining momentum. In 2009, I pledged to  solidify UNESCO’s normative framework in culture. I have launched a vibrant debate on the integrity and credibility of the  World Heritage Convention, and the World Heritage List is increasingly balanced and diverse. To safeguard the heritage  and identity of societies in a globalizing world, I have strengthened the 1970 Convention on the Means of Prohibiting and  Preventing Illicit Import, Export and Transfer of Ownership of Cultural Property, to halt this plague, to deepen cooperation  and to raise awareness. Together, we have acted to protect cultural heritage under attack – in Libya, in the Syrian Arab  Republic, in Mali, in Egypt – because this millennial heritage carries universal value, because its loss is a loss to each of  us.
31.11 In 2009, I pledged to promote communication and information and freedom of expression, as human rights  essential for inclusive, knowledge societies, and for sustainable development. Together, we are developing media and  training journalists, we are leading the United Nations in enhancing their safety and tackling impunity. In 2009, I pledged  to strengthen UNESCO’s two global priorities: Africa and gender equality. Together, we have deepened UNESCO’s work  for girls and women’s education in countries most in need. Together, we have sharpened UNESCO’s action to sustain  Africa’s Renaissance. Africa is rising – I have seen this for myself, in the dynamism of young women and men, in the  determination of governments to craft balanced development, and UNESCO is supporting this historic movement. In
2009, I pledged to strengthen UNESCO’s capacity to react to emergencies, and we have done so, in Haiti, in Pakistan, in  the Horn of Africa. In 2009, I pledged to reform UNESCO, to sharpen our focus, to deepen our impact, to raise our profile.  Together, we have stood down a financial crisis, we are leading a root-and-branch reform, our delivery is improving and  we are gaining in visibility. And here I wish to express special thanks to all UNESCO staff, for their professionalism and  commitment. In all of this, ladies and gentlemen, we have been guided by a single determination: to reposition UNESCO,  to meet the ambitions of our mandate, to craft a better future for all. This has always been my deep commitment and  responsibility. There remains much to do, but UNESCO is moving forward, our eyes are set firmly on the goals we share.  (The Director-General continues in French)
31.12 Mesdames et Messieurs, nous avons beaucoup fait et il nous reste beaucoup à faire. Dans ce monde hyper- connecté, interdépendant, nous devons agir ensemble, car l’espace multilatéral est le seul espace où nous pouvons  espérer régler nos problèmes de façon pacifique et durable. Dans ce monde en pleine transformation, nous devons  aussi rester fidèles aux principes fondateurs de l’humanisme : la dignité humaine – que le philosophe italien Jean Pic de  la Mirandole voyait dans cette capacité de l’humain de se définir lui-même, de se réaliser pleinement – l’égalité, l’équité  et, bien sûr, la solidarité. Nous devons faire vivre ces principes au XXIe siècle et les adapter aux défis de notre temps.  C’est ma vision du Nouvel humanisme. D’abord, la dignité humaine est aujourd’hui indissociable du développement  humain, de la lutte contre la pauvreté. Et le développement humain n’a de sens, nous le comprenons désormais, que s’il  est durable. Il se retourne contre lui-même s’il se fait au détriment de la planète. Il se retourne contre lui-même s’il n’est  au bénéfice de tous. C’est le sens du nouveau programme de développement pour l’après-2015 : un programme en  faveur de la durabilité.
31.13 Et c’est là que le mandat de l’UNESCO prend tout son sens. Notre Acte constitutif est justement un pacte en  faveur de la durabilité qui vise à poser les fondements d’une paix durable, d’une prospérité durable. La durabilité, c’est  l’éducation de qualité, qui transforme les vies et constitue le premier levier de développement humain, qui permet de  s’adapter au changement, de se réinventer. C’est le fondement le plus robuste des sociétés. La durabilité, c’est aussi la  culture, notre ciment social par excellence, notre force d’inclusion, grâce à laquelle nous prenons confiance et nous  puisons dans notre histoire l’énergie nécessaire pour nous projeter dans la durée. La culture est cette force de résilience  dont parle l’écrivain Dany Laferrière, devant les ruines d’Haïti frappé par le séisme : « le pays se relèvera par la culture ».  La culture est une force de réconciliation après les conflits, surtout la culture vivante portée par les peuples. La durabilité,  c’est le renforcement des capacités des sociétés par les sciences, la recherche, le partage des savoirs, qui permettent  d’innover, d’inventer, de mieux anticiper les risques, de se préparer aux aléas d’un monde incertain. C’est construire des  sociétés plus robustes, plus résilientes, capables de faire face aux mutations rapides de notre environnement, aux  pressions du réchauffement climatique, aux transformations sociales, aux risques naturels. Et, dans ce contexte, nous  devons prêter main forte aux plus fragiles, aux plus vulnérables, aux pays les moins avancés, aux petits États insulaires  en développement, aux communautés marginalisées, car nos destins sont liés. Nous devons intervenir dans l’urgence  des conflits et des catastrophes, auprès des plus fragiles, afin de les aider à s’adapter au changement, à se relever  rapidement. C’est la nouvelle frontière de la dignité humaine, c’est mon premier axe d’action.  (La Directrice générale poursuit en russe)
(31.14) Sustainable development is inseparable from equality, and equality in the twenty-first century is above all equality between men  and women. This is the second strand of my work. Equality between men and women is a matter of justice and human rights. It is also the  best way of investing in the future, a powerful catalyst for human development and the fight against poverty. Our particular role consists  precisely in ensuring that, through education and access to culture and information, women are empowered to make their own choices and  that their role in society is acknowledged in full.
(31.15) Today, two thirds of illiterate adults in the world are women. In the age of the Internet and the knowledge society,
31 million girls even now have no access to basic education. Thirty-four million girls and female teenagers do not go to school.  They are forced to leave school because they have become victims of violence, because they were married off at the age of
10 or 12, because they are considered responsible for fetching water, because they come from poor families.
(31.16) This is where the bloodless civil war of our time is being waged. Gender parity is literacy. Gender parity is access to  science. Gender parity is not only a right on paper, it is the genuine possibility for girls to become the person they want to be,  the possibility of fulfilling themselves, and through such women the whole of society becomes stronger and more developed.
(31.17) This is the original essence of UNESCO´s mission, precisely because we come up with instruments to ensure  independence and development and, in the context of our mandate, it is in that very direction that we must focus all our  strength.  (The Director-General continues in French)
31.18 Mesdames et Messieurs, l’humanisme, c’est enfin la solidarité, la conviction d’appartenir à une même famille  humaine. Cette solidarité doit prendre aujourd’hui la forme d’une nouvelle citoyenneté mondiale à l’ère de la diversité. La  mondialisation, l’urbanisation, la diversité culturelle dessinent des sociétés multiculturelles aux identités multiples. Cette  diversité nous oblige à repenser le développement, le dialogue, la tolérance, la cohésion sociale, et même la paix. Les  frontières de la paix se déplacent à l’intérieur des sociétés, dans la perception que chacun se fait de sa culture et de  celle des autres. Faire la paix avec les autres suppose d’être en paix avec soi-même, avec des affiliations multiples et  des mémoires blessées qui demandent le respect. Cette richesse est aussi un trésor de créativité, de renouvellement  des idées, si nous apprenons à concilier, dans le même mouvement, la diversité qui nous enrichit et les droits humains  qui nous rassemblent. Et l’UNESCO joue un rôle unique en la matière en proposant des curricula, des compétences qui  permettent aux citoyens de vivre avec des cultures différentes, des langues différentes, en bâtissant des synergies  culturelles.
31.19 Notre rôle est de fournir les outils nécessaires pour faire de cette diversité une force de dialogue et de  compréhension, pour relever les défis communs qui nous dépassent. Car il faut vivre et travailler ensemble : le  réchauffement climatique, les risques naturels ne connaissent pas de frontières. La gestion de l’eau, la biodiversité ne  connaissent pas de frontières. La science ne connait pas de frontières. Il faut créer des espaces, des mentalités, des  compétences pour relever ces défis dans la diversité de nos cultures, de nos croyances, de nos origines. Notre  Déclaration universelle sur la diversité culturelle est le dictionnaire de ce monde globalisé, un manuel de citoyenneté  pour les sociétés multiculturelles. Plus que jamais, nous mesurons la portée de la formule du Président Houphouët- Boigny : « la paix n’est pas un mot, c’est un comportement », un savoir-faire. L’éducation doit être un apprentissage des  valeurs et des compétences interculturelles indispensables au XXIe siècle, initier les jeunes à la citoyenneté mondiale.  C’est le troisième pilier de l’Initiative mondiale pour l'éducation avant tout, lancée par le Secrétaire général de l’ONU et  pilotée par l’UNESCO.
31.20 Je repense avec émotion au rêve de Doris Lessing, prix Nobel de littérature, qui nous a quittés hier et qui lutta  toute sa vie contre la « culture à fragmentation », dans laquelle des jeunes qui ont bénéficié d’années d’études ne  connaissent qu’une spécialité ou une autre et sont ignorants des réalités du monde, incapables de le penser  globalement. Je la cite en anglais, avec votre permission :  (La Directrice générale poursuit en anglais)
31.21 “We have a treasure-house. It is all there, this wealth of literature, to be discovered again and again by whoever  is lucky enough to come upon it. Let us suppose our world is ravaged by war. Let us suppose floods wash through our  cities, the seas rise. But the storyteller will be there, for it is our imaginations which shape us, keep us, create us. It is our  stories that will recreate us, when we are torn, hurt, even destroyed. It is the storyteller, the dream-maker, the myth- maker, that is our phoenix, that represents us at our best, and at our most creative.” These were the words of Doris  Lessing, who passed away yesterday.  (The Director-General continues in French)
31.22 L’UNESCO est cette plate-forme universelle par excellence, un laboratoire d’idées, un réseau unique pour faire  vivre ce patrimoine, décloisonner les disciplines, apprendre à agir avec les autres et nous renouveler sans cesse. Je  pense aux sites du patrimoine mondial. Je pense aux réserves de biosphère. Nous devons être plus ambitieux,  encourager la mise en réseau des sites, créer des espaces transfrontaliers du patrimoine partagé entre plusieurs pays,  favoriser les manuels scolaires communs, partager la mémoire et la culture vivante des peuples au-delà des frontières, à  l’échelle des continents. Les nouvelles technologies rendent cette orientation plus urgente encore. L’UNESCO,
356  Mesdames et Messieurs, est la maison de la paix et nous pouvons mettre à jour les instruments de la paix. Renforcer la  durabilité d’un monde fragile. Assurer l’égalité entre les femmes et les hommes. Construire la citoyenneté à l’âge de la  diversité. Voilà ce qui définit, à mes yeux, le Nouvel humanisme, la clé de la paix aujourd’hui et l’apport de l’UNESCO.
31.23 Les fondateurs de cette Maison ont exprimé une vision qui est un acte de foi dans les capacités humaines, une  défense de l’humanisme au lendemain d’une guerre qui en fut la négation. Il fallait du courage pour parler de solidarité  intellectuelle dans un monde dévasté, détruit physiquement et moralement. Devant les urgences de notre temps, nous  devons répondre avec le même courage, avec la même audace. Le serment que j’ai prêté à l’instant, prononcé par tous  ceux qui m’ont précédée, est un serment pour l’humanisme. C’est le serment de millions d’hommes et de femmes qui  luttent chaque jour pour la justice, la tolérance, l’état de droit. C’est le serment de millions d’enfants sur le chemin de  l’école et la promesse de leurs parents qui veulent pour eux un avenir meilleur. Un avenir de paix et de prospérité. Je  prends, en cet instant, toute la mesure de la confiance que vous m’accordez et je m’engage à faire honneur à cette  vision du meilleur de l’humain, qui est l’honneur de l’UNESCO. Je vous remercie de cette confiance.
32. Mme Dubois (France) (Maître de cérémonie) :   Merci. Avant de rendre la parole à Monsieur le Président de la Conférence générale pour clore cette cérémonie,  nous allons accueillir un chanteur que nous aimons tous beaucoup. Salif Traoré A’Salfo est Ambassadeur de bonne  volonté de l’UNESCO et nous lui sommes reconnaissants d’avoir composé la chanson « Savoir », dont il a cédé les  droits, aujourd’hui même, en faveur de nos programmes pour l’éducation. Il va nous interpréter ce soir, avec le groupe  Magic System, le titre « Bouger, Bouger », et je vous demande de les applaudir chaleureusement.  (Salif Traoré (A’Salfo) chante « Bouger, bouger ».)
33. Mme Dubois (France) (Maître de cérémonie) :   Mesdames et Messieurs, cette cérémonie touche à sa fin. J’espère qu’elle vous a inspirés, éclairés, et qu'elle a  aussi renforcé votre attachement à l’UNESCO. Je rends la parole à Monsieur le Président de la Conférence générale et  vous remercie de votre attention.
34. The President:   Ladies and gentlemen, dear colleagues, thank you very much for a wonderful event. The meeting is now  adjourned.  The meeting rose at 7.35 p.m.  La séance est levée à 19 h 35  Se levanta la sesión a las 19.35  Заседание закрывается в 19.35  رالظه بعد ٧,٣٥اسلسة يف الساعة  رفعت   会议于 19 时 35 分结束