358  Report of the APX Commission (Finance, Administration and General Questions, Programme Support and  External Relations) (37 C/70)  Rapport de la Commission APX (Finances, administration et questions générales, soutien du programme et  relations extérieures) (37 C/70)   Informe de la Comisión APX (Cuestiones Financieras y Administrativas, Asuntos Generales, Apoyo del  Programa y Relaciones Exteriores) (37 C/70)   Доклад Комиссии APX (финансовые, административные и общие вопросы, поддержка выполнения  программы и внешние связи) (37 C/70)   )٧٠م/٣٧جة تقرير لجنة الشؤون المالية واإلدارية والمسائل العامة ومساندة البرنامج والعالقات الخارجي    行政、计划支助和对外关系委员会(财务、行政和一般问题、计划支助和对外关系)的报告(37 C/70)
1. The President:   Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. I declare open the fifteenth plenary meeting of the 37th session of the  General Conference. Dear colleagues, thanks to your joint efforts, active participation, transparent communication,  mutual understanding and respect, the General Conference has completed most of its agenda and is reaching its close.  The following two days of our meetings will be dedicated to examination of reports of the programme commissions and  the committees, and the adoption of the Appropriation Resolution. We will also have a brief closing ceremony to mark the  end of our work. Your Excellencies, let us now hear the report of the APX Commission which is contained in document
37 C/70. Mr Matthew Sudders will present this document. Mr Sudders, you have the floor.
2.1 Mr Sudders (United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland) (Chairperson of the APX Commission):   Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr President of the General Conference, Madam Chair of the Executive  Board, Mr Deputy Director-General, Excellencies, distinguished delegates and dear colleagues, it is with pleasure that I  submit to you the report of the work of the Commission for Financial, Administrative and General Questions, Programme  Support and External Relations (APX Commission) of the 37th session of the General Conference.
2.2 We considered 23 items from 6 to 8 November. The Commission’s report, document 37 C/70, includes only draft  resolutions that the Commission recommends to the General Conference for adoption. The APX Commission adopted its  timetable wherein items 5.1, 6.3, 10.1, 12.2, 12.3, and 13.1 were approved without debate.
2.3 Mr President, as the APX Commission meetings were so brief, I shall do my best to be as brief as I can in my  oral report. Allow me first to return briefly to item 1.3 on voting rights. Item 1.3 “Report by the Director-General on  communications received from Member States invoking the provisions of Article 4(c), paragraph 8 (c) of the Constitution”.  You will recall that I delivered on Saturday, 9 November, at the ninth plenary meeting, a separate oral report on this item,  following which the corresponding resolution was adopted without debate. In this report, I indicated that the Islamic  Republic of Iran had expressed its commitment to transfer the minimum amount through the United Nations  Development Programme (UNDP) in Tehran within one week. And I am pleased to inform the plenary that the minimum  payment for eligibility for voting rights was received from the Government of the Islamic Republic of Iran on the very  same day, Saturday, 9 November.
2.4 Mr President, let me now turn to item 4.1 “Methods of preparing the budget, budget estimates for 2014-2015,  and budgeting techniques”. This item was examined in conjunction with item 4.2 “Consideration and adoption of the Draft  Programme and Budget for 2014-2017”. Prior to the debate, the representative of the Director-General explained in a  comprehensive manner how the draft document 37 C/5 and the $507 million expenditure plan had been elaborated,  following the various decisions of the Executive Board on the issue. Importantly, it was also recalled that the  recommendations from the Executive Board concerning certain programme shifts and corresponding budget transfers  had already been approved at the joint meeting of commissions on the day before, in the afternoon of 6 November.  Members of the Commission commended the Secretariat for their work achieved in the budget elaboration in the context  of the current financial situation. In a nutshell, the Commission expressed its agreement with the principles and  techniques applied to the establishment of draft document 37 C/5, including the application of results-based budgeting,  which received the appreciation of the delegates.
2.5 The APX Commission endorsed the expenditure plan as contained in document 37 C/5 Add. 2 Rev., which it  recommended for adoption by the plenary. It was also agreed that the Executive Board’s endorsement of the proposal  that the revision of the constant dollar rate be postponed to the next biennium, when examining the budget for 2016-2017
2.6 These are the most important conclusions of the deliberations of the APX Commission on these items. On some  of these considerations, I invite you to refer to my oral report on the work of the joint meeting of commissions but let me  just briefly touch upon some of the exchanges that occurred among members of the APX Commission who sought  clarifications on a number of issues that pertained to the preparation of the budget and the expenditure plan.
2.7 While taking note that each major programme shall maintain its relative budget share in the expenditure plan,  several members wished to ascertain whether the $2 million shift from the Education Sector to the Culture Sector would  have a negative programmatic impact on Major Programme I. In his response, the representative of the Director-General  explained that the $2 million shift was necessary owing to the statutory obligations of the Culture Sector under the  various culture conventions. He further added that the $2 million reduction in the Education Sector’s budget would not  affect activities, since the shift was expected to be offset by extrabudgetary resources, referring in that respect to the  sharpened resource mobilization strategy presented to the General Conference.
2.8 Questions were also raised on the sharing of budget reductions between programme and non-programme areas  under the expenditure plan. In this regard, the APX Commission was reassured that the reduction of $33 million required  from the $536 million baseline by the Executive Board did not apply to major programmes. On the contrary, it was  explained that major programmes had benefited from an increase of $4.2 million under the $507 million expenditure plan.
2.9 The Commission also sought further information regarding budget reductions from non-programme areas and  whether those had been affected in equal proportion. In his response, the representative of the Director-General  explained that those non-programme areas had initially been imposed with a 14.8% cut but that a review of certain  bureaux and of the contractual obligations showed that those services would be non-viable under such severe cuts. This  analysis led to necessary adjustments, which explains why the expenditure planning at this stage includes a need for  further savings of $5.3 million. It was however noted that the Director-General remained committed to achieving these  savings in the course of the biennium from the non-programme areas.
2.10 Mr President, would you allow me at this instant to quote from a UNESCO General Conference text of old. “The  amount of the budget must be reduced and that total amount must be reduced by approximately $30 million. The  delegate insisted particularly on the necessity of reducing administrative expenses to a minimum”. This is from a  summary record of the Administrative and Financial Sub-commission of the General Conference of 1946. Perhaps some  things do not change.
2.11 As regarded the sharing of the budget allocations between Headquarters and field offices, the Commission  underlined the necessity to strengthen the field network, recalling the importance of the Organization’s action on the  ground, for instance, in post-conflict and post-disaster situations. The Secretariat noted that the draft document 37 C/5  foresaw an overall decentralization ratio of 38% and that that was preserved for the five major programmes under the  $507 million expenditure plan. It also observed that UNESCO’s mandate as a policy advice and standard-setting agency  needed to be kept in mind when considering budget shares between Headquarters and field offices. Finally, the APX  received assurances from the Secretariat that no specific budgetary cuts in the allocations for the running of field offices  were anticipated in the expenditure plan.
2.12 Although not directly related to techniques for the establishment of the budget, some members of the  Commission emphasized the importance of extrabudgetary fundraising and its rigorous management in the context of the  difficult regular budget situation facing UNESCO. In that regard, several delegates queried the potential impact of  extrabudgetary funds on staff paid under the regular budget and underlined the importance of the cost recovery policy.  The representative of the Director-General concurred with the views expressed but stressed that the objective of the cost  recovery policy, which the Secretariat intended to implement meticulously, was to charge the cost of staff implementing  extrabudgetary projects against the corresponding budgets, thus avoiding any subsidization of extrabudgetary budgets  by the regular budget resources. Finally, members of the APX Commission in expressing their appreciation of the budget  presented, reiterated their attachment to conducting further prioritization, evaluation and impact analysis, particularly in  the light of current financial restrictions faced by the Organization. I shall elaborate more on this later.
2.13 In further discussing item 4.2 “Consideration and adoption of the Draft Programme and Budget”, several  members of the Commission took to the floor to express their views on the proposals pertaining to the Participation  Programme. While expressing their satisfaction at the number of improvements made by the Secretariat during this  biennium, some members expressed reservations regarding the proposed reduction of requests from ten to seven, as  well as their electronic processing. In response, it was recalled that the proposed changes aimed at improving the  efficiency of the Programme while targeting priority groups, in particular African Member States. The representative of  the Director-General further recalled that the proposed changes were the result of a carefully negotiated consensus,  reached after intense discussions, and were made taking into account the interests of Member States. He further  emphasized that the move to electronic processing would be progressive. It is to be noted that the UNESCO Staff Union  addressed the APX Commission before the adoption of the draft resolutions.
2.14 Now on item 4.4 “Adoption of the provisional budget ceiling”, this was considered separately by the joint meeting  of the commissions of the General Conference on 6 November, which I referred to earlier, through the adoption of  paragraph 16 of document 37 C/6 Part II, wherein it is stated that the Director-General is authorized with respect to the
2014-2015 biennium to enter into commitments in line with the expected cash flow situation, namely within the limit of the  approved budget of $653 million or within the limit of the expenditure plan of $507 million. Mr President, while the current  and expected financial and budgetary situation can be termed as a crisis, I understand that the Chinese word for crisis is  in fact two characters and opportunity is one of them. This should also be the Organization’s trait of character.
2.15 The Commission took note of item 5.1 “Proposals by Member States concerning the celebration of anniversaries  in 2014-2015 with which UNESCO could be associated”, as per the approved agenda without debate. Subsequent to this,  communications have been received expressing support for some specific anniversaries, which I draw to the attention of  this plenary. I have been given to understand that these have the consent of the original proposers. Turkey and  Azerbaijan join and support the Islamic Republic of Iran’s proposal for the “600th anniversary of the compilation of  Maqased al-Alhan, work in the field of musicology”, which is proposed No. 46 in the adopted list. And the Islamic  Republic of Iran joins and supports Tajikistan’s proposal on the “600th anniversary of the birth of Abd ar-Rahman Jami,  poet, philosopher and humanist” which is No. 82 on the adopted list.
2.16 Now, in examining item 5.4 “Revision of the Integrated Comprehensive Strategy for Category 2 Institutes and  Centres, and establishment of category 2 institutes and centres under the auspices of UNESCO”, the members of the  Commission who took the floor expressed support for the proposal made by the Secretariat. The clear guidelines for the  establishment of category 2 centres and for their review and renewal provided in the revised strategy received  appreciation. While the growing number of category 2 entities can be seen as proof of Member States’ enthusiasm, it
360  was, however, noted that that situation can also create also a reputation risk for the network and cause concern for the  Organization. In that respect, it was felt that the timely proposed revision of the strategy and improvements it will bring in  terms of managing the network were of particular importance.
2.17 Let me turn now to item 5.15 “Implementation of the United Nations Global Plan of Action to Combat Trafficking  in Persons”, that was brought to the agenda of the General Conference at the request of Belarus with a number of  supporting Member States. All of the members who took the floor concurred on the importance of supporting the fight  against human trafficking. They took note in this regard of the current discussions at the United Nations General  Assembly on the implementation of the United Nations global action plan and wished to recall the existing legal  instruments in that respect, and in particular, the United Nations Convention against Transnational Organized Crime and  the Palermo Protocol that should be seen as the primary legal frameworks for the fight against human trafficking. When  examining the proposed draft resolution, several delegates requested assurances from the Secretariat that it would not  have any financial implication on UNESCO’s programme and budget, and minor amendments were adopted to that effect.
2.18 With regard to item 5.24 “Proclamation of 2016 as the ‘International Year of Global Understanding’”, the APX  Commission recommended the adoption of the draft resolution without debate.
2.19 Moving on to item 6.2 “Programme and timetable of work for the preparation and monitoring of the C/5 and C/4  documents”, in examining this item, members took note of the Director-General’s proposal for the organization of  regional consultative meetings. In that regard, it was emphasized that virtual online discussions could not replace face- to-face meetings entirely.
2.20 Item 6.3 “Definition of regions with a view to the execution by the Organization of regional activities”, was  considered by the APX Commission without debate and the request by Palestine and Anguilla to join electoral groups  V(b) and III respectively was endorsed by the members of the Commission.
2.21 In discussing item 6.4 “Follow-up to the United Nations Joint Inspection Unit (JIU) recommendations concerning  the methods of work of UNESCO’s intergovernmental bodies”, the debate focused on the ways in which the complex  issue of governance of the Organization could be improved. In that regard, while noting that governance was a wider  concept than the three governing bodies of UNESCO, members agreed on the need to introduce an effective self- assessment by the various intergovernmental bodies of the Organization. It was felt that the External Auditor, with his in- depth knowledge of the Organization and its specificities, should provide a common assessment framework for use by  those bodies and also be entrusted with the task of carrying out an external review of UNESCO’s governance. The  representative of the External Auditor, who was present during the debates, while pointing out that those tasks could not  include provision of advice to the Organization owing to its mandate and mission, informed members that the additional  duties would be duly accommodated in their work programme and did not entail any additional costs to the Organization.
2.22 With regard to item 6.6 “Report of the open-ended tripartite working group on the follow-up to the review of the  cooperation of the UNESCO Secretariat with National Commissions for UNESCO”, all the members who took the floor  commended the working group for the transparent and inclusive manner in which it had conducted its deliberations and  expressed unanimous support for the action plan contained in document 37 C/50. One member wished to express the  view that National Commissions were not the principal beneficiaries of the Participation Programme, as stated in  recommendation 14 of the action plan, but rather should be seen as channels.
2.23 Mr President, you will recall that the subject of the first meeting of the General Committee, held on 6 November  on item 7.1 “Amendments to the Rules of Procedure of the General Conference and the Regulations for the general  classification of the various categories of meetings convened by UNESCO”, had also been assigned for deliberation  within the APX Commission along with the Legal Committee. This item was first examined by the Legal Committee.  Thereafter the APX Commission focused on the issues relating to the methods of work of the Organization and, in  particular, amendments to the Rules of Procedure of the General Conference, with Member States placing particular  emphasis on the importance of the timely provision of verbatim records to Member States. Following the Secretariat’s  clarification concerning the amendments relating to the records of the General Conference, it is understood that the well- established practice of publishing unedited transcriptions now referred to as draft verbatim will be continued during future  sessions and that verbatim records of the 36th and 37th sessions duly corrected shall be produced and distributed as  soon as possible. At the end of the debate, members decided to transmit the proposed amendments to the Legal  Committee for a re-examination at a subsequent meeting.
2.24 Mr President, the Commission took note of item 10.1 “Report by the Director-General to the General Conference  on the contribution made to UNESCO’s activities by non-governmental organizations” without debate.
2.25 Let me now move to items related to the financial reports of the Organization. In discussing the financial report  and audited financial statements of UNESCO for the financial period ended 31 December 2011 and for the year ended
31 December 2012, members of the APX Commission commended the External Auditor of our Organization, Mr Didier  Migaud of France, for the high quality of his work. They also expressed satisfaction with his unqualified opinion regarding  both periods. Several members, however, expressed concern regarding the status of implementation of the  recommendations formulated by the External Auditor. In particular, the Commission emphasized the need for the  Secretariat to implement those recommendations which remained outstanding. Several members took the view that it  would be useful for the External Auditor to participate in future budget orientation debates. In that regard, the External  Auditor informed members that he was open to this suggestion with the double proviso that the assignment should fall  within his mandate and be clearly defined together with the General Conference.
2.26 On a query about a work plan of the External Auditor for the coming biennium it was noted that while it had not  been finalized, subjects such as governance, human resources, management and assistance to the Executive Board on
361  budgetary aspects would be considered. Members also queried how the financial statements could be approved by the  governing bodies on a yearly basis. The External Auditor observed that that would require changes in the way the  governing bodies currently functioned, for instance, with the General Conference delegating its authority to the Executive  Board while ensuring compliance with the Basic Texts of the Organization and the Financial Regulations. The  representative of the Director-General, for her part, undertook to consult the External Auditor and other United Nations  agencies facing similar issues.
2.27 Finally, clarification was sought concerning the treatment of arrears in assessed contributions that have led to  the implementation of a reduced budget and if those arrears were collected at a future moment. In particular, members  queried whether such a collection of arrears could be utilized towards funding the Organization’s long-term liabilities,  notably the after-service health insurance. In his reply, the External Auditor indicated that such income was treated in the  same way as other income of the Organization and could cover any deficit. The representative of the Director-General  undertook to present a specific document on the subject of the 194th session of the Executive Board. It would specifically  address the difference between the current regulations which assumed that arrears were not foreseeable and that the  expenditure was in any case incurred, compared to the current prudent approach with foreseen arrears and prudently  managed expenditure.
2.28 Mr President, in discussing item 11.3 “Scale of assessments and currency of Member States’ contributions”,  Commission members emphasized the importance of not changing the amounts of contributions during the course of the  biennium 2014-2015. It was also queried whether the scale of assessments could be altered during the course of the  biennium. The representative of the Director-General emphasized that the scale of assessments would most likely  remain unchanged for the duration of the coming biennium. Clarification was sought for the Organization in the event that  the value of the United States dollar weakened considerably. The representative of the Director-General replied that the  risks linked to currency fluctuations were partly offset by the split assessment system which required Member States to  pay in both dollars and euros.
2.29 In examining item 11.4 “Collection of Member States’ contributions”, discussions focused on two main issues,  namely the incentive scheme and the possibility of external borrowing. With regard to the incentive scheme, several  members of the APX Commission emphasized the importance of maintaining the existing incentive scheme to encourage  prompt or early payment of contributions. In that respect, concern was expressed regarding the proposal to present  options for the possible use of the $4 million available under the previous incentive scheme for the biennium 2010-2011.  Member States emphasized that while those resources were permanently presently entrusted to the Secretariat on a  temporary basis, the monies involved belonged to the Member States concerned and any use must have their explicit  and individual consent. The representative of the Director-General clarified that the intention was not to use the funds for  other purposes but to propose deferring their re-distribution in light of the current financial situation faced by the  Organization. The members of the APX Commission felt that the freeze of the scheme would be temporary and should  not be open-ended, and they therefore agreed to postpone distribution of the funds available until 1 January 2016.
2.30 As to the request by the Secretariat to be granted authorization to carry out short-term external borrowing during  the next biennium, several members requested additional information, notably with regard to the probability of having to  resort to such a facility and the related costs that Member States may have to bear should this happen. The need to  exhaust all internal borrowing options before resorting to external borrowing was emphasized. In her response, the  representative of the Director-General indicated that the Working Capital Fund should be sufficient to cover short-term  cash deficits based on the current cash-flow forecast and recalled that the Organization had not resorted to external  borrowing for the last 13 years. However, she underlined the importance of maintaining a legal facility to do so, should it  become necessary to cover short-term cash needs and recalled that the forecast was reliant on payment patterns of the  major contributors. The APX Commission was reassured that short-term borrowing was to be used as an overdraft  facility and that it was not intended to cover long-term budget deficits. Finally, it was clarified that the cost of interest that  could be incurred as a result of external borrowing would not be paid from the assessed contributions of Member States  but from the interest of income earned during the biennium.
2.31 As regarded item 11.5 “Working Capital Fund: level and administration”, the members of the APX Commission  endorsed without debate the recommendation of the Director-General concerning the authorized level for 2014-2015 and  the use of its resources.
2.32 Now on to some human resources matters. In considering item 12.1 “Staff Rules and Staff Regulations”,  members took note of the need for revised standards of conduct for the international civil service as well as amendments  to the Staff Rules. Approval was also expressed for the raising of the statutory retirement age of separation from 62 to 65  for new staff who became participants in the United Nations Joint Staff Pension Fund after 1 January 2014. In that regard,  it was queried whether the retirement age for current staff could also be extended to 65 years. The representative of the  Director-General explained that that was currently the subject of discussions at the General Assembly of the United  Nations. She also clarified that the Director-General had the authority to exceptionally extend appointments beyond  retirement age in case it appeared to be in the interest of the Organization.
2.33 The Commission took note of item 12.2 “Staff salaries, allowances and benefits” without debate, with members  noting the decisions taken by the Director-General since the 36th session of the General Conference. It was queried,  however, whether the General Conference was obliged to allow the Director-General to apply measures adopted by the  General Assembly and by the International Civil Service Commission (ICSC). In her reply, the representative of the  Director-General emphasized that failure to do so would result in considerable uncertainty with regard to conditions of  service.
2.34 The Commission also took note of item 12.3 “United Nations Joint Staff Pension Fund, and appointment of  Member States’ representatives to the UNESCO Staff Pension Committee for 2014-2015”, without debate. Six Member  States volunteered to serve as members: Brazil, Malaysia and Kenya as members, and Chile, Italy and Sudan as  alternates, respectively on the pension committee for 2014-2015.
2.35 Now on to item 12.4 “Report by the Director-General on the state of the Medical Benefits Fund (MBF) and the  introduction of the new governance structure”. Madam President, this item gave rise to an extensive debate in the APX  Commission. On the issue of the Medical Benefits Fund governance, you may recall that at the last session of the  General Conference, the Director-General was invited to review the governance of the Fund. That invitation was  reiterated at the 190th session of the Executive Board. In line with the standing rules, the Secretariat informed the  General Conference that the MBF Board of Management had established a working group to review the governance  mechanism, amend the MBF Rules and present them to the General Assembly of Participants for approval. However,  those were neither disapproved nor approved, thus a new governance structure could not be implemented at that time.  Member States sought clarification as to whether the General Conference had itself the authority to amend the Rules of  the Fund. The Legal Adviser explained that it was indeed within the prerogative of the General Conference, as it had  itself established the Medical Benefits Fund in 1948. It followed a general principle of law that a body that adopted a law  also had the authority to amend it. Two members queried if the Rules should not be allowed to go back to the General  Assembly of Participants for further discussion. As the governance issue had been discussed in previous General  Conference and Executive Board meetings, it was decided, considering the explanation by the Legal Adviser, that a  decision be taken. The Commission decided that the governance detailed in the rules proposed by the participants’  representative working group, as detailed in document 37 C/38 Addendum Part 3, be adopted. They did say that after  hearing the explanations of the differences in Addendum Part 3 were only editorial in nature compared to Part 1, which  had been drafted by the Working Group of the Medical Benefits Fund Board which included the participants’  representatives on the MBF Board. In a nutshell, Madam President, the Conference has the authority to take this  decision.
2.36 Members also sought clarification regarding the reduced number of staff and its impact on the Fund. The  representative of the Director-General said that the increase in the number of retirees, the longer life span of participants  and other factors such as the inflation of medical costs would negatively impact the Fund. Members asked for  clarification regarding the figure corresponding to the 1% of staff costs that the Director-General was proposing to set  aside to fund the After-Service Health Insurance (ASHI) liability. The Chief Financial Officer informed members that that  figure was estimated at $4 million. In that regard, members decided to take into account in future deliberations that the  provision of an additional 1% staff costs for the funding of the ASHI liability could be balanced by the impact of the  decision to provide a more realistic lapse factor on staff cost in budgets, as in the past the lapse factor had been  understated, leading to an overstatement of staff costs. Some members queried whether alternative solutions could be  foreseen to deal with the ASHI including the outsourcing of medical coverage. The representative of the Director-General  emphasized that the continuing lack of funding could have implications on the external audit opinion on the  Organization’s financial statements. As such, concern was raised at a possible qualified opinion should nothing be done.
2.37 Regarding the proposed new cost-sharing formula, members asked for clarification on the figures and  calculations presented in the document and its annexes as well as their implications on the current and future budget and  their impact on the short-term results as well as the long-term ASHI liability. In particular, members queried the  consequences of changing the ratio from 50-50 to 60-40 on Member States’ contributions to the regular programme and  on the ASHI liability. Concern was expressed that change in the contribution ratio would increase the ASHI liability of the  Organization. The Chief Financial Officer agreed to carry out a study to assess the impact on ASHI of a possible change  in the contribution ratio. It is to be noted that the UNESCO Staff Union was given the floor before the adoption of the draft  resolution and that the document they provided was considered and referenced in the decision recommended by the  Commission.
2.38 Madam President, now on to the last item, item 13.1, “Report by the Director-General, in cooperation with the  Headquarters Committee, on managing the UNESCO complex”. The Commission took due note of the clear and  comprehensive presentation by the Chairperson of the Headquarters Committee and proceeded to examine the item  without debate. The Commission also hailed the work of the Headquarters Committee Chairperson, Her Excellency  Lorena Sol de Pool, Ambassador, Permanent Delegate, of El Salvador, over the last biennium by acclamation.
2.39 Madam President, Madam Chair of the Executive Board, Madam Director-General, Excellencies and dear  colleagues, I would like to conclude my presentation by extending my gratitude to all those who contributed to the  success of the debates in the APX Commission. I would like to thank the Vice-Chairpersons, Ms Maha Ayoub from  Sudan, Ms Lacoeuilhe from Saint Lucia, Mr Nikolay Lozinskiy from the Russian Federation, Mr Mohan Krishna Shrestha  and his alternate, from Nepal. I would also like to express my deep appreciation to the distinguished delegate of Canada,  Ms Levasseur, who chaired the working group on voting rights. I would like to further express my gratitude to the  Rapporteur, the distinguished delegate of South Africa, Mr Yousuf Gabru, for his support in preparing this oral report.  And I would also extend my thanks to the Chairperson of the Headquarters Committee, Her Excellency, Madam Lorena  Sol de Pool for her presentation to the Commission.
2.40 Some Member States and indeed, at times, the Secretariat, were surprised by the pace of the discussions and  decisions in the APX Commission. I firmly believe that that was due to the excellent preparatory work that the Executive  Board members undertook, in turn assisted by the Ad Hoc Preparatory Group. Indeed, I suggest that future General  Conferences schedule two fewer days for the APX Commission, provided that the Executive Board Preparatory Group  still exists. And thus, that the Preparatory Group has become essentially self-funding. In addition, I suggest that new
363  items added to the agenda of future conferences should only be assigned to a commission once the proposer has  submitted a draft resolution in order that any programme implications may be assessed prior to their assignment.
2.41 Now in continuing to express my gratitude for their invaluable assistance, I would also like to extend my thanks  to the Director-General, the Deputy Director-General, the representatives of the Director-General, in particular, the  Assistant Directors-General (ADG) of the Bureau of Strategic Planning (BSP), the Sector for External Relations and  Public Information (ERI) and the Bureau for the Management of Support Services (MSS), Director of the Internal  Oversight Service (IOS), the Legal Adviser, the Director of the Bureau of Human Resources Management (HRM), the  Director of the Bureau of Field Coordination (BFC), and the Chief Financial Officer (CFO), the Secretary of the General  Conference, Mr Michael Millward, and the Deputy Secretary, Mr Luis Salamanques, as well as their team, who provided  us with the necessary support and deserve our thanks. My thanks also go to our interpreters and translators, conference  room clerks and technicians in charge of the support services on whom we depended for the smooth running of our work.  Thanks also to the document production unit - the dynamic pace of the Commission may have initially produced  challenges, but they certainly came through.
2.42 Mr President, it would be remiss of me not to pay tribute to my colleagues, the members of the APX Commission,  and their alternates for their incisive and insightful contributions. They were determined advocates for their position but  they also remained open to diverse and varied views and opinions. We held highly dynamic and spirited debates, with  pragmatic dialogue and a practical approach, which resulted in draft resolutions, supported by all delegations, and  enabled our Commission to reach consensus on all of the draft resolutions, which are now recommended to you in  document 37 C/70. I would like also to thank them for the support they provided me as Chair of the Finance and  Administrative Commission of the Executive Board over the last two years. In particular, I would like to thank the  President of the General Conference for our productive exchanges and his support for the work of the APX Commission  and wise guidance during the current session of the General Conference. Special thanks goes to the Secretary of the  APX Commission, Mr Sachin Bhatt and his team, Ms Eunice Ong, Ms Christine Hugoninc-Sayac, Mr Alexander Deganis,  Mr Andrei Chevelev and Mr Francois Langlois and our two volunteers, Ms Amal Ramach and Mr Sivasankar. Thank you  very much for your attention.
3. The President:   Thank you very much, Ambassador Sudders, for your comprehensive presentation. Are there any comments or  objections to document 37 C/70? Islamic Republic of Iran? Please.
4. Islamic Republic of Iran:   Thank you very much. Regarding the celebration of anniversaries in Member States with which UNESCO could  be associated and the proposal of the Islamic Republic of Iran entitled “600th anniversary of the compilation of Maqased  al-Alhan, work in the field of musicology”, I would like to say that we received the proposal from Tajikistan, and we wish  the APX Commission to take into consideration that we support the proposal. Thank you very much.
5.1 The President:   Thank you. Does anybody else have anything to add? If there are no objections, I shall assume that the General  Conference takes note of the report of the APX Commission and adopts the draft resolution contained in it, subject to the  decisions that the Conference may take on budgetary issues when adopting the Appropriations Resolution for the next  biennium? I see no objections. It is so decided.
5.2 I wish to congratulate and thank all members of the APX Commission for your most efficient work. Thank you.  Reports of the Legal Committee (37 C/76, 37 C/77, 37 C/78, 37 C/79, 37 C/80 and 37 C/81)  Rapports du Comité juridique (37 C/76, 37 C/77, 37 C/78, 37 C/79, 37 C/80 et 37 C/81)   Informe del Comité Jurídico (37 C/76, 37 C/77, 37 C/78, 37 C/79, 37 C/80 y 37 C/81)   Доклад Юридического комитета   )٨١م/٣٧و ٨٠م/٣٧و ٧٩م/٣٧و ٧٨م/٣٧و ٧٧م/٣٧و ٧٦/م٣٧( رير اللجنة القانونيةاتق   法律委员会的报告
6. The President:   Ladies and gentlemen, we will now examine the reports of the Legal Committee, which are contained in  documents 37 C/76, 77, 78, 79, 80 and 81. Ambassador Fazelly of Afghanistan, who was chairing this committee, will  now present the document. Please, you have the floor, Ambassador.
7.1 M. Fazelly (Afghanistan) (Président du Comité juridique) :   Merci, Madame la Présidente. Je voudrais d’abord saluer Monsieur le Président de la Conférence générale,  Madame la Directrice générale, Madame la Présidente du Conseil exécutif et mes distingués collègues et chers amis. Je  vais être beaucoup plus bref que Monsieur l’Ambassadeur Sudders. Je vais aussi opter pour un mode de présentation  un peu différent, ce qui est peut-être chez moi une habitude de longue date. Dans le rapport que j’ai le plaisir de vous  présenter, j’aborderai en effet sous trois angles le compte rendu des deux réunions tenues par le Comité juridique les 6  et 15 novembre. Je passerai d’abord en revue les points traités par le Comité. Ensuite, j’évoquerai le débat suscité par  les décisions prises par le Comité juridique. En conclusion, je m’interrogerai sur la nature, le fonctionnement et  l’avenir du Comité juridique.
7.2 Voici les points de l’ordre du jour qui ont été examinés par le Comité juridique : points 4.2, 9.1, 9.2, 9.3, 7.2 et
7.1. J’entre maintenant dans le détail. Le point 4.2 concerne les projets de résolution tendant à l’adoption  d’amendements au Projet de programme et de budget pour 2014-2017. Il s’agissait de déterminer si ces projets
364  respectaient bien les critères de recevabilité requis. Un seul appel a été examiné, en présence de la représentante du  pays concerné, en l’occurrence la République de Chypre. En application des règles en vigueur, l’appel a été rejeté par le  Comité juridique. Le point 9.1 portait sur les mesures prises par les États membres en vue de la mise en œuvre de la  Convention et de la Recommandation de 1960 concernant la lutte contre la discrimination dans le domaine de  l’enseignement. Dans le même ordre d’idées, le point 9.2 portait sur la Recommandation de 1974 sur l’éducation pour la  compréhension, la coopération et la paix internationales et l’éducation relative aux droits de l’homme et aux libertés  fondamentales. Enfin, le point 9.3 traitait de la Recommandation de 1974 concernant la condition des chercheurs  scientifiques. Dans les trois cas, le Comité juridique a appliqué une démarche identique, invitant la Directrice générale à  lui transmettre à la 39e session de la Conférence générale un rapport de synthèse des réponses reçues des États  membres.
7.3 Je passe au point 7.2. Il portait sur la prorogation de la compétence du Tribunal administratif de l’Organisation  internationale du Travail, à Genève. Le Comité a décidé de le reconduire pour une période de six ans. Enfin, le point 7.1  traitait des modifications à apporter au Règlement intérieur de la Conférence générale et au Règlement relatif à la  classification d’ensemble des diverses catégories de réunions convoquées par l’UNESCO, à la suite de l’admission de la  Palestine comme membre de l’UNESCO et du remplacement d’« Organisation de l’Unité africaine » par « Union  africaine ». En guise de conclusion,  je dirais que seuls les deux derniers points relevaient du domaine juridique, ou  possédaient un caractère juridique.
7.4 Maintenant, si vous me le permettez, j’aborde la deuxième partie de mon exposé. Certaines des décisions  prises par le Comité juridique ont suscité des débats dont il me faut rappeler la teneur. S’agissant de la prorogation de la  compétence du tribunal administratif pour une nouvelle période de six ans, c’est-à-dire jusqu’au 31 décembre 2019, il est  à noter que l’UNESCO avait tenté, entre 1996 et 2000, de créer un mécanisme de recours de second degré, mais sans  succès. Il avait alors été décidé de renforcer le premier degré de juridiction en reconnaissant au Conseil d’appel le rôle  de première instance dans les conflits qui opposent l’Administration au personnel. Quant à la procédure pour le  traitement des projets de résolution tendant à amender le Projet de programme et de budget, le Comité s’est prononcé  en faveur d’une interprétation souple, ce qui est conforme à l’esprit de consensus tant recherché à l’UNESCO. Le  Comité a recommandé qu’un dialogue plus constructif s’établisse à l’avenir entre le Secrétariat et les États membres,  afin d’éviter qu’une simple erreur matérielle soit considérée comme un motif de rejet d’un appel. Eu égard aux points 9.1,
9.2 et 9.3, on ne peut passer sous silence l’importance du suivi des instruments normatifs que sont les conventions et  recommandations. Toutefois, si l’UNESCO n’est pas en mesure, en 2013, de faire le bilan de la mise en œuvre d’une  convention et de recommandations adoptées en 1960 et en 1974, il est permis de se demander si l’examen des rapports  de la 29e session de la Conférence générale permettraient de répondre aux questions qui se posent au sujet de la valeur  normative des instruments auxquels l’UNESCO se réfère.
7.5 J’en viens au troisième point de mon exposé, qui me servira de conclusion et qui est à mon avis le plus  important. Le Comité juridique a tenu deux réunions, toutes deux vivantes et animées de débats. Mais j’ai le regret de  dire que la deuxième réunion s’est tenue alors que le quorum n’était pas réuni – à ma grande surprise. La  réglementation de l’UNESCO en la matière est simple : si le quorum n’est pas réuni, le Président suspend la séance – à  mon avis, quand elle n’a pas encore commencé – et attend cinq minutes. Si, au bout de cinq minutes, le quorum n’est  toujours pas réuni, la réunion se tient quand même. Le texte normatif prévaut donc sur le consensus, et il est possible de  tenir en toute légitimité une séance sans quorum. C’est ce qu’a fait le Comité juridique. Cela dit, la question essentielle  est ailleurs. Pourquoi, à la deuxième réunion, le quorum n’était-il pas réuni ? Y a-t-il eu une désaffection de la part des  membres entre les deux réunions ? Si oui, quelle en était la cause ? En réalité, l’explication est la suivante : au cours de  la première réunion, la durée du mandat du Comité juridique – au-delà de la fin des travaux de la présente Conférence –  a été contestée. Des bruits circulaient, selon lesquels la deuxième réunion du Comité serait aussi sa dernière ; le mandat  des membres élus à la précédente session de la Conférence générale prendrait fin à cette occasion. En conséquence,  on en a déduit que ce seraient des membres élus à la présente session qui siégeraient, une fois leur nomination  confirmée, à la 38e session. Il leur faudrait en passer par une décourageante attente de deux ans pour siéger. C’est ce  facteur, ainsi que la complexité même de la situation, que l’Ambassadeur de la Slovaquie a invoqués pour expliquer, lors  d’une réunion du bureau, l’absence du groupe 2 du Comité juridique à la présente session. Cette absence a été  regrettée par le Comité, mais c’est la procédure en vigueur qui a été appliquée. En effet, la réglementation veut que les  membres du Comité juridique, une fois élus, attendent la session suivante pour être nommés et entrer en fonctions, ce  qui signifie que, entre deux sessions de la Conférence générale, le Comité juridique n’est pas habilité à agir, même si les  questions soulevées concernent l’application de résolutions prises à la dernière session en date de la Conférence  générale. Autrement dit, entre deux sessions, les délégations permanentes ne bénéficient pas d’un appui juridique. C’est  à la fois subtil, complexe et curieusement agencé. Pourtant, les articles 36, 37 et 38 du Règlement intérieur de la  Conférence générale, certes flous dans leur rédaction actuelle, ne se prêtent pas à l’interprétation qui en est faite. Il est  donc essentiel de remédier au caractère ambigu du libellé de ces articles et de mettre en conformité l’état de fait et l’état  de droit en réduisant la durée de la période durant laquelle le Comité est inopérant entre deux sessions de la Conférence  générale. À l’issue de la présentation de ce rapport oral, l’image que je garderai des deux réunions du Comité juridique  sera celle d’un organe éphémère – sitôt constitué, sitôt destitué. Pourtant, le Comité juridique pourrait rendre des  services s’il pouvait fonctionner entre les sessions des organes directeurs, surtout en cette période où des réformes sont  vivement souhaitées et régulièrement proposées par Madame la Directrice générale. Un Comité juridique qui  représenterait les délégations permanentes pourrait, si le besoin s’en faisait sentir, se rendre utile à l’UNESCO en  tentant de resserrer les liens entre le Secrétariat et le Conseil exécutif, ce qui est d’une importance capitale pour que  l’action menée par l’UNESCO soit couronnée de succès.
7.6 Voilà, j’en arrive à la fin de ce petit exposé, et j’espère que j’ai pu me faire comprendre – je me suis efforcé de  bien articuler. Je veux maintenant adresser mes remerciements à Madame la Conseillère juridique, à sa collaboratrice
365  Mme Dupuy Capdepon et à ses collaborateurs, qui m’ont considérablement facilité la tâche tout au long de nos travaux  comme pendant nos réunions. Je remercie aussi les membres du Comité juridique, et notamment le Rapporteur,  M. Eismann, représentant de la France. Mais c’est bien à l’ensemble des membres du Comité juridique que va ma  gratitude, car ils ont manifesté beaucoup d’enthousiasme lorsque la question de l’avenir du Comité a été examinée. Je  remercie aussi M. Salamanques qui, à diverses reprises, est venu nous éclairer en sa qualité de représentant de  Madame la Directrice générale. Enfin, je me dois de remercier, en notre nom à tous, M. Millward. Je vous remercie tous  de votre attention.
8. The President:   Thank you very much, Your Excellency, for your presentation. Are there any comments or suggestions on  documents 37 C/76 to 81? France, you have the floor, please.
9. France :   Merci, Madame la Présidente. La France tient à remercier les membres du Comité juridique pour l’excellent  travail qui transparaît dans les rapports qui nous sont aujourd’hui présentés. Seuls les rapports  écrits font foi pour nous,  États membres, et nous en saluons le contenu. Les autres appréciations et observations qui ont pu être faites étaient  l’expression de points de vue personnels, qui n’ont pas été validés par le Comité. Je vous remercie, Madame la  Présidente.
10. The President:   Thank you, France. Saint Vincent and the Grenadines, you have the floor, please.
11.1 Saint-Vincent-et-les Grenadine :   Merci, Madame la Présidente. Je voudrais remercier le Président du Comité juridique pour son excellent rapport  et pour tout le travail qui a été accompli par le Comité. J’ai juste une remarque concernant le rapport 37 C/81 – partie  consacrée à l’article 80, paragraphe 3. Je crois qu’il y a eu un malentendu et je voudrais juste rectifier ce qui a été dit à la  Commission APX. Je voudrais relire le paragraphe et apporter la modification convenue : « Les projets de résolution  ayant des incidences sur le budget ordinaire de l’Organisation doivent indiquer spécifiquement la partie et, le cas  échéant, l’axe d’action du Projet de programme et de budget dont les ressources seront prélevées ». Donc il faut  indiquer la partie du programme et budget qui est concernée : ce peut être la partie 1 ou la partie 3, et si c’est la partie 2,  il faut spécifier l’axe d’action. Si vous le souhaitez, je peux relire le libellé du paragraphe, tel que modifié : « Les projets  de résolution ayant des incidences sur le budget ordinaire de l’Organisation doivent indiquer spécifiquement la partie et,  le cas échéant, l’axe d’action du Projet de programme et de budget… », et en anglais :  (L’orateur poursuit en anglais)
11.2 In English, that is “Draft resolutions with financial implications for the Organization’s regular budget should  clearly identify the Part and, where appropriate, the main line of action of the Draft Programme and Budget from which  the resources should come”. Thank you.
12. The President:   Thank you, Saint Vincent and the Grenadines. Are there any other comments? Before we go on, is there any  support for the comments from Saint Vincent and the Grenadines? Do you agree with what she said? Saint Lucia, you  have the floor, please.
13. Saint Lucia:   Thank you, Madam President. I would like to support the amendment proposed by Saint Vincent and the  Grenadines. It reflects the decision of the APX Commission. Thank you.
14. The President:   Thank you, Saint Lucia. Brazil, you have the floor, please.
15. Brazil:   Thank you, Madam President. Like Saint Lucia, we would like to support the amendment. Thank you.
16. The President:   Thank you, Brazil. Canada, you have the floor, please.
17. Canada:   Thank you, Madam President. We support the amendment as well. Thank you.
18. The President:   Thank you, Canada. Grenada?
19. Grenada:   Thank you, Madam President. My delegation supports the amendment of Saint Vincent and the Grenadines.  Thank you.
20. The President:   Thank you. United Kingdom, you have the floor, please.
21. United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland:   Thank you, Madam President. The United Kingdom supports the amendment of Saint Vincent and the  Grenadines, which reflects the discussion in the APX Commission.
22. The President:   Thank you. Denmark, you have the floor, please.
23. Denmark:   Thank you, Madam President. The present text would seriously limit the authority of the General Conference to  make changes to the budget, so we strongly support the amendment by Saint Vincent and the Grenadines. Thank you.
24. The President:   Thank you. Netherlands, you have the floor, please.
25. Netherlands:   Thank you. I just have a question. What does “where appropriate” mean? If we understand it correctly, every  part of every programme and every activity will fall under a main line of action, so why add “where appropriate”? Thank  you.
26. The President:   I was going to ask Saint Vincent and the Grenadines to clarify, please.
27. Saint Vincent and the Grenadines:   Madam President. When we decide on a main line of action, we should specify where the resources come from.  In Part I and Part III, we do not have main lines of action. The main lines of action exist only in Part II, regarding the  programme. So when we identify the Part from which the resources should come, that does not mean that we can move  money from Part III or Part I, and when we want to move money from a programme in Part II, we should define the main  line of action. It could be a main line of action in the science programme or culture programme. The main lines of action  exist only in Part II. We therefore have to define the Part and the main line of action, if the resources come from a  programme in Part II. Thank you.
28. The President:   Thank you for the clarification. Netherlands, is that OK with you? Thank you. Poland, please, you have the floor.
29. Poland:   Thank you, Madam President. I wish to second the proposal made by Saint Vincent and the Grenadines and  supported by other countries. We support this strongly. Thank you.
30. The President:   Thank you, Poland. Peru, you have the floor, please.
(31) Pérou (traduit de l’espagnol) :   Nous appuyons également la proposition de Saint-Vincent-et-les Grenadines, dont la seconde intervention a été très  claire, exposant de manière précise le sens de cette proposition.
32. The President:   Thank you, Peru. Barbados, please, you have the floor.
33. Barbados:    Thank you, Madam President. Barbados would also like to support the amendment as proposed by Saint  Vincent and the Grenadines. Thank you.
34. The President:   It seems like we have consensus. Is anybody against the proposal? Jordan, do you still wish to take the floor?
35. Jordan:   Thank you, Madam President. Jordan supports the Saint Vincent and the Grenadines proposal.
36. The President:   Thank you. Lebanon, you have the floor, please.
37. Liban :   Merci, Madame la Présidente. Le Liban apporte son appui au projet d’amendement proposé par Saint-Vincent- et-les Grenadines. Merci.
38. The President:   May I conclude that the amendment is adopted? May I therefore assume that the General Conference takes  note of the reports of the Legal Committee and adopts the draft resolutions contained therein, as amended? I see no  objection. It is so decided. I thank the Chairperson of the Legal Committee.
367  Report of the Natural Sciences Commission (SC) (37 C/72)  Rapport de la Commission Sciences exactes et naturelles (SC) (37 C/72)  Informe de la Comisión de Ciencias Exactas y Naturales (SC) (37 C/72)  Доклад Комиссии по естественным наукам (SC) (37 C/72)   )٧٢م/٣٧ج) SCتقرير لجنة العلوم الطبيعية ( 自然科学委员会（SC）的报告（37 C/72）
39. The President:   Your Excellencies, the next item on our agenda for this morning is the report of the Science Commission. I  would therefore like to give the floor to His Excellency, Mr Philip Mjwara, who will introduce the report contained in  document 37 C/72. You have the floor, Sir.
40.1 Mr Mjwara (South Africa) (Chairperson of the SC Commission):   Madam President, Madam Chair of the Executive Board, Madam Director-General, Excellencies, distinguished  delegates, ladies and gentlemen, as Chairperson of the Natural Sciences Commission, it is my great pleasure to present  the conclusions of the Commission’s work to this honourable assembly.
40.2 First and foremost, please allow me to thank the members of the Bureau of the Natural Sciences Commission  for their valuable support, Vice-Chairperson Mr Axel Meisen from Canada, Mr Ervin Balazs from Hungary, Mr Iskandar  Zulkarnain from Indonesia, and Mr Khalid Al Ali from Qatar, and the Rapporteur, Mr Lucas Hernan Franco Godoy, from  Paraguay.
40.3 I also wish to pay tribute to the Secretary of the Natural Sciences Commission, Mr Peter Dogsé and to his  excellent team, Mr Giuseppe Arduino, Mr Julian Barbiere, Ms Alvina Chau, Ms Charlotte Nortey, Ms Susan Schneegans  and Mr Zhai Qijiang.
40.4 I should also like to thank the representatives of the Director-General, Ms Gretchen Kalonji, who is the Assistant  Director-General for Natural Sciences, Ms Wendy Watson-Wright, Assistant Director-General and Executive Secretary of  the Intergovernmental Oceanographic Commission (IOC), and Mr Hans d’Orville, Assistant Director-General for Strategic  Planning. Their clear explanations and productive exchanges with the Commission were most appreciated.
40.5 The Natural Sciences Commission began its work on Tuesday, 12 November and met four times in total. The  Commission’s work was organized around six agenda items and I shall now present the results of our work according to  the adopted timetable, which is also reflected in the written report.
40.6 Prior to the Commission’s examination of the first item on the agenda, the Chairperson of the Intergovernmental  Oceanographic Commission (IOC), Mr Sang-Kyung Byun and the Chairperson of the Intergovernmental Hydrological  Programme (IHP), Mr Johannes Cullman, took turns reading out a joint statement by the Chairpersons of the following  programmes: the International Basic Sciences Programme (IBSP), the International Geoscience Programme (IGCP), the  International Hydrological Programme (IHP), the Programme on Man and the Biosphere (MAB), the Management of  Social Transformation Programme (MOST), and the Intergovernmental Oceanographic Commission (IOC). I would like  you to remember these acronyms because I will refer to them in the rest of the report.
40.7 In their joint statement, the Chairpersons welcomed the key role identified by UNESCO’s Draft Medium-Term  Strategy to 2021 for harnessing science for sustainable development, including by strengthening the science policy- society interface in the context of the post-2015 development agenda. The Chairpersons fully associated themselves  with the recommendation by the UNESCO Executive Board at its 192nd session that all necessary measures must be  taken to ensure the effective functioning and accessibility of UNESCO’s international and intergovernmental scientific  programmes and the IOC. They promised to improve their programmes and outreach and to strengthen their joint  fundraising efforts.
40.8 The Commission was then invited to take note of the reports of the IBSP, IGCP, IHP, MAB, and IOC on their  activities in 2012-2013, as well as the report of the UNESCO-IHE Institute for Water Education.
40.9 Next to take the floor was Mr Hans d’Orville, Assistant Director-General for Strategic Planning (ADG/BSP). He  welcomed the commitment to fundraising expressed by the Chairpersons in their joint statements as being exactly what  we need at the moment. ADG/BSP recalled that the proposed zero nominal growth budget of document 37 C/5  amounted to $655 million and included a reduction of 155 posts. He also recalled the approval by the joint meeting of  commissions of a recommendation by the Executive Board in document 37 C/6 for a new budget allocation for Major  Programme II of $62,404,100. The budget allocated to the IOC had dropped slightly, from $12,028,000 to $12,026,000.
40.10 In her overview, the Assistant Director-General for Natural Sciences (ADG/SC) recalled that UNESCO’s  extensive science community included, in addition to science staff, the Abdus Salam International Centre for Theoretical  Physics (ICTP) and the UNESCO-IHE Institute for Water Education, which were two powerful resources for the  developing world. The science community also included about 40 category 2 centres, the Third World Academy of  Sciences, the national committees of the intergovernmental science programmes, over 300 UNESCO Chairs in science  and engineering, and powerful partners from the public and private sectors. The Sector had also been developing new  partnerships, one example being the Future Earth initiative.
40.11 She then shared her thoughts on areas in which UNESCO has been particularly successful in raising its visibility  over the past two years. They included the designation of UNESCO as a lead agency of the United Nations Secretary- General’s Scientific Advisory Body, and UNESCO’s cooperation with the United Nations Environment Programme
368  (UNEP), United Nations Development Programme (UNDP), and Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations  (FAO) in setting up the Intergovernmental Science-Policy Platform on Biodiversity and Ecosystem Services (IPBES).
40.12 She observed that despite budgetary cuts in the past biennium, the Natural Sciences Sector had remained very  active. It had intervened in Pakistan, for instance, following catastrophic flooding and identified groundwater reserves in  the drought-stricken Horn of Africa. The MAB Programme had made strides in developing transboundary biosphere  reserves and the Global Geoparks Network, which now included 100 members in 30 countries. It was important at the  current stage to formalize the relationship between UNESCO and the Global Geoparks Network.
40.13 She emphasized significant recent progress on the UNESCO engineering initiative and on strengthening science  education. She also announced the launch of a new series of country profiles in science technology and innovation policy  with a first case study of Botswana that had been presented two days previously.
40.14 Ms Kalonji went on to highlight the consequences for science of the $507 million expenditure plan. She recalled  that the budgetary ranking exercise by sector had resulted in a high priority for expected results in freshwater and ocean  sciences but a low budget priority for capacity building in the natural sciences, engineering, sustainable development,  and the geosciences – all key areas for developing countries in general, and for Africa in particular, which was  UNESCO’s highest priority.
40.15 Next to take the floor was the Assistant Director-General and Executive Secretary of IOC. She voiced strong  concern that the drop in staffing levels due to the suspension of the voluntary contributions from the United States  combined with the impossibility of compensating that from the reduced regular budget allocation proposed for IOC in the  expenditure plan, was threatening UNESCO’s leadership role in areas that included the ocean bio-geographic  information system, IOCARIBE, the Global Ocean Observing System (GOOS), and the Tsunami Early Warning and  Mitigation System in the Northeast Atlantic, the Mediterranean and Connected Seas (NEAMTWS). She observed that the  ranking exercise had rated IOC as a high priority, leading the IOC Assembly to use the allocation of 86% of fully-funded  document 37 C/5, ($10.3 million) as a basis for programme prioritization; that proportion had, however, dropped to 72%  ($8.6 million) in the expenditure plan. The IOC was working with BSP on a sharpened fundraising strategy but also  needed extra engagement from Member States.
40.16 Next to take the floor was the Youth Forum representative, Ms Besmira Uruci, who was the delegate of Albania  to the Youth Forum. Describing the Forum’s conclusion regarding science, she noted that strengthening science  technology and innovation were crucial for job creation in a green economy. There was a need to develop knowledge  and skills and to encourage women to take up careers in science and engineering.
40.17 A debate then ensued on items 4.2 and 5.5 of the agenda, namely the “Consideration and Adoption of the Draft  Programme and Budget for 2014-2017” and the “Conclusions of the Youth Forum” as regarded science. Fifty-three  delegates and two observers took the floor in the course of two meetings. Many delegates expressed concern that the  drop in resources would impair the performance of UNESCO’s scientific programmes and expressed the hope that a  solution might be found. A number of countries urged UNESCO to explore avenues for greater inter-agency collaboration  among scientific programmes with a similar mandate.
40.18 Several speakers voiced concern that the decrease in human and financial resources would affect support for  developing countries in general and to small island developing States (SIDS) in particular.
40.19 A number of countries stressed the importance of enhancing the basic and engineering sciences in order to narrow  the development gap. They highlighted the relevance for Africa’s development in particular of the International Basic  Sciences Programme and the international years of crystallography in 2014 and light in 2015. Several speakers made an  impassioned plea for greater access to energy in Africa where the lack of electricity or its unreliability was hampering  education, science and development in general. Several African countries thanked UNESCO for its assistance in  reviewing national science technology and innovation policies. They stressed the importance of creating viable  ecosystems of innovation to eradicate poverty, create jobs and foster sustainable development. Other speakers  highlighted the importance of strengthening the science policy-society interface and the need to grow bridges between  Western science and traditional knowledge.
40.20 Many Member States expressed their condolences to the Philippines, which had just been hit by the strongest  typhoon on record. Several countries observed that the tragedy confirmed UNESCO’s relevance in the field of disaster  and disaster-risk reduction.
40.21 The majority of speakers voiced their support for the IOC’s activities in ocean science, observations, early  warning systems, data and information exchange as well as capacity building. Many expressed concern that UNESCO  was losing its leadership role in those areas owing to the lack of resources. The importance of tsunami early warning  systems was stressed, including by speakers from small States in the Caribbean and Pacific regions.
40.22 Kenya stated that the IOC Sub-Commission for Africa and the Adjacent Island States (IOCAFRICA) played an  important role through the provision of policy advice and informed the Commission that it was seconding a professional  to IOCAFRICA.
40.23 Speaking on behalf of 16 Pacific island States, the Cook Islands informed the Commission that SIDS had begun  calling themselves big ocean sustainable States (BOSS). Priorities for Pacific island States included mitigation of, and  adaptation to, climate change, as well as legal training relating to climate change, disaster risk reduction and freshwater  security. A number of speakers highlighted the importance of the next phase of IHP, particularly as it concerned  freshwater security. Others stressed the key role played by UNESCO’s water-related centres and Chairs. Several  countries expressed appreciation for UNESCO’s stewardship of the International Year of Water Cooperation.
40.24 Member States welcomed the focus in document 37 C/5 on sustainable development and sustainability science.  Several speakers underscored the need for an integrated approach to problem-solving that called upon both the social  and natural sciences. Many delegates commended UNESCO for being entrusted with hosting the Scientific Advisory  Board by the United Nations Secretary-General and welcomed the Board’s interdisciplinary focus.
40.25 A number of Member States evoked the potential of UNESCO’s environmental programmes to contribute to the  post-2015 agenda. Many speakers stressed the contribution that biosphere reserves, geoparks and IOC made to  greening the economy. They praised the role that biosphere reserves and geoparks played in fostering local community  involvement and the necessary dialogue among scientists, policy-makers and communities. Several countries described  biosphere reserves as a powerful means of developing transboundary cooperation, protecting biodiversity and fostering  sustainable local development. Others highlighted the role of biosphere reserves as learning platforms for sustainable  development. A number of speakers also stressed the synergies between the MAB Programme and initiatives such as  Future Earth and the Intergovernmental Science-Policy Platform on Biodiversity and Ecosystem Services (IPBES).
40.26 Several speakers welcomed the recommendations of the Youth Forum. Some stressed the importance of  supporting youthful creativity by developing a culture of innovation. Others cited examples in their own countries where  university curricula were being developed to foster entrepreneurship and appropriate professional skills for market needs.  Technical and vocational education was also considered as being important to drive development. A number of countries  recalled the importance of respecting gender equality in related policies.
40.27 Two observers then took the floor, namely the International Council for Science (ICSU) and the World  Federation of Engineering Organizations (WFEO). They stressed the importance of international scientific cooperation,  such as within the framework of Future Earth and IPBES, and the key role that engineering played in sustainable  development.
40.28 At this point, the Science Commission took note of the Revised Operational Strategy for Priority Africa  (document 37 C/5 Add.3) and the Revised UNESCO Priority Gender Equality Action Plan for 2014-2021 (document 37  C/5 Add 4).
40.29 In his reply to the debate, the Assistant Director-General for Strategic Planning (ADG/BSP) indicated that the  IOC budget in the $507 million expenditure plan was consistent with the Revised Implementation Plan for document
37C/5 endorsed by the Executive Board (37 C/5 Add.2 Rev.). He stressed that, as a consequence of the Organization’s  financial crisis, resources were insufficient to respond to Member States’ needs not only in ocean sciences but also as  concerned the rest of Major Programme II. He therefore called for enhanced cooperation between the Secretariat and  Member States within a sharpened fundraising strategy, in order to overcome the funding shortage for many of the  expected results, including those of the IOC.
40.30 In their reply to the debate, first the Assistant Director-General for Natural Sciences (ADG/SC) then the IOC  Executive Secretary thanked the many Member States that had sympathized with UNESCO’s financial predicament and  expressed support for UNESCO’s scientific programmes. Both reaffirmed their commitment to cooperation and  interdisciplinarity. The IOC Executive Secretary cited the examples of IOC and IHP involvement in the Global  Environment Facility-funded (GEF) Transboundary Water Assessment Programme (TWAP), collaboration with the World  Heritage Centre (WHC) on marine spatial planning and, most recently, with UNESCO’s Education Sector on ocean  literacy. In reply to one Member State, ADG/SC summarized developments related to engineering, including UNESCO’s  partnership with Airbus. ADG/SC took the opportunity to clarify a point raised by another Member State during the debate,  confirming that the definition of freshwater security did indeed include the concept of sustainability.
40.31 At the end of the debate, the Commission examined the recommendations by the Executive Board on the Draft  Programme and Budget for 2014-2017, as well as three draft resolutions submitted by a Member State. The results of  our work are presented for your approval in the Commission’s written report.
40.32 I would now like to turn to the next item under agenda item 5.4, concerning the establishment of ten category 2  institutes and centres under the auspices of UNESCO. ADG/SC introduced nine of the proposals and the IOC Executive  Secretary the tenth. Without a preliminary debate, the Commission recommended to the General Conference that it  adopt the resolutions for the establishment of all ten proposed institutes and centres. The nine sponsors then took the  floor to elaborate further on the purpose of each centre or institute and its planned activities.
40.33 Item 5.6, on the proclamation by the United Nations of 2015 as International Year of Light was introduced by  ADG/SC, who said that a remarkable series of important milestones in the history of the physics of light were being  commemorated or would be commemorated in 2015, as noted in document 37 C/20. Nine Member States in total spoke  on the item, most of them with great enthusiasm. Some speakers expressed concern, however, at the financial  implications of an international year for UNESCO in the current financial climate. ADG/SC clarified the point by explaining  that an international consortium had been set up to oversee the Year, which included science museums, universities and  the private sector. The consortium had raised over $2 million thus far for the Year, meaning that UNESCO would not  bear any financial burden. One Member State asked that it be considered a governance principle to mention the financial  provisions for future international years in the documents submitted to Member States for approval. The Chairperson  assured Member States that BSP would be informed of its concern. The draft resolution was subsequently adopted  without modification.
40.34 I now turn to agenda item 5.10 “Renewal of the Operational Agreement of UNESCO-IHE Institute for Water  Education” with the Government of the Netherlands. ADG/SC introduced the item. She explained that the operational  agreement had been signed in 2003, then renewed in 2008 until December 2013, making it necessary to renew the  agreement. The principal element of the agreement was the commitment by the Government of the Netherlands to
370  provide an annual grant covering the Institute’s operating costs for 2014, 2015 and 2016, with potential automatic  extensions for additional periods of up to two years until 2018, subject to certain conditions set out in the agreement. A  recent evaluation of the Institute by UNESCO’s Internal Oversight Service (IOS) had confirmed the value of the institute’s  work. The 15 speakers who took the floor on the item commended the Institute on its work, without exception. Strong  support was expressed for the Institute by Member States, many of which thanked the Government of the Netherlands  and UNESCO for their respective roles. One country called the Institute “a shining light in the UNESCO family”. A  number of speakers recalled that many of their water professionals had benefited from postgraduate training at the  UNESCO-IHE Institute for Water Education. The draft resolution contained in document 37 C/54 was therefore approved  without modification, after which the Netherlands took the floor to reaffirm its dedication to the UNESCO water family.
40.35 I now turn to the last item on the agenda, item 5.7, of the Natural Sciences Commission, concerning the  UNESCO Global Geoparks Initiative. In her introduction to the item, ADG/SC retraced the history of the relation between  UNESCO and the Global Geoparks Network, which dated back to 2001. She informed the Commission that a number of  geoparks were under development in Latin America and Africa, in order to create a more balanced geographical  distribution. She recalled that the Executive Board, at its 191st session, had asked the Director-General to set up a  working group to undertake “further consultations on the proposed initiative and its programmatic and legal implications”.  She then expressed satisfaction at the degree of cooperation within the working group among the Secretariat, Member  States and the Global Geoparks Network.
40.36 A rich debate ensued, during which more than 30 Member States took the floor, some of them more than once.  The great majority of speakers voiced support for the Global Geoparks Initiative. They recalled the benefits of geoparks  for protecting geoheritage, building awareness of geohazards, local sustainable development, women’s empowerment,  research and education. Several speakers applauded the bottom-up approach of the Global Geopark Initiative at the  local level. Several African countries underscored the richness of their geoheritage or announced plans to create a  geopark. A number of speakers voiced concerns, however.
40.37 In her reply to the debate, ADG/SC remarked that the concerns fell into four main categories: (1) the need for  greater synergies between geoparks and other UNESCO sites, as well as with other scientific programmes, such as the  International Geoscience Programme (IGCP); (2) the financial issue, on which ADG/SC could confirm that the Global  Geopark Initiative was a cost-effective model with no additional financial implications for UNESCO; (3) the issue of  branding and quality control to maintain high standards; and (4) the need to expand the model to include countries from  all around the world, which was one of the Network’s main goals.
40.38 An amendment tabled by two Member States was debated at length, with the result that the draft resolution was  adopted with an amendment calling on the Director-General to report to the Executive Board at its 194th session on  possible ways to protect and strengthen brand recognition of biosphere reserves, World Heritage properties and  proposed UNESCO global geoparks.
40.39 The Commission’s fourth and final meeting began with an event that celebrated the International Year of Water  Cooperation, for which UNESCO was the coordinating agency. The one-hour event consisted of a number of  presentations by high-level speakers.
40.40 Madam President, this brings me to the conclusion of my oral report. I hope I have succeeded in capturing the  essence of the rich debates and the orientations provided by the Commission for the programmes of the Natural  Sciences Sector. Thank you for your attention.
41. The President:   Thank you, Your Excellency, for your presentation. My congratulations also go to you for a successful  chairmanship of the Commission. Are there comments? Netherlands, please, you have the floor.
42. Netherlands:   Thank you, Madam President. We would like to thank the Chairperson of the Science Commission for having  steered the debate in such an effective way and for this oral report. We would just like to make sure that the concern that  we expressed during the debates regarding the financial implications of the implementation of an international year, such  as the International Year of Light, does not only pertain to the financial implications because sometimes we tend to  suggest that there are not any because it is covered by the regular budget, which is the case. Our question, especially  pertaining to the operational consequences, concerned what it means in terms of activities, so that the Executive Board  and the General Conference may have an idea of how much work it will generate. This is not because we are worried  that it is not going to be possible to implement it, but on the contrary, we would like to make sure that it may be  implemented in the right way and that we have sufficient information about the means of implementation. That was the  concern that we wished to express by making these remarks. Thank you.
43. The President:   Thank you, Netherlands. It is noted. Are there any other comments? May I then consider that the General  Conference takes note of the report of the Science Commission and hereby adopts the draft resolution proposed in  document 37 C/72, subject to the decisions that the General Conference may take when adopting the Appropriation  Resolution for 2014-2015. Thank you. It is so decided.
44. The President:   Before we break for an early lunch, I would like to suggest that we pay a tribute to the President of the 36th  session of the General Conference, Ms Katalin Bogyay. The General Committee at its meeting this morning  acknowledged the wisdom and grace with which Katalin Bogyay presided over the conference and therefore
371  recommended that the plenary adopt the draft resolution contained in document 37 C/plenary DR.2. Dear colleagues, if  you so permit, I will ask the Secretary to read out the text of this resolution.  Tribute to the President of the 36th session of the General Conference  Hommage au Président de la 36e session de la Conférence générale  Homenaje al Presidente de la 36ª reunión de la Conferencia General  Выражение признательности Председателю 36-й сессии Генеральной конференции  الدورة السادسة والثالثين للمؤتمر العام ةإشادة برئيس   向大会第三十六届会议主席致敬
45. The Secretary:   Thank you, Madam President. The text reads as follows: The General Conference, Mindful of the fact that Her  Excellency Ms Katalin Bogyay concluded her term of office as President of the General Conference at the opening of the
37th session, Noting with appreciation her steadfast commitment to equality and solidarity among the Member States of  UNESCO, Acknowledging her untiring efforts to create harmony within the House through maintaining open channels of  communication among the Member States, and to promote gender equality, and the role of women in conflict resolution  and reconciliation,Recognizing her contribution to building trust between the different organs of UNESCO, and especially  between the Member States and the Secretariat, Recalling the importance she has attached to cultural diplomacy as the  tool for advancing UNESCO’s mandate around the world, Emphasizing the singular contribution she has made to  protecting and promoting cultural diversity, using art, poetry and music as means for bringing people together, Conveys  its high esteem and gratitude to H.E. Ms Katalin Bogyay for the invaluable services and contributions she has rendered  to UNESCO.
46.1 The President:   Ladies and gentlemen, may I take it that the General Conference adopts this resolution by acclamation?  (Applause)
46.2 It is so decided. Your Excellency, Katalin Bogyay, please, you have the floor.
47. Ms Bogyay (Hungary) (President of the 36th session of the General Conference):   Thank you, Madam President. Madam Chair of the Executive Board, Madam Director-General, dear Michael  Millward, dear friends, Excellencies, I would just like really to thank you for these wonderful words and it will stay forever  in the records. It was a real honour and privilege for me to serve this noble House and the Member States in the last two  years and I thank the Member States again for this opportunity. As you know, using cultural, science or sport diplomacy  has been a longstanding commitment in my life and I am intending to continue to do so. Although it was a very intense  period, it was a beautiful period and I enjoyed every moment of it. So thank you very much.
48.1 The President:   Ladies and gentlemen, the round of applause shows our collective appreciation of Katalin Bogyay’s leadership.  On behalf of all Member States, including many of you, who would prefer to take the floor personally, I wish to thank her  once again for her leadership. Your Excellency, Ms Bogyay, thank you very much.
48.2 Dear colleagues, we have thus finished our work for this morning. We will meet promptly at 3 p.m. this afternoon  to examine the reports of the ED Commission (Education) and CI Commission (Communication and Information). Please  be punctual. As you know we need to have a quorum in order to adopt these reports. Enjoy your lunch. This meeting is  adjourned.  The meeting rose at 12.00 p.m.  La séance est levée à 12 h 00  Se levanta la sesión a las 12.00  Заседание закрывается в 12.00  بعد الظر ١٢,٠٠ الساعة في الجلسة رفعت   会议于 12 时结束