1.1 The Temporary President (Ms Bogyay, President of the 36th session of the General Conference):   Madam Chair of the Executive Board, Madam Director-General of UNESCO, Excellencies, Ministers,  distinguished ambassadors, friends and colleagues, representatives of intergovernmental and non-governmental  organizations, members of the international media, ladies and gentlemen, I am pleased to welcome you to UNESCO, to  the 37th session of its General Conference. As President of the 36th session, and in accordance with Rule 28 of the  Rules of Procedure of the General Conference, I have the honour to preside over this inaugural meeting. I therefore  declare open the 37th session of the General Conference of the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural  Organization.
1.2  Before we start our official proceedings, we will have the traditional privilege of listening to the UNESCO choir  and orchestra. This year we celebrate the birth of Verdi. The great Italian composer was born 200 years ago, so the  orchestra and the maestro, Mr Jorge Lozano-Corres, have decided to perform “Va, pensiero”, the Slaves’ Chorus from  Nabucco.  (Musical interlude)
2.1 The Temporary President:   Ladies and gentlemen, Your Excellencies, dear friends. It is a great honour and privilege for me to be here again.  I remember very vividly two years ago when I was standing in front of you and I really felt the trust and the openness  coming towards me. Now I am standing here really to thank you for your collaboration and for this incredible two years  we have spent together here at UNESCO.
2.2 Now, ladies and gentlemen, this is an amazing House where we really celebrate diversity and actually I was just  told that today is the first day of the Arabic New Year. So I would like to say kull ’āmm wa antum bikhair, Happy New  Year. And, of course, besides welcoming the Chair of the Executive Board, the Director-General, all of the honourable  ministers and all the delegations, I would like to take this opportunity to welcome the representatives of my own country  of Hungary. It is a great honour and privilege for me to welcome the Minister of Foreign Affairs of Hungary, Dr János  Martonyi, the Political State Secretary of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Mr Szabolcs Takács, the Ambassador of  Hungary to France, Dr László Trócsányi, the Ambassador of Hungary to the OECD, Dr István Mikola, and of course, the  President of the Hungarian National Commission for UNESCO, Dr Miklós Réthelyi. Thank you very much for coming.
2.3 Your Excellencies, dear friends, first of all, I would like to thank my government and electoral Group II for  proposing me for this position, and the Executive Board and you all for electing me. As you encouraged me to do, I tried  to run the 36th session in a true, transparent manner and to serve as President in office for two years to represent and  communicate the universal values of this Organization. I have promoted the actions of UNESCO, and offered meeting  points for the Member States to enter into dialogue, to understand each other, and to honour and value each other’s  differences. Please allow me to give some very personal thanks. Throughout these two years I had great support and I  would like to thank him in front of you all because it is not easy for a husband to support a wife in this journey. So I am  very thankful to my dear husband, Dr Tamás Lőrinczy, who is here with us, for his generous support. I take of course this  opportunity to report to you, the General Conference, the governing body of UNESCO, about my activities and the ideas  that have guided me through troubled waters, as well as the beautiful and meaningful events at Headquarters and all  over the world, to which you have invited me. These visits and engagements have helped me feel the real pulse of  different societies, to relate to people from all walks of life, to see first-hand the issues confronted by fellow human  beings around the world and to report on them to this House and build bridges between the Member States and the  Organization. These engagements have also helped me to promote UNESCO and the principles that it stands for all over  the world.
2.4 I would like to see, ladies and gentlemen, a UNESCO which really stands above political and ideological  divisions, a UNESCO that can set an example of universal consciousness and represent the alliance of different cultures,  languages and religions – an idea of a peaceful world governed by shared international norms and principles, and not by  power politics. We know that the evolution of geopolitics is cyclical. Powers rise, fall and shift. Changes occur in every  generation in an unending ballet. The power of politics is driven by different economic and social realities, but we human  beings – women, men and children around the world – are engaged in the same everyday struggle to love, to hope, to  learn and to create a better future for the coming generations. And UNESCO should be linked to that human face of the  world.
2.5 “You are not a drop in the ocean” sang the thirteenth-century Persian poet, Rumi, “you are the entire ocean in a  drop.” It is with such a mindset that we must look to our future, seeing every human being as an ocean of feelings, hopes  and aspirations. Diversity is the source of the strength and beauty of our planet, and for me, diversity is never a burden  but a real source of inspiration. From the very beginning, I directly went and asked you, my dear colleagues, about your  vision and expectations of the role of the President of the General Conference, and your answers pointed to the need for  a President with a mandate for leadership through consensus-building. You saw the President as the champion of the  spirit of the Organization. One response, offered by my very dear friend the Ambassador of India, resonated particularly
5  deeply in my conscience: “Just be the heart and the soul of this Organization”, he said. For me, the heart of this  Organization means the capacity to listen to each other and to look for joint solutions for a better future of humanity and  the planet. For me, the soul of this Organization means communicating with a sense of dignity, respect, compassion and  transparency, granting every member, rich or poor, strong or weak, large or small, the same attention and opportunities. I  have tried to demonstrate that under UNESCO’s roof everyone matters and matters equally.
2.6 Distinguished House, my education is of course grounded in European philosophies, but I am deeply fascinated  and inspired by the African philosophy, ubuntu. Ubuntu, which should be a real reflection of the heart and soul of  UNESCO, is based on the idea that: “I am human because I belong, because I participate”. A person with ubuntu is open  and available to others and does not feel threatened by the strengths and abilities of others. People with ubuntu have the  self-assurance that comes from knowing that they belong to a greater whole. They feel diminished when others are  tortured, humiliated or oppressed.
2.7 Your Excellencies, we ambassadors and Permanent Delegates representing our countries at UNESCO are  temporary occupants of this House, but what we do here will affect the global struggle for a peaceful tomorrow long after  our mandates. I sincerely hope that during the past two years, despite the mistakes inevitably made along the way, we  have set the right course for the Organization.
2.8 “Video et taceo” – I see, and don’t say anything – that was the motto of Queen Elizabeth I, the monarch of the  Tudor dynasty and of course this principle is also familiar to us diplomats in the modern world. But there are turbulent  times in life, and turbulent times have reshaped UNESCO since the 36th session of the General Conference, which  reminded me of a different notion of silence – that of a twentieth-century Hungarian writer Sándor Márai, who emigrated  from his native country in 1948, where, under the growing power of dictatorship, even the freedom of silence had been  lost. In his newly-discovered memoirs published under the title “I Wanted to Remain Silent”, he recognizes the occasions  when times call for speaking out to defend one’s core beliefs, and the times when silence is no longer a morally tenable  option. I have always been a communicator, even when the communication had to be cloaked in artistic expression, in  music, in poetry, in subtle reporting and hidden literary messages during my past life as a journalist. In the two years of  my term of office as the President of the General Conference, there have been occasions when I have made the choice  to speak frankly and openly in search of unity among all parties in difficult times. But in every situation, I have tried to  protect the human dignity of all participants. And you may remember, at times, I have also asked you to listen to your  hearts. I agree with the great Russian writer Dostoyevsky: “It is not the brains that matter most, but that which guides  them – the character, the heart, generous qualities, progressive ideas.” I believe in the heart because it is sincere, and  sincerity knows no barriers of age or nationality. Marc Chagall, an amazing painter who emigrated to France, once  remarked: “If I create from the heart, nearly everything works; if from the head, almost nothing.”
2.9 Dear friends, in two years you cannot do everything that you would like to do. And if you do not want to jump  from one point to another and stay on the surface, you have to dare to make your own choices and stick to them,  however difficult they may be. Building on the work during previous periods of my life, I decided to focus my Presidency  on three major themes of UNESCO’s mandate: one, promoting and celebrating diversity; two, promoting gender equality  and women’s role in peace and reconciliation processes; and using soft power – the combination of cultural, science and  sport diplomacy – to advance UNESCO’s major objectives.
2.10 Let me stop here for a moment at the second motive. I had the privilege of meeting, several times, Betty  Williams, an amazing peace activist from Northern Ireland, who was given the Nobel Peace Prize in 1977. She told me:  “Peace is action, not words”. As we gather here today to look at ways to make our world better for tomorrow, let us  acknowledge that the struggle to uphold the rights of girls and women in every corner of the world will be the moral  imperative of the twenty-first century. UNESCO, as the global house of culture, must lead the fight against the practices  and policies that use the excuse of culture, tradition or social norms to deny the female population internationally  recognized human rights. The potential of women for peace building and reconciliation has been widely recognized, but  formal peace-building and reconciliation initiatives continue to ignore or marginalize issues of gender, and women are  often denied access to the broad conflict resolution agenda.
2.11 Dear colleagues, I will forever cherish the time when all three major organs of UNESCO – the General  Conference, the Executive Board and the Secretariat - were led by women. For the first time in the Organization’s history,  this happened in October 2011, when the Ambassador of Russia, Her Excellency Eleonora Mitrofanova chaired the  Executive Board, the Director-General, the former Ambassador of Bulgaria, Her Excellency Irina Bovoka was the Head of  UNESCO, and I, the Ambassador of Hungary, was elected as the President of the General Conference. Three women  from electoral Group II – Eastern Europe – rich in cultural diversity and languages, dynamic in creative solutions, and  often troubled politically, a turbulent part of the world where we had to constantly adopt and adapt, where we had to learn  how to make our voices heard, and we had to learn over and over again how to live together as neighbours, as brothers  and sisters. We even had to find ways to live with our enemies and oppressors. Three women heading the major organs  of UNESCO, with Ms Alessandra Cummins from Barbados chairing the Executive Board for the past biennium, is a truly  powerful message to the world that UNESCO is serious about its commitment to promoting gender equality and  recognizing the abilities of women. More importantly, it is a message to hundreds of millions of girls and women whose  voices and hopes are currently unheard, that they too can aim high and realize their dreams.
2.12 Ladies and gentlemen, as Mahatma Gandhi said, “no culture can live if it attempts to be exclusive”. Promoting  and protecting cultural diversity, the diversity of languages, diversity of our nature and surrounding has been my lifelong  occupation. I have devoted my professional career to connecting people of diverse cultural backgrounds through the  universal language of music, art and communication, and I also promote the importance of interfaith dialogue. To “build  the defences of peace in the minds of men and women,” as we say in UNESCO, is the very clear essence of our
6  Organization. With our thoughts we can make the world. As Nehru said “peace is not a relationship of nations. It is a  condition of mind brought about by a serenity of soul. Peace is not merely the absence of war. It is also a state of mind.  Lasting peace can come only to peaceful people.” But in isolation, no matter how powerful, the ideas within individual  minds will not improve the lives of others. We must unite across the existing national, ethnic and social boundaries to  give our ideas a chance to cross-pollinate and spread for a truly global impact. And the most effective tool towards this  end is the soft power, I believe, of cultural, scientific and sports diplomacy.
2.13 Being a journalist, I always summarize my important journeys, so I summarized these two years in a book called  The Art of Cultural Diplomacy: Panorama of a Presidency. And if you are interested we would be very happy to send you  a copy of that.
2.14 I would now like, ladies and gentlemen, to commend Madam Director-General on her firm commitment to  leading this Organization through times of peril and for facing up to all the challenges; for finding supporters and new  partners in difficult moments; for making excellent choices of new Goodwill Ambassadors, artists for peace, and special  envoys. I especially salute her for her political sensitivity in listening and responding to 195 different views, hopes,  interpretations and suggestions. I would like to thank Ms Alessandra Cummins, the Chair of the Executive Board and all  its Members, for their untiring efforts to see through the implementation of the programme adopted by the General  Conference at its 36th session, and to prepare the future of this Organization. And, of course, my sincere gratitude goes  to both the Director-General and the Chair of the Executive Board for their collaboration and for sharing their views with  me. I thank the Deputy Director-General, Mr Engida, and all the Assistant Directors-General and the experts within the  different programme sectors and the hard-working staff of the Secretariat for the dedication and proficiency revealed on  every occasion of our professional interaction. I would like to thank all the personnel that ensure the smooth functioning  of the General Conference and the House: the event organizers, the translators, the room clerks, and the technical  assistants. Many of my friends and colleagues have offered vital assistance and inspiration during my Presidency. I must  acknowledge the expertise with which the staff of the UNESCO Secretariat has assisted me throughout this tenure,  enriching my vision with their multicultural perspectives. I am especially grateful to Michael Millward, who hails from  Great Britain, to Luis Salamanques, who comes from Spain. I cannot praise enough the intelligence, broad knowledge,  intellect and accomplishment  of my personal assistant, Irakli Khodeli from Georgia, and the intelligent, insightful, multi- talented and always supportive approach of my senior secretary, Catherine Thiounn from Cambodia, and the reliable and  dedicated work of my security officer and driver, Algerian-French Ahmed Abdelli. I consider them not only my dear  colleagues but my true friends. I am grateful to the department of security at UNESCO, which remains ever vigilant to  ensure our safety in this House.
2.15 As you know, Your Excellencies, ladies and gentlemen, I always go home to where my heart and soul hails from.  My own country, and the Hungarian culture, which is welcoming and inspiring, rural and sophisticated, multi-layered,  multi-ethnic, and represents different directions, but at the end protective of its roots and able to grow and develop, be  reborn all the time. So I would like to thank especially my smiling, hardworking, beautiful Hungarian team in the  Hungarian mission to UNESCO, never afraid of the workload and always ready for creative problem solving. And now  you, delegates, distinguished representatives, participants in the 37th session of the General Conference. The 37th  session of the General Conference will be a culmination of two years of fundamental transformations at UNESCO. The  blueprint for UNESCO’s future – its Medium-Term Strategy, its Programme and Budget, represents the product of these  two years, and reflects many lessons learned along the way. The future vision of UNESCO will be yours to consider,  review and adopt. I wish you success in the deliberations and decisions that lie ahead. And I would like to say that we  must remember that “not everything that is faced can be changed, but nothing can be changed until it is faced,” as  James Baldwin wrote. So let us face the challenges, ladies and gentlemen, together, united under this roof.
2.16 Your Excellencies, of course you know that I am very strongly connected to music, poetry, art, to fun and joie de  vivre. So I would not finish my speech without music, I am not playing the piano this time; I have invited some amazing  Roma musicians from Hungary. They created the gypsy band called Budapest Bar and I would like to invite them on  stage. I have seen them perform all over the world. We thought this would be a surprise for you after Verdi; it will be  linked to both Liszt and gypsy music, because as you know Liszt was totally inspired by Hungarian gypsy music. I was,  therefore, wondering whether the inspiration of this band came from Liszt’s music. Beforehand, I would like to say  goodbye to you all. Merci, spacibo, shukran, gracias, xièxie, madloba in Georgian, saum arkoun in Cambodian, because  of my dear colleagues, and köszönöm szépen in Hungarian. The Budapest Bar from Hungary. Thank you very much.   (Musical interlude)
3. The Temporary President:   Your Excellencies, they are always perfect and I think we have raised the spirit of the House. We will have a lot  of problems to discuss later, so I thought it would be a good start. I would also like to thank the delegation of Oman for  the beautiful present, because after raising the spirit with music, we now have “halwa” from Oman to sweeten the start of  the Conference. Thank you very much. Your Excellencies, ladies and gentlemen, I now have the honour to invite Ms  Alissandra Cummins, Chair of the Executive Board, to take the floor. Madam, the floor is yours.
4.1 Chair of the Executive Board (Ms Cummins):   Madam President of the General Conference, Madam Director-General, honourable ministers, distinguished  delegates, Excellencies, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the 58 Members of the Executive Board, and on my own  behalf as Chair of the Board, it is indeed a privilege and a pleasure to welcome all of you warmly to the 37th session of  the General Conference. This session of the General Conference is occurring during a time of profound change for our  Organization. The items you have before you in the coming weeks will have far-reaching implications for the life of  UNESCO for many years. As you deliberate over these matters, I would urge you to keep in mind two things. First, that
7  we recall the ideals underpinning the raison d’être of UNESCO. One of the most renowned lines from our Constitution  states that “since wars begin in the minds of men, it is in the minds of men that the defences of peace must be  constructed”. Indeed, the Constitution further declares that: “a peace based exclusively upon the political and economic  arrangements of governments would not be a peace which could secure the unanimous, lasting and sincere support of  the peoples of the world, and that the peace must therefore be founded, if it is not to fail, upon the intellectual and moral  solidarity of mankind”. These words capture the profound aspiration that the international community has ascribed to  UNESCO as a place of hope where true and lasting peace for the world could be born. More importantly, our Constitution  provided the blueprint of a coherent mandate for building a just and inclusive global society, through humanity’s shared  ideals in education, the sciences, culture and communication and information. It entrusted to UNESCO the sacred duty of  becoming the intellectual, ethical and moral compass of the international community – to be the conscience of the United  Nations system. This aspiration held true in the post-Second World War era of UNESCO’s founding, as well as  throughout the Cold War years, and it still holds true today. This is especially so because UNESCO’s fields of  competence are so critically needed to secure sustainable development. Experience has taught us that economic growth  is not sufficient to ensure long-term social progress. As we move forward to articulate and implement the post-2015  agenda, true sustainable development must be centred on people as social and cultural agents of change. Furthermore,  we must never fail to recognize that development is not a permanent outcome. Throughout humanity’s history, we have  often seen progress reversed by social strife, by conflicts and wars, and by poor governance. Thus, UNESCO, through  its comprehensive and inclusive approach, holds the key to sustainable development – it is the guardian of enduring  social evolution and human advancement.
4.2 Dear colleagues and friends, the second thing to keep in mind is that in the past few years, even prior to this  current biennium, the Organization has been confronted with maintaining a regular budget based on zero nominal growth,  essentially shrinking the real amount of funding available for UNESCO’s programme vis-à-vis inflation. This trend was  primarily driven by the need to respond to the financial pressures faced by Member States due to uncertainties within the  global economy. The Organization has thus been forced to meet its vast mandate and the ever-expanding expectations  of Member States with decreasing resources. It is for this reason that the Organization embarked on a reform agenda, in  order to find ways to do more with less. This path towards a more efficient and effective UNESCO has been heavily  tested this biennium due to the budgetary shortfall of almost a quarter of the Organization’s budget – a dire situation that  could potentially extend to the next budgetary cycle. In this, we have seen that there is a limit to how much more we can  ask of UNESCO while starving it of the needed resources to accomplish its mandate. The reform and restructuring of the  Organization that we take forward from this point on must not dilute the unique multidisciplinary core competencies of the  House. UNESCO cannot survive without the intellectual capacities of the Secretariat, nor can it hope to thrive without the  continued care and commitment of its staff. Indeed, it would be a total fallacy to think that it would be appropriate,  efficient or cost effective to call solely on consultants to realize UNESCO’s mandate. This would be absolutely  unsustainable, and would undoubtedly lead to the eventual and complete dissolution of the Organization. This is not,  ladies and gentlemen, what UNESCO wants.
4.3 We therefore have some difficult questions to ask ourselves during this General Conference. If we truly believe  that UNESCO is vital for holistic and sustainable development; that UNESCO is the intellectual, ethical and moral  steward of humanity; and that investing in UNESCO is an investment in lasting peace for future generations, are the  resources we are committing to the Organization sufficient for it to accomplish its mandate? What else could be done to  help UNESCO achieve the success we all hope for? How should Member States be rethinking their priorities for and  expectations of the Organization in the current financial reality? What can we assist the Director-General with in order to  achieve these goals and objectives? These are some of the issues that the Executive Board has addressed throughout  the biennium, and the recommendations and outcomes of its discussions have been transmitted to the General  Conference in the form of document 37 C/6 and Addendum and Corrigendum which I commend to your closest attention.  In this regard, I would like to highlight the importance of the inter-sessional work carried out by the Board over the past  two years, where it sought to be as inclusive as possible in its discussions, involving not only the 58 Members of the  Board, but also enabling enhanced participation by a majority of the Member States of the Organization. Therefore, the  recommendations of the Board before the General Conference are fruits of an extensive and inclusive dialogue amongst  Member States, and are not only limited to the views of the Board.
4.4 Distinguished colleagues, the world is still living with wars, illiteracy, abject poverty and discrimination. In many  parts of the world, women and girls are still being subjected to violence when they assert their fundamental right to  education. There is an increasing trend of targeting with impunity the common cultural heritage of humanity in armed  conflicts as a means of destroying the collective identities of peoples. UNESCO’s actions in responding to this threat –  and here I wish to congratulate the Director-General – have achieved critical results. In our time, therefore, the continuing  relevance of UNESCO’s mandate cannot be questioned, and indeed, must be reinforced. Only you, ladies and  gentlemen, can do that. This session of the General Conference is an occasion for Member States to renew their  commitment to the ideals of UNESCO. Now is the time we must seriously reflect, at the highest level of our governments,  on the depth of our collective investment in education, the sciences, culture and communication and information as  pillars of long-term human progress. Now is also the time for Member States to take to the United Nations General  Assembly the message that UNESCO matters for the world. Ladies and gentlemen, as you fulfil your responsibility as the  ultimate governing body of UNESCO, I should also like to indicate that the Executive Board remains at the disposal of  the General Conference until the end of its deliberations. On behalf of the Executive Board, I wish all of us a fruitful and  enriching 37th session of the General Conference. Thank you for your attention.
5. The Temporary President:   Thank you very much. Now we shall have the pleasure of hearing the Director-General. Madam Director- General, the floor is yours.
6.1 La Directrice générale :    Madame la Présidente de la Conférence générale, Madame la Présidente du Conseil exécutif, Mesdames et  Messieurs les chefs de délégation, Excellences, Mesdames et Messieurs. J’aurai la possibilité plus tard de vous  remercier, Madame la Présidente de la Conférence générale, tout particulièrement pour votre leadership, mais  permettez-moi encore une fois au début de cette session de vous exprimer toute mon admiration et ma reconnaissance  pour le travail que vous avez entrepris en faveur de l’UNESCO, de son mandat et de son agenda, ainsi que pour le  cadeau que vous nous avez offert encore une fois avec la belle musique de ce matin. Et merci à vous également,  Madame la Présidente du Conseil exécutif, pour vos paroles si fortes aujourd’hui qui soulignent l’importance de  l’UNESCO, l’importance de notre mandat dans une période d’épreuves pour notre Organisation.
6.2 Mesdames et Messieurs, chaque Conférence générale est l’occasion de renouveler notre attachement aux  valeurs qui nous rassemblent et de définir les moyens de les mettre en œuvre. Cette session sera décisive pour les  années à venir sur le plan stratégique et sur le plan budgétaire, dans la dernière ligne droite avant l’échéance des  Objectifs du Millénaire pour le développement et face aux multiples pressions qui pèsent sur la paix, sur les sociétés et  sur notre planète.
6.3 Le rôle de l’UNESCO est d’aider à libérer l’immense potentiel de l’intelligence, de la créativité et du dialogue  pour la paix et le développement durable. Deux choses m’inspirent et me donnent confiance. La première, c’est que  cette assemblée a prouvé par le passé sa capacité à changer le cours des choses. Le patrimoine mondial, le  développement durable, la diversité culturelle, la sécurité des journalistes et la question de l’impunité, ces notions sont  nées ici, à l’UNESCO, et il nous revient de perpétuer ce mouvement vers la dignité humaine et pour la paix. La deuxième,  c’est que l’UNESCO vient de prouver sa capacité à gérer une crise financière profonde sans perdre le cap.
6.4 L’UNESCO s’est adaptée et transformée, et dans de nombreux domaines, nous avons renforcé notre leadership  pour l’éducation de qualité et la citoyenneté, pour la formation professionnelle, pour la protection du patrimoine dans les  conflits, le soutien aux pays en transition, pour le lien entre la culture et le développement, le lien entre les sciences et  les politiques, pour la liberté d’expression.
6.5 Le chemin parcouru est considérable, et nous l’avons fait ensemble, le Secrétariat et les États membres. Nous  l’avons fait en étant guidés par une stratégie claire de la réforme, en nous concentrant sur notre valeur ajoutée. Nous  l’avons fait en restant fidèles aux valeurs qui ont inspiré les fondateurs de cette Organisation, au lendemain d’une guerre.  Ce sont les valeurs qui rendent l’UNESCO unique au sein des organisations internationales. Ce sont ces valeurs qui font  notre force. C’est la conviction que le développement de l’humanité passe d’abord par l’enrichissement de nos  connaissances et de ce que l’écrivain Stefan Zweig appelait « notre conscience créatrice ». C’est la conviction que la  culture, l’éducation, le partage des savoirs, la liberté de s’exprimer, nous définissent plus profondément que la politique  ou l’économie. Nous sommes les seuls à porter ce message humaniste avec une telle clarté, et le monde a plus que  jamais besoin de l’entendre.  (La Directrice générale poursuit en anglais)
6.6 Ladies and gentlemen, I stand before you today with a very clear message. UNESCO today is more in demand,  more relevant, more performing. And we must not relent, we must forge on to meet the full ambitions of our mandate, to  craft a single agenda for sustainability, for human dignity and development, to strengthen the multilateral order as the  only answer to the challenges facing the world, to aspire in every possible and I would say impossible circumstance, to  work to reach consensus which has always been the strength of this Organization, in passing important messages to the  world to end the violence of conflicts, in Syria and elsewhere, that weigh on the conscience of humanity as a whole, to  eliminate the poverty that afflicts billions, that holds entire societies back, that stains human dignity and tills the ground  for war, to respond to rising risks and natural disasters, to the pressures of climate change, to preserve the diversity of  life on this planet and its ocean. These are times of turmoil and turbulence, but also times of opportunity. We cannot  afford short-termism. We cannot afford to pursue exclusive goals. We are all living in a new age of limits – in terms of  development models, in terms of resources, in terms of our planet. No country is spared. No society can hope to stand  alone. We must stand together – on the foundations of shared values, on the rights and dignity of every woman and man.  I think this is the greatest renewable energy we have to craft solutions that are just, equitable and that are lasting and are  meaningful to all.
6.7 The world has changed enormously since 1945, but our Constitution is every day reborn and it must be  reinvented every day, because our message carries a timeless message of hope for a better world, a timeless message  of conviction in our ability to build it together. The challenges are high – they are always there – but we must be more  firm in our resolve, so much more is the power of solidarity, so much more is the power of the human mind. Speaking to  the Constituent Conference of UNESCO in 1945, Dr Wallace, the delegate of Canada, reminded his colleagues of the  vast possibilities of the human spirit and of the human mind – and I wish to open this General Conference with the lines  he cited from the great poet Dante Gabriel Rossetti: “Think and act; […] Unto the furthest flood-brim look with me; Miles  and miles distant though the last line be, And though thy soul sail leagues and leagues – Still, leagues beyond those  leagues, there is more sea. Thank you for your attention.
7. The Temporary President:   Thank you very much, Madam Director-General for your words. Ladies and gentlemen, after having listened to  these wonderful pieces of music and inspiring words by the Chair of the Executive Board and Ms Bokova, the Director- General, we are now moving to a more procedural part of this meeting. As you know, the General Conference  establishes, at the beginning of each session, committees, commissions and other subsidiary organs as may be required  in order for the Conference to conduct its business efficiently. This morning, we will elect two such committees.
8.1 The Temporary President:    First, ladies and gentlemen, we need to establish the Credentials Committee, which is in charge of verifying the  credentials of all delegations, representatives and observers to the Conference. In accordance with Rule 32 of the Rules  of Procedure, this Committee consists of nine Member States, elected by the General Conference on the proposal of the  Temporary President. After careful examination of the composition of previous committees, with due regard to fair  geographical distribution, and following consultations with a great number of delegations, I would like to suggest that the  Credentials Committee be composed of the following countries: Bahrain, Cameroon, Canada, Czech Republic, Ecuador,  Germany, India, Iran (Islamic Republic of), and Paraguay. Ladies and gentlemen, is there any objection to this proposal?  I see none. It is so decided.
8.2 I wish to congratulate the elected members and remind them that, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure,  the Committee is responsible for electing its own chairperson. I would also like to remind you that, following
192 EX/Decision 23 (IV), the Executive Board decided to recommend the election of Her Excellency Ms Hadidja Amin  Youssouf of Cameroon as Chairperson of the Committee. And I would like to invite the newly-elected members of the  Credentials Committee to meet at 12 p.m. in Room VIII.   Establishment of the Nominations Committee  Constitution du Comité des candidatures  Constitución del Comité de Candidaturas  Учреждение Комитета по кандидатурам  شكيل لجنة الترشيحاتت   成立提名委员会
9. The Temporary President:   And now ladies and gentlemen, we will establish the Nominations Committee. The Committee will determine and  submit to the Conference the list of nominations for the posts of President and Vice-Presidents, as well as proposals for  the composition of committees, commissions and other subsidiary organs of the Conference. According to Rule 34 of the  Rules of Procedure, the Nominations Committee consists of the heads of all delegations entitled to vote in the  Conference. The head of a delegation may designate another member of his or her delegation to attend meetings and  vote in her or his place. Representatives to the Committee may be assisted by another member of their delegation. The  Nominations Committee is responsible for electing its own chairperson, but I would also like to remind you that the  Executive Board, by means of 191 EX/Decision 22 (IV), recommends for this position Her Excellency Ms Assel  Utegenova, from Kazakhstan. And I invite the Nominations Committee to meet at 12 p.m. in Room IV.   Item 1.4: Adoption of the agenda  Point 1.4: Adoption de l'ordre du jour  Punto 1.4: Aprobación del orden del día  Пункт 1.4: Утверждение повестки дня  : اعتماد جدول األعمال ١,٤البند    项目 1.4: 通过议程
10. The Temporary President:   Now we shall now examine item 1.4, the adoption of our agenda, contained in document 37 C/1 Prov. Rev.  which was prepared by the Executive Board at its 191st and 192nd sessions. Allow me to remind you that, at this stage,  according to Rule 15, only new items of an important and urgent character may be added to the agenda. Any such  proposals would be considered by the General Committee tomorrow morning, before being put to the General  Conference for approval by a two-thirds majority vote. And now I would like to give the floor to Ms Alissandra Cummins,  Chair of the Executive Board, who will present the provisional agenda. Please, Madam, the floor is yours.
11. Chair of the Executive Board:   Thank you. Madam President, distinguished delegates, ladies and gentlemen. In accordance with the provisions  of Article V.B 6 (a) of the Constitution, the provisional agenda of the present session of the General Conference was  prepared by the Executive Board at its 191st session on the basis of a document submitted to it by the Director-General.  Subsequent to its discussions in this regard, the Board adopted 191 EX/Decision 21 (I). By the same decision, the Board  also decided that any other items submitted by Member States or Associate Members or by the United Nations in  accordance with Rule 9 of the Rules of Procedure no later than 100 days before the opening of the session, that is by
27 July 2013, should be inscribed by the Director-General on the provisional agenda which should then be  communicated to Member States and Associated Members no later than 90 days before the opening of the session, that
10  is by 6 August 2013. At its 192nd session, the Executive Board examined the revised provisional agenda of the 37th  session of the General Conference and by 192 EX/Decision 23 (I) retained the six supplementary items that were  submitted within the time limits set by Rule 12 of the Rules of Procedure of the General Conference. These items were  included in the supplementary list circulated to the Member States and Associate Members, in accordance with the  provisions of Rule 12, paragraph 3 of the Rules of Procedure, by a circular letter dated 4 October 2013. Madam  President, on behalf of the Executive Board, I have the honour to submit for adoption by the General Conference the  revised provisional agenda contained in document 37 C/1 Prov. Rev. Thank you.
12. The Temporary President:   Thank you very much Madam Chair of the Executive Board. Are there any comments ladies and gentlemen,  delegates? I see none. The agenda is adopted.  Item 1.7: Admission to the work of the General Conference of observers from international non-governmental  organizations other than those with the status of official partners of UNESCO, and recommendation of the  Executive Board thereon  Point 1.7: Admission aux travaux de la Conférence générale d'observateurs d'organisations internationales non  gouvernementales autres que celles bénéficiant du statut de partenaire officiel de l'UNESCO, et  recommandation du Conseil exécutif à ce sujet  Punto 1.7: Admisión en los trabajos de la Conferencia General de observadores de organizaciones  internacionales no gubernamentales que no sean las que colaboran oficialmente con la UNESCO, y  recomendaciones del Consejo Ejecutivo al respecto  Пункт 1.7: Допуск на сессию Генеральной конференции наблюдателей от других международных непра- вительственных организаций, помимо тех, которые поддерживают официальные и рабочие отношения  с ЮНЕСКО, и рекомендации Исполнительного совета по этому вопросу  : قبول مراقبين من منظمات غير حكومية، غير المنظمات المصنفة في فئة الشركاء الرسميين لليونسكو، لحضور أعمال المؤتمر ١,٧البند   العام، وتوصية المجلس التنفيذي في هذا الشأن  项目 1.7: 接纳享有教科文组织正式合作伙伴地位以外的国际非政府组织观察员列席大会会议和执行局就此问题的建议
13. The Temporary President:  Ladies and gentlemen, our next task is to examine item 1.7 of our agenda, concerning the admission to the work  of the General Conference of observers from non-governmental organizations other than those with the status of official  partners of UNESCO, and recommendation of the Executive Board thereon. The relevant working document is document
37 C/12. I am pleased now to invite once more the Chair of the Executive Board to present the Board’s  recommendations on this matter. Madam, the floor is yours.
14. Chair of the Executive Board:   Thank you. Madam President, Madam Director-General, distinguished delegates, ladies and gentlemen, in  presenting this item to the General Conference I wish to underline the ever-increasing relevance of the work of the  international non-governmental organizations and the important role they have consistently played on the international  scene. Committed actors of civil society, the expertise, visibility and effectiveness of international NGOs on the ground  no longer need to be proven. Their action and accomplishments are an affirmation of the deep-seated partnership that  exists between them and the international community, having as a common quest the strengthening of international  cooperation for peace and development. It is in this spirit that the Executive Board examined item 23, Part V, of the  agenda of its 192nd session relating to the admission to the 37th session of the General Conference of observers from  international non-governmental organizations other than those with the status of official partners of UNESCO and on  which the Board took a unanimous decision. Madam President, I therefore recommend on behalf of the Executive Board  that those organizations now listed in document 37 C/12 be invited to participate in the 37th session of the General  Conference as observers in the debates on specific agenda items relating to their fields of competence. Thank you.
15. The Temporary President:   Thank you very much Madam Chair of the Executive Board. I now wish to submit this recommendation to the  approval of the General Conference. As I see no objections, I will take it that this recommendation is adopted and thank  you very much.  Item 10.2: Request for the admission of Anguilla as an Associate Member of UNESCO  Point 10.2: Demande d’admission d’Anguilla en qualité de Membre associé de l’UNESCO  Punto 10.2: Solicitud de admisión de Anguila como Miembro Asociado de la UNESCO  Пункт 10.2: Просьба о приеме Ангильи в члены – сотрудники ЮНЕСКО  : طلب انضمام أنغيال كعضو منتسب إلى اليونسكو١٠,٢البند    项目 10.2: 要求接纳安圭拉为教科文组织准会员
16.1 The Temporary President:   Ladies and gentlemen, now we will examine the item concerning the request from Anguilla for admission as an  Associate Member of UNESCO. The request for the admission of Anguilla as an Associate Member of UNESCO is  presented in document 37 C/42 under item 10.2. The document includes a letter dated 25 April 2013 from the Minister of  Foreign Affairs of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, applying for associate membership on behalf
11  of Anguilla, whose international relations fall under the responsibility of his country. This letter is in compliance with  Article II, paragraph 3, of the Constitution, which states that territories which are not responsible for the conduct of their  international relations may be admitted as Associate Members by the General Conference by a two-thirds majority of  Members present and voting, upon application made on behalf of such territory by the Member having responsibility for  their international relations.
16.2 I now present to the General Conference the request for admission of Anguilla as an Associate Member of  UNESCO. Ladies and gentlemen, I do not see any objection. I therefore declare that Anguilla has been admitted as a  new Associate Member of the Organization. It is so decided.
16.3 This decision further enriches the cultural diversity of our Organization and I wish to extend my warmest  congratulations to Anguilla, our new Associate Member. It is my pleasure to give the floor to Ms Jasmin Phillip-Garraway  of Anguilla who will briefly address the General Conference. Please, Madam, you have the floor.
17. Ms Phillip-Garraway (Anguilla):   Madam President, Excellencies, distinguished delegates, it is a distinct privilege and honour for me to address  you on behalf of the government and the people of Anguilla. Anguilla is a small island of 33 square miles with a  population of 12,500 people made up of races and cultures from the four corners of the world successfully fused together  over the centuries. Consistent with UNESCO’s global values, here human interaction, cultural coexistence and spiritual  tolerance have been the key to the sustainable development and success of this small island and continue today to  distinguish it in the globalized world. There are few places other than Anguilla that are better equipped to demonstrate  sustainable development by a delicate balance to ensure man’s successful coexistence with his natural environment.  Anguilla is deeply committed to making a positive and constructive contribution to the work of UNESCO in its capacity as  an Associate Member by supporting UNESCO in fulfilling its mandate in education, sciences, culture and communication  and information as well as broadening its scope and concept of culture for development. Anguilla’s membership reaffirms  its commitment to the mission, ideals and goals of UNESCO and will enhance the profile of the Caribbean and Latin  America grouping with Anguilla’s unique cultural heritage, prehistoric natural heritage and important pre-Columbian  assets. We wish to engage fully and participate actively within the Latin America and the Caribbean grouping within  UNESCO. Anguilla thanks UNESCO and its global family of nations for welcoming it as an Associate Member. We look  forward to working closely with UNESCO’s Secretariat under the guidance and leadership of Ms Irina Bokova so as to  benefit from technical assistance and projects in conformity with its mandate in the United Nations system. We reaffirm  our strong commitment to working closely with the Secretariat and to advancing its mission, goals and fundamental  objectives for a sustainable future. Thank you for your indulgence.
18. The Temporary President:   Thank you very much, and congratulations Madam. I now to give the floor to Her Excellency Ms Alissandra  Cummins, Chair of the Executive Board. The floor is yours, Madam.
19. Chair of the Executive Board:   Thank you Madam President, it is a great pleasure and privilege for me, in my capacity as Chair of the Executive  Board and in my own capacity, to welcome a fellow member from the Caribbean to the UNESCO family, and especially  to the family of small island developing States (SIDS) within the Organization. I would like to take this opportunity to  stress that what Anguilla brings to the mandate of UNESCO is of particular importance to SIDS around the world. From  the Barbados Programme of Action, it is clear that the interdisciplinarity and interregional action offered through  UNESCO’s programmes is crucial for the sustainable development of SIDS. This need for a holistic approach within  SIDS will be discussed further during the upcoming Third International Conference on SIDS in Apia, Samoa, which would  be an occasion to identify priorities to be considered in the elaboration of the United Nations post-2015 development  agenda. Therefore, the admission of Anguilla as an Associate Member of UNESCO is very timely, and I look forward to  the vital contribution of Anguilla in this regard, as well as in bringing an additional voice and culture from SIDS to this  august House. Once again, I extend my warmest welcome and heartfelt congratulations to Anguilla. Thank you for your  attention.
20. The Temporary President:   Thank you very much and I now give the floor to the Director-General. Madam Director-General, the floor is  yours.
21.1 The Director-General:   Thank you very much Madam President, Your Excellencies, heads of delegation, it is a great honour for me to  welcome Anguilla to UNESCO as an Associate Member. This marks a new era of cooperation building on our shared  values of human dignity, equality and mutual respect, and on our common objective to craft a more inclusive and  effective multilateral order. UNESCO stands ready to support the aspirations of the society of Anguilla, the drive to  promote human rights, to foster quality education for all, to safeguard cultural heritage and the diversity of cultural  expressions, and including biological diversity, and equally, to mitigate the consequences of climate change.
21.2 Anguilla becomes an Associate Member of this Organization at an important moment, as States push towards  the Millennium Development Goals and the objectives of education for all by 2015 and as we shape a new global  sustainable development agenda to follow. We at UNESCO are convinced that particular attention should be paid to the  challenges confronted by the small island developing States as we move forward. In tackling these challenges, all States  will benefit from the experience and the insights of Anguilla. As Director-General, I look forward to this new opportunity  and I thank the authorities and people of Anguilla in the spirit of the national song: Noble and beauteous/She stands  midst the sea/Oh land of the happy/A haven we'll make thee/Let truth and right our banner be/We'll march ever on.  Thank you.
22. The Temporary President:   Ladies and gentlemen, I will suspend the meeting now because we have a special guest paying the General  Conference a visit this morning, Her Royal Highness Princess Marie of Denmark. Thank you very much.  The meeting is suspended from 11.40 a.m. to 12.45 p.m. to allow the President of the General Conference   and the Director-General to welcome Her Royal Highness Princess Marie of Denmark.  Her Royal Highness Princess Marie of Denmark enters Room I and is escorted to her place.
23. The Temporary President:   Your Royal Highness, Madam Chair of the Executive Board, Madam Director-General, Excellencies, ladies and  gentlemen, it is my distinct honour and great pleasure to welcome to UNESCO Her Royal Highness Princess Marie, wife  of Prince Joachim of Denmark. As many of you know, Princess Marie is the patron of honour of the Danish National  Commission for UNESCO. Her Royal Highness is also a benefactor and patron of a great many other national  organizations, institutions and foundations. The work of Princess Marie coincides with and reinforces the ideals of  UNESCO. Her benevolent actions promote the intangible cultural heritage, education and literacy, and sports. Her Royal  Highness is also the patron of cultural events, such as the Tønder international folk festival. She is promoting education  as the ambassador of the University of Southern Denmark, and patron of the Danish annual literary prize. We are  honoured to count Princess Marie among the true friends of the Organization and we are eager to hear her address to  the General Conference. Your Royal Highness, welcome back to Paris and welcome home to UNESCO.
24.1 Son Altesse Royale, la Princesse Marie du Danemark :   Madame la Directrice générale, Madame la Présidente de la Conférence générale, Madame la Présidente du  Conseil exécutif, Excellences, Mesdames et Messieurs, c’est pour moi un grand honneur de prendre la parole devant  vous en ce jour d'ouverture de la 37e session de la Conférence générale de l'UNESCO en tant que marraine de la  Commission nationale danoise.
24.2 Ayant suivi le travail de l'UNESCO pendant ces quatre dernières années, je n'ai jamais cessé d'être  impressionnée par l'immense travail entrepris par l’Organisation, à tous les niveaux, en vue de faire de ce monde un  endroit meilleur pour tous.
24.3 Sept milliards de personnes sont confrontées à des défis mondiaux, tels que le changement climatique, les  problèmes de santé et les inégalités sociales. Les économies deviennent de plus en plus internationales et exigent des  employés des compétences interculturelles. Il devient évident qu’assurer l'accès de tous à l'éducation ne suffit plus. Ce  n’est pas seulement en scolarisant tous les enfants qu’on leur donnera un avenir meilleur, mais c’est en misant sur la  qualité de l’éducation qui leur est dispensée, dont dépendront leurs chances dans la vie.
24.4 Reconnaissant le pouvoir de l'éducation pour transformer des vies et bâtir des sociétés plus durables, pacifiques,  saines et prospères, le Secrétaire général de l’Organisation des Nations Unies a fait de l'éducation une priorité. Son  initiative mondiale pour l’éducation avant tout vise non seulement à permettre à tous les enfants d’aller à l'école mais  aussi à améliorer la qualité de l'éducation et à encourager la citoyenneté mondiale.  (Son Altesse Royale, la Princesse Marie du Danemark poursuit en anglais)
24.5 For people to live together peacefully in diversity, children, young people and adults have to understand each  other’s way of living and value each other’s cultural traditions. Becoming a global citizen means also caring for the planet  and each other; it means developing a feeling of belonging to a common humanity. A crucial element of the education  that is needed today is the capacity to empower learners to take action in their communities to address twenty-first  century challenges, such as climate change, global health and social inequalities. Education has to be relevant to  peoples’ lives.
24.6 UNESCO has a very important role to play in fostering this type of quality education. One great example of how  this can work is the UNESCO Associated Schools Project Network, the world’s largest network of schools and one of  UNESCO’s most fruitful and sustained initiatives. Students from almost 10,000 associated schools in 180 countries take  part in innovative projects such as the creation of “ASPnet in Action for a Sustainable Future”, an interactive collaborative  online platform that enables and facilitates direct exchange between national coordinators, teachers and students across  the world. As patron of the Danish National Commission for UNESCO, I have on several occasions taken part in events  arranged by the Associated Schools Project Network in Denmark. Last year for instance, I witnessed a very special  project. Young people from 14 different countries from North America, Africa and Europe came together for a week in  Denmark and collaborated on a project called “The Common Future” focusing on the challenges of climate change. I was  amazed by their knowledge and creativity and not least by their way of cooperating – girls and boys working seriously  side by side, each contributing on the basis of their personal and cultural background.
24.7 Another amazing project was a great event last year at Kronborg Castle, one of Denmark’s world heritage sites,  where school children, boys and girls from Denmark and nine Arab countries met to discuss how to revive world heritage.   These two projects show that children and young people do not discriminate because of gender, race or religion. They  consider differences and multiplicity an asset and we need them to hold on to this perception. That is the foundation of  equality.
24.8 Global sustainability challenges call for governments to use their education systems to allow every human being  to acquire the knowledge, skills, attitudes and values necessary to shape a sustainable future. Education for sustainable  development (ESD) can shape the future we want and is necessary for helping to reach sustainable development goals.
13  Sustainability issues cannot be disregarded or pushed aside. They need to be addressed. The proposed global action  programme on education for sustainable development contributes to this.
24.9 Denmark particularly supports UNESCO’s action on climate change education. This education programme  specifically supports regions most vulnerable to climate change, Africa and small island developing States. The  programme helps young people understand the causes of climate change, adapt to the impact of climate change and  also empowers them to take action on climate change causes.
24.10 Global health is another critical challenge. Experts in southern and eastern Africa call for renewed commitment  on sexuality education and health services for young people: they all have the right to live full and healthy lives.  Education and health are mutually reinforcing. There are critical gaps in access to quality sexuality education and  services for young people. These young people need quality, gender-sensitive sexuality education preparing them for  puberty, relationships, and decisions about their sexual behaviour that can prevent HIV plus unintended pregnancy.  Parents and families are critical in this process. At the same time, we are convinced that it is through the trusted voices  of their teachers at school and other young leaders that youngsters will learn most efficiently.
24.11 But education alone is not enough. They also need access to essential health services, including contraception,  confidential HIV and sexually transmitted infections (STI) testing, HIV prevention, treatment and care, safe pregnancy  and delivery, and safe options in the case of unintended pregnancy. These services need to be delivered without  judgment and in a way that is accessible and affordable for young people. Along with comprehensive sexuality education  and sexual and reproductive health services, an environment should be created with zero tolerance of all forms of  violence - particularly gender-based violence.  (H.R.H. Princess Marie continues in French)
24.12 L’examen de ces différents défis mondiaux nous permet de dégager une conclusion, de tirer une leçon. C'est en  dispensant aux gens une éducation de qualité, répondant à leurs problèmes quotidiens, qu’on leur permettra de  construire un avenir meilleur, pour eux-mêmes, leurs familles et leurs communautés. La réalisation de tout autre objectif  de développement et de croissance dépendra de cette condition.
24.13 Je suis fière de faire partie de l’UNESCO. L'UNESCO est plus importante que jamais. Au nom de la  Commission nationale danoise, je puis vous donner l’assurance que nous ferons tout notre possible pour aider la  Directrice générale dans la réalisation de la noble cause à laquelle œuvre l’UNESCO.
25.1 The Temporary President:   Thank you very much, Your Royal Highness, for your inspiring words.
25.2 Ladies and gentlemen, we will meet for this afternoon’s session at 3 p.m. sharp. Please remain seated while Her  Royal Highness Princess Marie and her entourage leave the room. Thank you very much. The meeting is adjourned.  The meeting rose at 1.00 p.m.  La séance est levée à 13 heures  Se levanta la sesión a las 13.00  Заседание закрывается в 13.00  —بعد الظر ١,٠٠رفعت اسلسة يف الساعة    会议于 13 时结束