1. The President:   Good afternoon ladies and gentlemen, I declare open the sixteenth plenary meeting of the General Conference.  This afternoon, we will examine the reports of the Education Commission and of the Communication and Information  Commission. But first, we will decide where the General Conference will meet in two years’ time. I therefore invite you   to examine item 16.1 which concerns the venue of the 38th session of the General Conference. As you can see   in document 37 C/41, the Executive Board has already made a recommendation on this matter through
192 EX/Decision 23 (III). I would like to ask if the General Conference wishes to adopt the draft resolution contained in  paragraph 6 of document 37 C/41, which proposes that the 38th session of the General Conference be held at the  Headquarters of the Organization in Paris. Are there any comments on this proposal? I see none, thank you. It is so  decided.  Report of the Education (ED) Commission (37 C/71)  Rapport de la Commission ED  Informe de la Comisión ED  Доклад Комиссии по образованию (ED)   )٧١م/٣٧ج(ED)تقرير لجنة التربية  教育委员会（ED）的报告
(3.1) Mr El-Qallali (Libya) (Chairperson of the ED Commission) (translation from the Arabic):   Bismillāh ir-raḥmān ir-raḥīm (In the name of God, the Merciful, the Compassionate), Madam President of the General  Conference, Madam Chair of the Executive Board, Madam Director-General, Excellencies, heads and members of  delegations, ladies and gentlemen, the ED Commission of the 37th session of the General Conference has completed its  proceedings, and I have the privilege of submitting to you the main conclusions of our three days of intensive and constructive  discussions, which successfully covered 12 agenda items.
(3.2) Ladies and gentlemen, distinguished delegates, let me start by recalling briefly the opening of the Commission on  Thursday 7 November. In my opening remarks, I reminded the Commission that the period 2014-2017 is the threshold of a  critical period for global education, taking into account the 2015 deadline set for the education for all (EFA) goals and the need  to develop a new education agenda for the post-2015 period. I also highlighted the important role UNESCO should play in  leading the post-2015 consultation process. I made reference to the Youth Forum and the fact that young people aspired to an  education that responded to their needs and that school curricula should reflect those needs and allow an efficient transition to  the world of work and to an active social, political and economic life. This led me to draw a parallel with the movement for  change that swept the Arab region last year and which my country, Libya, also embraced vigorously, especially as concerns  developing education and training that will transform the young population into global citizens.
(3.3) Let me now turn to the first debate, on item 5.12 “Education beyond 2015”. The Assistant-Director General for  Education introduced the item and document 37 C/56, which outlines a proposed vision for the future education agenda, and  invited Member States to debate this proposal. He provided a brief overview of the status of progress with regard to the six  EFA goals – arguing that while significant progress had been achieved on some goals, EFA remained an “unfinished agenda”,  especially in terms of addressing issues relating to equity, quality and relevance of education. He underscored the need to  ensure that education is an integral part of the broader international post-2015 development framework. He recalled that the  goal of “ensuring quality education and lifelong learning for all by 2030” had emerged as a proposed overarching goal from the  consultations led jointly by UNESCO and UNICEF. He also expressed the need to translate that goal into measurable global  targets and related indicators, and that UNESCO would work on the development of a “framework for action”. He further  explained the various consultation processes that had been held thus far and those forthcoming, including regional  conferences which would lead up to the World Education Forum in May 2015. He reiterated his gratitude to the Republic of  Korea for hosting the Forum.
(3.4) The debate among Member States on item 5.12 was launched by a rich panel discussion with ministers and vice- ministers of education from Canada, Costa Rica, Kenya, Pakistan, Sudan, and two representatives of civil society institutions,  namely Education International and the Global Campaign for Education. They reflected on the post-2015 education agenda  from different national and civil society perspectives.
(3.5) The discussions brought out issues of equity, quality and relevance of education, in particular issues of teacher  training and curriculum relevance; the importance of technical and vocational education and training; higher education; gender  issues related to education; the importance of bridging the digital divide; ensuring sustainable financing for education; learning  in local languages; importance of adult education and lifelong learning and the challenging problem of drop-outs which  affected developing and developed countries alike. Following the panel discussion, the United Nations Special Rapporteur on  the Right to Education made a brief statement, in which he stressed the central role of education, emphasizing the right to  education as an essential human right and a prerequisite for addressing other development goals and for the exercise of other  human rights. He also underscored the need to preserve education as a public good.
(3.6) Some 49 Member States and 7 observers then took the floor to discuss this item, entitled “Education beyond 2015”.  The discussions may be summarized along the following lines: overall support was expressed for an overarching goal on  education, based upon the key principles of access, equity and quality in the perspective of lifelong learning; some Member  States requested the Director General to continue to consult Member States and relevant education stakeholders on the post-
2015 education agenda through various fora; some members expressed the need to ensure that sufficient attention be paid to  the unfinished EFA agenda within the expanded post-2015 education agenda. Some Member States also stressed the need  for flexibility within the framework of an overarching goal to enable responsiveness to the education priorities of each country
378  with respect to the diversity of their situations. Areas mentioned as needing continued attention were early childhood care and  education, skills development for the world of work; gender, literacy; quality and the role of teachers, including relevant  curriculum and pedagogy; global citizenship; the culture of rapprochement; higher education and use of information and  communication technologies in education. Mention was also made of the need to take account of all aspects of learning and to  build bridges between the different levels of education. Many Member States mentioned the importance of human rights and  sustainable development as the foundations for a post-2015 agenda, as well as a value-based approach to education. Several  Member States also reiterated the need to ensure sustainable financing for education, from both domestic and external  sources. They also highlighted the need for greater collaboration between civil society, governments and the private sector  and the importance of youth participation.
(3.7) In responding to the debate, the Assistant Director-General for Education welcomed the Member States’ general  support for an overarching education goal within the global development framework based upon the key principles of access,  equity and quality in the perspective of lifelong learning, while assuring Member States that the consultations initiated on the  post-2015 agenda would continue up to 2015. He reiterated in this regard that the proposed overarching goal would comprise  global targets that would be translated into national targets and actions.  He called on Member States to support education in  the global development agenda.
(3.8) The Commission then moved to approve the draft resolution contained in document 37 C/56. The document was  approved with amendments proposed by some Member States. The draft resolution (37 C/COM.ED/DR.1 Rev) submitted by  Zambia and 14 other countries, on the self-evaluation of EFA in sub-Saharan Africa, was also approved with minor  amendments. Following this approval, the Commission moved to the second debate, which addressed item 5.3  “Implementation of 36 C/Resolution 81 concerning educational and cultural institutions in the occupied Arab territories”. The  draft resolution proposed on this item was approved without debate.
(3.9) Ladies and gentlemen, let me now turn to debate 3, which included two items, namely item 4.2 “Examination and  adoption of the Draft Programme and Budget for 2014-2017” and item 5.5 “Conclusions of the Youth Forum” as regards  education. The item was first introduced by the Director of the Bureau for Strategic Planning. In his introduction, he recalled  the principle of the extended Medium-Term Strategy from six to eight years; the four-year document 37 C/5, which maintained  a biennial budget cycle; the inclusion of sunset clauses for programmes and structural adjustments to enhance efficiency,  effectiveness, focus and coherence.
(3.10) Prior to opening the debate on item 4.2, the Assistant Director-General for Education provided a brief analysis of  achievements and challenges faced by the Sector over the last two years. Some of the challenges included the reduced  regular programme resources allocated to Major Programme I (education), including some 50 frozen posts within the Sector.  Among the achievements, he mentioned examples of increased political attention to education mobilized at the global level  and support to accelerating progress towards the EFA goals at the country level. He also mentioned the successful  mobilization of some $235 million in extrabudgetary funding, attesting to the confidence placed in the Sector by several  donors. The introduction by the Assistant Director-General for Education was followed by the presentation of the  recommendations emanating from the Youth Forum by two youth delegates, from Netherlands and Norway.
(3.11) Fellow delegates, ladies and gentlemen, let us now turn to the wide-ranging debate on the Draft Programme and  Budget for 2014-2017 (37 C/5). Some 26 Member States and one observer took the floor to share their views on this item. The  debate may be summarized as follows: many Member States voiced support for the three strategic objectives of the Draft  Medium-Term Strategy for 2014-2021 (37 C/4) and the three main lines of action (MLAs) in the Draft Programme and Budget  for 2014-2017 (37 C/5), stressing in particular the important thematic areas of teachers, literacy, higher education and  technical and vocational education and training in particular to address the issue of the transition of young people to the world  of work. Mention was made of the need for a holistic approach to education addressing formal, non-formal and informal  education, with focus also on non-cognitive skills such as critical thinking and problem-solving. Several Member States  mentioned the importance of information and communication technologies as means to improving access to and quality of  learning. A few Member States regretted the lack of reference to primary and secondary education. Mention was also made of  the need to ensure the enhanced link between EFA and education for sustainable development (ESD). Two Member States  indicated that the EFA Global Monitoring Report, as a flagship publication, should have higher funding priority. The important  role that research and foresight should play in the post-2015 education agenda was also highlighted. Strong support was  voiced by several Member States for the Associated Schools Project network (ASPnet) and the UNESCO Chairs, which were  seen as important vehicles for promoting UNESCO’s work.
(3.12) In his reply to the debate, the Assistant Director-General for Education welcomed the overall support of Member  States for the Sector’s three strategic objectives in the Draft Medium-Term Strategy and specific support to the Sector’s three  MLAs for the next four years. He said that the priority areas suggested by speakers were well covered. He stressed that  UNESCO was pursuing a holistic approach to education, and he reassured the Commission that all levels of education would  be taken into account in the Organization’s work. He explained, however, the need for focus and prioritization in areas of  comparative advantage, as requested in the independent external evaluation of UNESCO and in Executive Board discussions.  He also acknowledged the comment pertaining to the importance of including more prominently research and foresight,  arguing for the need for the Sector to regain its intellectual function. He thanked the Member States for their appreciation of  the Associated Schools Project network (ASPnet) and the UNESCO Chairs. The youth representatives in turn thanked the  Member States for recognizing the role of youth, and in particular the focus on technical and vocational education and training  (TVET) with a view to youth employment. They also mentioned the importance of a global convention on higher education and  stressed that young people were partners for today and tomorrow.
(3.13) The Commission then moved to approve the draft resolution on item 4.2 as contained in Volume I of document
37 C/5. You will recall that five draft resolutions were submitted by Member States, as contained in document 37 C/8 regarding  Major Programme I. Of these five draft resolutions, 37 C/DR. 3 was approved as proposed; 37 C/DR.4 was not retained; 37  C/DR.21 and 37 C/DR 7 were approved as amended by the Commission, and 37 C/DR.8 was withdrawn by its author, as  explained in the written report of the Commission (37 C/ 71).
(3.14) Fellow delegates, ladies and gentlemen, we shall now turn to debate 4, which included the examination of three  standard-setting instruments and one item relating to the International Standard Classification of Education, (ISCED). The  three standard-setting instruments examined were the 1976 Recommendation concerning Adult Education, the 2001 Revised  Recommendation concerning Technical and Vocational Education and the proposal for a global standard-setting instrument on  the recognition of higher education qualifications. While the draft resolutions pertaining to the first two standard-setting
379  instruments were approved as proposed; the third draft resolution related to the proposal for a global standard-setting  instrument on the recognition of higher education qualifications raised some concerns, and was approved as amended by an  informal drafting group. The main issue concerned the need to undertake further comprehensive consultations with Member  States and relevant stakeholders in order to further elaborate on key issues relating to the establishment of such a convention.  They also stressed the importance to continue revising the existing regional higher education conventions as appropriate. The  draft resolution contained in document 37 C/53 pertaining to ISCED was adopted as amended by one Member State.
(3.15) Fellow delegates, I would now like to turn to debate 5, which covered two items relating respectively to the revision of  the statutes of seven education-related category 1 institutes and to the establishment of 2 new category 2 education centres.  The meeting started with presentations of reports on the 2012-2013 activities by the Chairs of the governing boards of the six  UNESCO category 1 institutes in education, namely the UNESCO International Bureau of Education (IBE), the UNESCO  International Institute for Educational Planning (IIEP), the UNESCO Institute for Lifelong Learning (UIL), the UNESCO Institute  for Information Technologies in Education (IITE), the UNESCO Institute for Capacity-Building in Africa (IICBA), and the  UNESCO International Institute for Higher Education in Latin America and the Caribbean (IESALC). As concerns the seventh  education-related category 1 institute, namely the Mahatma Gandhi Institute of Education for Peace and Sustainable  Development (MGIEP), its report was presented by the interim director of that Institute. The institutes’ presentations were  followed by a presentation by the Director of the UNESCO Santiago Office on the Regional Education Project for Latin  America and the Caribbean.
(3.16) The discussions that ensued showed the overall appreciation of Member States for the institutes’ work. The  proposed revisions to the category 1 institutes’ statutes were adopted by the Commission, with the exception of the revision of  the Statutes of IESALC. For IESALC, the Commission recommended that the General Conference delegate to the Executive  Board the authority to review these Statutes. I wish to recall that I made a thorough report to plenary on 11 November 2013 on  this specific agenda item. The second agenda item under this debate dealt with the proposals for the establishment of two  category 2 centres, one in Saudi Arabia – namely a regional centre for quality and excellence in education – and the other in  Egypt – namely a regional centre working on adult education. The proposals to establish the centres were supported by  several Member States and the item was approved without debate.
(3.17) Ladies and gentlemen, let me now turn to our sixth and last debate, which covered two items, namely item 5.19  “Follow-up to the United Nations Decade for Sustainable Development post-2014 ‒ Global Action Plan” and item 5.20  “Implementation of the International Plan of Action for the United Nations Literacy Decade (2003-2012) and specific  recommendations for the post-Decade period”. Some 25 countries and 1 observer took the floor on these two items. On item
5.19 (United Nations Decade for Sustainable Development – 2005-2014), many Member States reiterated the priority and  importance that they attached to the Decade and expressed their appreciation for UNESCO’s commitment to ESD in the past,  now and beyond 2014. Broad support was expressed for the proposed global action plan as follow-up to the Decade. Many  urged UNESCO to work proactively with UNESCO networks such as the Associated School Project network, UNESCO Chairs,  and category 2 centres. A few delegates reminded the Commission that synergies should be ensured between ESD and EFA  in the post-2015 agenda, and reiterated the importance of working transsectorally. A number of delegates also expressed their  thanks to Japan for hosting the World Conference on Education for Sustainable Development in 2014.
(3.18) In response to the debate, the representative of the Director-General thanked the Member States for their support for  the Global Action Programme for Education for Sustainable Development. He further informed the delegates that the  Secretariat would develop a roadmap on the implementation of the Global Action Programme from now until the World  Conference on Education for Sustainable Development, and in that process, the issues which had not been fully captured in  the proposal would be taken onboard. He further urged the Member States to give their support to the Global Action Plan  when it was submitted to the United Nations General Assembly in the autumn of 2014.
(3.19) With regard item 5.20 on the United Nations Literacy Decade (2003-2012) and specific recommendations for the  post-Decade period, many countries highlighted the importance of ensuring that literacy remained high on the post-2015  global education agenda, as literacy was a fundamental human right and was indispensable for human development. They  stressed the need for innovative ways, including through ICTs in education, to address the significant literacy challenges that  remained. They also stressed that UNESCO should pursue a holistic view of literacy which should be promoted as an integral  part of ESD and EFA. They requested UNESCO to continue to play a lead role in literacy and to strengthen major on-going  initiatives and promote global and regional collaboration. In his concluding remarks on this item, the Assistant Director-General  for Education recalled that literacy was one of the priority areas of the UNESCO programme for 2014-2017 (37 C/5), and that  UNESCO would take into account the elements mentioned in the debate when implementing the programme over the next  four years. For example, he underlined the importance of evidence-based advocacy to ensure that literacy was included in the  global post-2015 education agenda, and the need for new delivery mechanisms, including through ICTs. He referred to the  Belém conference in 2009, as a milestone for adult learning. He also encouraged Member States to pay greater attention to  marginalized populations, such as those with disabilities and the importance of maintaining the priority focus on gender. The  draft resolution on this item was approved without amendment.
(3.20) Distinguished delegates, ladies and gentlemen, I have now completed my presentation on the work of the ED  Commission. Allow me to conclude my presentation by congratulating the members of the Commission for a very participatory  meeting with intense and constructive debates, which, I believe, will now allow the Education Sector to move forward  constructively as it gears up to 2015 and the post-2015 period. I should also like to express sincere thanks to the Assistant  Director-General for Education, Mr Qian Tang, for his useful clarifications, which enabled the Commission to perform its work,  and to the Director of the Bureau of Strategic Planning and the Legal Adviser for the technical assistance they provided to the  Commission. Allow me also to thank the secretariat of the Commission for their devotion and professionalism. And first and  foremost, I thank you for your attention. As-salāmu ‘alaikum (Peace be upon you).   الرئيسة ٤,١  ضشترك على عر ك الوايف.
(4.1) The President (translation from the Arabic):   I thank you for your comprehensive presentation.  (The President continues in English)
4.2 Are there any comments or suggestions on document 37 C/71? South Africa, you have the floor please.
5. South Africa:   Thank you Madam President. I would like to extend a word of thanks to the Chairperson of the Education  Commission for his excellent report and also to express my appreciation for the hard work that has gone into this  document. The South African delegation was part of the Education Commission when we discussed the document  before us, or at least the decisions before us, and we concurred with those decisions. But in view of the fact that the  document has not yet been approved  in the Commission, and this is the first opportunity that we have had to consider  the report as a whole as Member States in a gathering such as this, we had an opportunity to look at some of the specific  elements of the report. One element which is not substantive at all relates specifically to an element of procedure,  namely the post-2015 development agenda. I am referring specifically to page 2 of the English version, paragraph 6 of  the draft resolution. In that paragraph there is a reference made inviting the Director-General to lead on the actions or the  outcomes of the conference that is to be held in the Republic of Korea, and with that we fully concur. We have no issue  with that, in fact it would be appreciated. But the part which does cause us a little discomfort is the reference to a  “common position” and linking that common position to the post-2015 development agenda. As a regional group, for  instance, Africa is currently negotiating a common position on the whole post-2015 development agenda, of which  education for us is extremely important. But that process is ongoing and we also have discussions still to come on the  post-2015 development agenda in New York. So, in a sense the reference to a “common position” in paragraph 6  preempts for us as Member States what we are going to do as Member States. We are willing to look at some kind of  amendment. We proposed yesterday in the joint meeting of commissions the deletion or the replacement of the phrase  “common position”, with giving the Director-General the opportunity “to promote the outcomes of this global education  conference in the context of the global development agenda post-2015”. So, as an agency UNESCO will promote it when  dealing with other agencies and we, as Member States, when we negotiate amongst ourselves; we will take this on  board and we will also promote it. But we find linking the two ideas problematic, and this is not an issue of substance.  The substance we fully concur with. And we fully concur with the rest of the content. Now we are willing to look at  possible amendments, either splitting the paragraph or replacing those words, but we do have a procedural difficulty  when it comes to the phrase “common position”. Let me be clear – we do not have any issue at all with the substance of  the paragraph. So Madam Chair, we came up with a proposal, which we made yesterday, to replace the words “as a  common position on education and as part of” with “in the context of the global development agenda”, which would free  the Director-General’s hand and UNESCO’s hand to promote the outcomes of the Korea conference. Thank you Madam  Chair.
6. The President:    Thank you South Africa. Does anybody have any comments regarding the amendment that he made, the  change of the wording? El Salvador please, you have the floor.
(7.1) El Salvador (translation from the Spanish):  Firstly, we would like to thank the Chairperson of the Education Commission for the detailed report which he has presented to  us today for approval. Regarding the proposal made by the South African delegate, we would firstly like to thank him and to tell  him that we fully understand his explanations. However, this issue was discussed in detail, although it was not given as much  time as we would have liked, in the meeting of the Education Commission, in which we tried to reach consensus regarding the  resolution in question.
(7.2) We believe that, with regard to the post-2015 education agenda, we must arrive at a common position independent  of the national and regional interests of each Member State. Therefore, if it is a problem for South Africa to adopt the wording  “a common position”, we propose instead the wording “the outcomes of this global education conference as an agreed position  on education”, as consensus is not the same as unanimity. Thank you.
8. The President:   Thank you El Salvador. Brazil please.
9. Brazil:   Thank you Madam Chair. Let me please start by congratulating the Chairperson of the Education Commission  on his report. Considering the suggestion made by South Africa, our concern is that if we change anything in this text,  which we have already agreed on during the work of the Education Commission, we could weaken UNESCO’s position  in advocating for education in the context of the post-2015 development agenda. We would like to hear from Assistant
381  Director-General Tang if possible. What is his opinion of these changes and what would the consequences be if we  change the wording of the text, because we really think that UNESCO must be there to advocate for education in the  name of its Member States in the context of promoting the outcomes of the global education conference which will take  place in the Republic of Korea in the spring of 2015. Thank you.
10. The President:   Thank you Brazil. The Netherlands, you have the floor please.
11. Netherlands:   Thank you. I would just like to make a suggestion. Would Member States feel comfortable if we replaced the  word “position” by “effort” in order to keep this part of the sentence “as a common effort on education”, so that we keep  this spirit of commonness? Thank you.
12. The President:   Thank you. China, you have the floor.
13. China:    Thank you, Madam President. The Chinese delegation agrees with the opinions expressed by the Brazilian  representative just now. The text of the draft resolution, which was discussed within the Education Commission, reflects  the views of various delegations and the efforts made by the Organization to contribute to the development of the post-
2015 education agenda, scheduled to be adopted at the United Nations summit in September 2015. If no common  position could be reached on education at the World Education Forum in spring 2015, the Organization’s commitment to  establishing the post-2015 development agenda would be compromised. As such, we maintain that the text of the draft  resolution proposed by the Education Commission be left as it stands. While we understand the concerns of the  representative of South Africa, we do believe that time constraints should not imply any excuse for delays; they should  instead be a reason for us to accelerate our work and reach consensus as soon as possible. Thank you.
14. The President:   Thank you China. United Kingdom, you have the floor please.
15. United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland:   Thank you Madam President. I would agree with the spirit of the South African proposed amendment. It is the  same Member States which meet in New York and discuss these issues there as discuss them here, and we need to be  careful that we are being consistent in our positions. I know that this was a long discussion and I was not part of it,  however I am slightly concerned that the wording as it stands is possibly open to misinterpretation. It might be seen to tie  our hands, because all of us as Member States participate in a range of different organizations and fora, for example,  regional fora. The European Union has discussed its position on the post-2015 goals, including those on education. I  know that other regional fora also have these discussions and I think we are slightly uncomfortable with something which  might be seen to tie our hands. At the same time, we respect the decision of the Commission and we do not really want  to reopen the debate on this. I am quite attracted, if others are amenable, to the proposal made by the Netherlands which  seems perhaps to better capture the spirit of the position that was taken in the Commission, but I do not know if that is  acceptable to others in the room. Thank you.
16. The President:   Thank you. Denmark, you have the floor please.
17. Denmark:   Thank you Madam President. We support the intervention and the proposed amendment by South Africa. I think  we should remember that we are talking about a conference which is one-and-a-half years ahead of us and it is  premature to talk about a potential common position on a document, on a direction, which has not been negotiated and  which is therefore not finalized, so we would be in favour of amending it. To those who think we should stick to the  wording from the Commission I also want to recall that this General Conference has done away with the adoption of the  reports in the commissions and put this to the plenary in the understanding that it is possible to actually make  amendments during the plenary adoption of the decisions from the commissions. So in this spirit I would support the  intent of the South African amendment but like others I find that the Netherlands proposal might be an acceptable  common ground for all of us and we would be ready to go along with that. Thank you very much Madam President.
18. The President:   Thank you Denmark. India, you have the floor.
19. India:   Thank you Madam President. It is very difficult at the end of a long process that began with the Ad Hoc Working  Group, has been through the Executive Board and the Education Commission and is now here in the plenary, to begin to  rethink, rework and re-nuance what we are doing. I think we were agreed at the Education Commission that we want  UNESCO to be at the high table, to be an active participant in the processes that will take place over the next year and a  half. It was a commitment that we wanted a collective body to make, not in detail, but in spirit and intent. On principle,  Madam President, I think we would oppose renegotiation; re-nuancing something that has already been through a long,  complex, participative process. We would support China’s position on this. Thank you, Madam President.
20. The President:   Thank you India. Bolivarian Republic of Venezuela, you have the floor please.
(21.1) Bolivarian Republic of Venezuela (translation from the Spanish):   First, we would like to thank and congratulate the Chairperson for his excellent report. We share the opinion of the  representative of El Salvador and support the remarks of the representatives of Brazil and China, among others.
(21.2) Madam President, we believe that this issue was sufficiently discussed in the Education Commission. Overall, the  spirit is to strengthen UNESCO’s leadership in the post-2015 education agenda. This is not at all premature; it is a political  commitment for a global priority that must be central to the concerns of the Organization and the entire international  community.
(21.3) We believe that it is very important to support the spirit of this paragraph. This commitment invites us all to declare  that education is a priority and an international emergency.  We therefore believe that further discussion should not be opened  on this issue and that it is very important, as stated by the representative of Brazil, to invite the Assistant Director-General for  Education to support us and confirm this position. We do not believe that we should reopen a discussion on something that  has been sufficiently discussed in the Education Commission and we urge Member States to reflect upon it. Education is our  highest priority and UNESCO, the leading organization in this field, must support it. Thank you very much.
22. The President:   Thank you Bolivarian Republic of Venezuela. Germany, you have the floor please.
23. Germany:   Thank you very much Madam President and congratulations to the Chairperson of the Education Commission  for the very good report. Germany supports the proposal which was made by South Africa for the same reasons as were  already expressed by Denmark. We also agree that it seems a bit premature now to already invite the Director-General  to promote the outcomes of a conference which has not taken place yet and that is why we support the proposal made  by South Africa. Thank you very much.
24. The President:   Thank you Germany. We will give the floor to France and then I think we can hear Mr Tang. Thank you France,  go ahead.
25. France :   Merci, Madame la Présidente. La Commission ED a mené un débat approfondi, comme cela a été rappelé. Je  voudrais, à cet égard, lire le paragraphe qui figure un peu plus loin dans le texte : « Reconnaissant le rôle de chef de file  de l’UNESCO dans le domaine de l’éducation, ainsi que de leader mondial de l’EPT ». La Commission s’est accordée  sur cette formulation. Eu égard à ce rôle essentiel, il ne nous semble pas souhaitable de paraître l’amoindrir en rouvrant  le débat, de surcroît ici, sans la présence des experts. Peut-être la proposition faite par El Salvador – qui exprime, me  semble-t-il, une position consensuelle plutôt qu’une position commune – constitue-t-elle la voie à suivre. Merci.
26. The President:   Thank you France. Mr Tang, you have the floor please.
27. Mr Tang (Assistant Director-General for Education):   Thank you Madam President. I think when we had a lengthy debate  in the Education Commission over this draft  resolution, the idea was to see the mandate which is given to UNESCO by Member States to lead this debate on the  global post-2015 education agenda. Hence the importance given to the conference which is going to take place in 2015  in the Republic of Korea. And I think the idea here in the text is to ask the Director-General to lead the results, the actions,  to have close collaboration with Member States and also to promote the outcomes. Here the “outcome” refers to the  consensus which will be reached during the conference. We believe this would probably be the same as what happened  in the year 2000 in Dakar, Senegal. At that time we set up the education for all agenda, which was then adopted as part  of the United Nations Millennium Development Goals (MDGs). So this, I think, is basically about the mandate given by  Member States for UNESCO to lead this debate. We hope the text originally agreed by the Commission as a “common  position” can be maintained at this conference and also the contribution to the global debate in New York. So we really  hope that this can be maintained, but of course in the end if you the Member States have a different opinion, that is your  decision. Thank you.
28. The President:   Thank you Mr Tang. As we heard from Mr Tang, do we agree with what he is suggesting or do we still insist on  some changes? South Africa.
29. South Africa:   Thank you Madam President, the intention was never to open a debate and we accept that there are very strong  views and positions on this matter but we must accept that there are strong views and positions on both sides. We are  quite comfortable with the leading role, we are quite comfortable with supporting the role of UNESCO and we have never  suggested otherwise. What we do have a difficulty with is creating a consistent and coherent approach to this across  organizations. We have to all acknowledge that our governments participate in various fora and therefore we need to  make sure that what we say here is actually going to be worth something and will be implementable. Now I think El  Salvador made a useful proposal. We would have been happy to delete this paragraph to be quite frank with you, but we  think that would be unnecessarily negative, so we were trying to work with it. If El Salvador is suggesting the word  “agreement” we would be able to go along with that. “Common” does have a certain connotation for us as a Member  State, and especially as a Member State that functions within a regional group where we have formal common positions.  That is why we find the current wording problematic. We do not have any difficulty with UNESCO being the champion of  education and, as we said, our President is a Member State Champion of the United Nations Global Education First  Initiative. We are fully committed to the whole concept and to the Organization’s role, but it must be appreciated that  Member States do function in a certain way and that needs to be recognized. So if for other delegations, El Salvador’s  proposal could work, we would be willing to go along with that. Thank you.
30. The President:   Thank you South Africa. As we heard, are there any comments about El Salvador’s amendment? I will give the  floor now to Denmark, please.
31. Denmark:   Thank you Madam President. Just in line with South Africa we would go along with an “agreed position” or a  “common effort” as proposed by the Netherlands, but if “agreed position” is the one we choose then that could also be a  compromise by those who proposed this wording in the first place; I think we could have common ground there.
33. The President:   Brazil.
34. Brazil:   Thank you Madam President. Firstly I would like to say that we would tend to agree with the suggestion made by  El Salvador, but I would first like to hear the opinion of the Assistant Director-General for Education Mr Tang about this  proposal and perhaps also the opinion of the Legal Adviser to see if it weakens in any way the possibility that UNESCO  advocates for education in the context of the post-2015 agenda. The second thing is that we would like as a country to  stress that the only universal intergovernmental organization that will advocate for education as a whole in the context of  the post-2015 agenda is UNESCO. So this is the Organization, this is our Organization, our intergovernmental  Organization which represents Member States all over the world. It is not the Organisation for Economic Co-operation  and Development (OECD), it is not the Union of South American Nations (UNASUR), it is not any other regional  organization. It is up to UNESCO to defend education in the context of the post-2015 agenda, under no circumstances  can we accept the argument that we will weaken UNESCO’s position and that UNESCO will be just another one of the  organizations discussing this issue. UNESCO is the leading organization and it is the only organization that represents all  of us in the world. Thank you.
35. The President:   Thank you Brazil. Nicaragua you have the floor please.
(36) Nicaragua (translation from the Spanish):  We support the consensus proposal submitted by El Salvador because education is central to the action of our Organization.  In this regard, we must continue working to ensure that education serves to eradicate poverty and promote development.  Thank you very much.
37. The President:   Thank you Nicaragua. Ecuador you have the floor.
(38) Ecuador (translation from the Spanish):   Ecuador supports the proposal by El Salvador, which allows us to further the discussion. We also  reaffirm that UNESCO must exercise international leadership with regard to the education agenda. Thank you  very much.
39. The President:   Thank you. Barbados you have the floor.
40. Barbados:   Thank you Madam President. While Barbados understands very clearly the position articulated by South Africa  and understands its concerns, we nevertheless support what Brazil and others have expressed about the fact that we  have absolutely no desire to run the risk of weakening UNESCO’s position as it presents the Member States’ views on  education as being of prime importance to us all. We would therefore support El Salvador’s position and use the term an  “agreed position” instead of “common position”. Thank you.
41. The President:   It seems like there is consensus in the room about El Salvador’s suggestion. Do we go along with the  suggestion of El Salvador? I think we have reached consensus. Are we agreed on the amendment of El Salvador? El  Salvador, please could you read it one more time.
(42) El Salvador (translation from the Spanish):   Thank you very much to those countries that have shown their support for the proposal by El Salvador and the  Republic of South Africa for being flexible. Naturally, we all want UNESCO to continue exercising its leadership in the field of  education. We also want the World Education Forum 2015, held in Korea, to achieve results through agreement thus enabling  the Director-General to continue leading UNESCO’s action in this field. What we proposed was an agreed position. Thank you  very much.
43. The President:   Very well, I will have the Secretariat read it out.
44. The Secretary:   Thank you Madam. The paragraph as amended by the proposal of El Salvador would read as follows: “further  invites the Director-General to lead the resulting actions in close collaboration with Member States and to promote the  outcomes of this global education conference as a consensual position on education and as part of the global  development agenda post-2015” etcetera. Thank you.
45. The President:   Denmark.
46. Denmark:   I am sorry, I am not a native speaker but to me “consensual” and “common” sound like the same word. What we  heard in the discussion was an “agreed position” which has a slightly different meaning so we would prefer in English an  “agreed position”.
47. The President:   Thank you Denmark. United Kingdom you have the floor.
48. United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland:   Just to say that I was listening initially to the English interpretation as it was translated when El Salvador made  their proposal. It came through in the English translation as “agreed position”. Thank you.
49. The President:   El Salvador, is that agreeable with you, the word “agreed”?
(50) El Salvador (translation from the Spanish):   If there has been a misunderstanding, it must be made clear that El Salvador did indeed say “consensuada” in  Spanish.
51. The President:   No comments, so we agree with “agreed”. If there are no more comments then may I take it that the General  Conference takes note of the report of the Education Commission and adopts the draft resolutions as amended  contained therein, subject to the decisions that the Conference may take on budgetary issues when adopting the  Appropriation Resolution for the next biennium? I see no objections. El Salvador, please, you have the floor.
(52) El Salvador (translation from the Spanish):   Madam President, what matters is whether what we have proposed in Spanish is reflected in the word “agreed” in  English and in the other languages. Otherwise, perhaps the Assistant Director-General for Education could help.
53. The President:   Thank you El Salvador. I am not even getting all the translations. Mr Tang, you can have the floor please.
54. Mr Tang (Assistant Director-General for Education):   Thank you Madam President. I think first of all I would like to thank all the speakers who have shown their  support for UNESCO to play the leading role via the Director-General. I think the idea is to really try to give UNESCO the  mandate to lead this debate and also to lead the setting-up of the global agenda. So in the end I think if everyone feels  comfortable, “agreed position” should be fine with us. Thank you.
55. The President:   Thank you Mr Tang. So I see no objections, are there any? France you have the floor.
56. France :   Merci, Madame la Présidente. Désolé, j’avais, je crois, levé mon chevalet avant votre intervention. Je veux juste  parler de la traduction en français, qui est l’une des deux langues de travail de l’ONU, et donc de l’UNESCO. L’espagnol  et le français sont des langues cousines, voisines, latines. Je ne saurais me prononcer sur l’anglais mais, s’agissant de  la traduction française, je me permets d’insister pour que « posición consensual » soit traduit par « position  consensuelle ». Merci.
57. The President:   Thank you France. South Africa you have the floor.
58. South Africa:   Thank you, Madam President. I think we were fairly close there and what we mentioned and what we agreed to  as a sign of flexibility and not trying to hold up the work was to agree with El Salvador. What we heard was “agreed” and  I think we also heard from the podium now that that will not present any difficulties for the Secretariat. I do not care what  the word is in the other languages. If in the English text it is “agreed” we can live with it. Thank you very much.
59. The President:   Thank you South Africa. Tonga, you have the floor.
60. Tonga:   Sorry for my late intervention but Tonga would like to retain the original paragraph, that is to keep the word  “common”. I believe that we are always proud to refer to UNESCO as the lead agency for education and we should stand  in solidarity with that. Thank you.
61. The President:    I thank you, but it seems like we had consensus on the word “agreed” in the English. No comments? It is so  decided. I would like to thank Mr El-Qallali for his successful chairing of the ED Commission. Thank you very much. I  also wish to congratulate and thank all members of the Education Commission for their commitment and efficiency.  Thank you.  Report of the Communication and Information (CI) Commission (37 C/75)  Rapport de la Commission CI    Informe de la Comisión CI  Доклад Комиссии по коммуникации и информации (CI)   )٧٥م/٣٧ج )CIاالتصاالت والمعلومات ( تقرير لجنة 传播和信息委员会（CI）的报告
62. The President:   Ladies and gentlemen, we will now examine the report of the Communication and Information Commission. I  am pleased to give the floor to Her Excellency, Ms Maria Laura da Rocha who will introduce the report of the CI  Commission. The report is contained in document 37 C/75. Your Excellency, you have the floor.
63.1 Mme da Rocha (Brésil) (Présidente par intérim de la Commission CI) :   Monsieur le Président de la Conférence générale, Madame la Présidente du Conseil exécutif, Madame la  Directrice générale, Excellences, Mesdames et Messieurs, c’est pour moi un honneur que de présenter ce rapport oral  au nom de la Commission Communication et information (CI), qui s’est réunie pendant deux jours pour examiner neuf  points de l’ordre du jour dans le cadre d’une série de sept débats. M. Anders Ahnlid (Suède) a présidé la Commission.  Les Vice-Présidents du Bureau ont été : M. Ludovit Molnar (Slovaquie), Mme Maria Laura da Rocha (Brésil),  M. Mohammed Sheya (République-Unie de Tanzanie) et M. Sami Ghazali de Tunisie. M. Davoud Karimi (République  islamique d’Iran) a fait office de Rapporteur.
63.2 Dans son allocution d’ouverture, M. Ahnlid a souligné le lien historique qui existe entre la paix, la démocratie, le  développement social et la libre circulation des informations et des idées, invitant les délégués à « convertir ces actifs en  savoir ». Cette allocution a été suivie d’observations liminaires faites par le représentant de la Directrice générale,  M. Jānis Kārkliņš, ainsi que par les Présidents des deux programmes intergouvernementaux de la Commission CI, à  savoir le Programme international pour le développement de la communication (PIDC) et le Programme Information pour
386  tous (PIPT). Pour sa part, M. Kārkliņš a mis en avant les résultats obtenus par le Secteur de la communication et de  l’information (CI) pendant l’exercice écoulé, notant les progrès accomplis puisque ce sont, au total, 32 657 226 dollars de  fonds extrabudgétaires qui ont été mobilisés, dont 19,4 millions de dollars recueillis par des bureaux hors Siège. Pour le  PIDC, M. Jyrki Pulkkinen a fait savoir à la Commission que l’assistance apportée aux médias par le programme avait  totalisé 3,2 millions de dollars au cours de l’exercice biennal précédent, 34 % des fonds étant allés à l’Afrique. Il a ajouté  que le Bureau du PIDC avait approuvé divers documents stratégiques pour rationaliser ses travaux. En particulier, il a  informé les délégués du lancement d’une nouvelle initiative spéciale destinée à promouvoir un « développement des  médias fondé sur le savoir ». De son côté, le Président du PIPT, M. Evgeny Kuzmin, a présenté l’approche intégrée  recommandée par le Programme pour l’élaboration de politiques fondées sur des données factuelles dans les domaines  de l’accès à l’information, de l’information pour le développement, de la préservation de l’information, des médias et du  cyberespace. À cet égard, il a appelé à intensifier la collaboration entre experts de pays développés et experts de pays  en développement.
63.3 Permettez-moi tout d’abord de résumer les points saillants des débats. Le premier a porté sur l’adoption du  Projet de programme et de budget pour 2014-2017, ainsi que sur l’examen des conclusions du 8e Forum des jeunes. En  préambule, le Sous-Directeur général pour la planification stratégique, M. Hans d’Orville, a présenté les principaux  éléments du débat, y compris le Projet de stratégie à moyen terme pour 2014-2021 (37 C/4), les priorités globales  Afrique et Égalité des genres et le plan de dépenses de 507 millions de dollars (37 C/5 Add.2. Rev.). En ce qui concerne  directement la Commission CI, il a expliqué que, par suite de la décision prise par la Conférence générale d’adopter  certaines recommandations faites par le Conseil exécutif dans le document 37 C/6, le budget du Secteur CI avait été  porté de 30 428 000 à 32 714 600 dollars. Dans ses propres observations liminaires, Monsieur Kārkliņš a réaffirmé la  détermination du Secteur à promouvoir des médias libres, indépendants et pluralistes, notamment dans le cadre du Plan  d’action des Nations Unies sur la sécurité des journalistes et la question de l’impunité et du PIDC, et à favoriser l’accès  de tous les individus à l’information et au savoir dans le cadre du Programme Mémoire du monde, du programme relatif  aux ressources éducatives libres, du PIPT et du SMSI. Il a brièvement présenté le budget, dont le montant, tel  qu’annoncé dans le plan de dépenses, était inférieur à celui qui avait été mentionné dans le 37 C/5. Pendant le débat,  les délégués ont également entendu Mexind Suko Utomo, âgé de 24 ans, qui a appelé les États membres à améliorer  l’infrastructure et la maîtrise des médias pour faciliter le dialogue et la collaboration entre les décideurs et les jeunes. Il a  exhorté les États membres à protéger les médias en ligne et hors ligne, qui sont un espace ouvert où les jeunes peuvent  collaborer.
63.4 Permettez-moi maintenant d’aborder les commentaires des 32 États membres et de l’observateur qui sont  intervenus lors du débat consacré au 37 C/5. Ils peuvent être résumés comme suit : les États membres ont réaffirmé  qu’ils approuvaient le programme du Secteur et sa contribution à la promotion du développement durable par la liberté  d’expression, le développement des médias et le libre accès à l’information. Un soutien résolu a été apporté au Plan  d’action des Nations Unies sur la sécurité des journalistes et la question de l’impunité, ainsi qu’au Programme Mémoire  du monde. De nombreux États membres ont exprimé leur préoccupation quant à l’impact de la réduction budgétaire sur  l’exécution du programme, appelant à redoubler d’efforts pour recueillir des fonds extrabudgétaires, nouer et renforcer  des partenariats, y compris avec des entités du secteur privé, et intensifier la collaboration intersectorielle. Plusieurs  États membres ont proposé des amendements au Programme afin de souligner l’importance de composantes incluant le  PIDC et le PIPT. Au moins deux États membres ont insisté sur la nécessité d’instaurer un équilibre entre liberté de la  presse et respect de la déontologie journalistique.
63.5 En réponse à certaines questions posées par des États membres, M. Kārkliņš a répété que les composantes CI  affectées à d’autres programmes avaient été réintégrées et que l’intitulé du programme figurant dans le 37 C/5  redeviendrait « Secteur de la communication et de l’information ». En ce qui concerne la coopération entre les Secteurs  CI et ED dans le domaine des TIC, il a évoqué l’élaboration et le déploiement du Cadre de compétences des  enseignants en matière de TIC, ajoutant que cette coopération se poursuivrait. Il a fait savoir aux délégués que le  rapport sur les tendances mondiales en matière de liberté d’expression et de développement des médias en était au  stade final de sa préparation et qu’un résumé de cette publication était disponible. Il a assuré aux États membres que  l’UNESCO continuerait d’associer les commissions nationales à la mise en œuvre de son programme. Il a salué l’offre  faite par la Lettonie d’accueillir en 2015 les célébrations de la Journée mondiale de la liberté de la presse. La  Commission a recommandé à la Conférence générale d’adopter le C/5 tel que modifié par le C/6 et les documents  connexes, ainsi que par les documents 37 C/DR.23 et 37 C/DR.5. Elle a également recommandé à la Conférence  générale d’approuver l’ouverture des crédits demandés au titre du grand programme V et le plan de dépenses de
507 millions de dollars. Enfin, elle a pris note des documents 37 C/5 Add.3, relatif à la Stratégie opérationnelle pour la  priorité Afrique, 37 C/5 Add.4, relatif au Plan d’action de l’UNESCO pour la priorité Égalité des genres, et 37 C/19, relatif  aux recommandations du Forum des jeunes. J’en arrive à la fin de mon rapport sur le premier débat.
63.6 Le deuxième débat a porté sur les questions relatives à Internet, notamment l’accès à l’information et au savoir,  la liberté d’expression, le respect de la vie privée et la dimension éthique de la société de l’information. Après la  présentation, par M. Kārkliņš, des principaux éléments du document de travail (37 C/61), 58 États membres et deux  observateurs ont pris la parole, la plupart d’entre eux se félicitant qu’un tel débat ait lieu. Toutefois, des préoccupations  ont été exprimées quant à l’absence de consensus sur la nécessité d’un instrument normatif, ou sur le contenu de celui- ci. Certains États membres ont estimé qu’il ne fallait pas se précipiter, notamment en raison de la grande complexité de  la question et du fait qu’elle ne pouvait pas être traitée intégralement dans un laps de temps restreint. À l’issue de  délibérations longues et approfondies, le Président a ajourné le débat sur ce point et mis en place un groupe informel à  participation non limitée, composé de représentants de chaque groupe régional et chargé de dégager un consensus sur  la base du projet de résolution 37 C/COM.CI/DR.3, ainsi que des propositions d’amendement présentées lors des  discussions consacrées au projet. Le groupe a été animé par M. Dankert Vedeler (Norvège), qui a ultérieurement
387  présenté la position consensuelle du groupe. Je dois souligner qu’à titre exceptionnel, celui-ci a bénéficié de services  d’interprétation. En temps normal, aucun service d’interprétation n’est fourni à ce type de groupe.
63.7 Après la présentation du rapport du groupe, la Commission est passée à l’approbation du projet de résolution -  tel qu’amendé – correspondant à ce point, pour adoption par la Conférence générale. Une fois adopté le projet de  résolution tel qu’amendé, plusieurs États membres se sont félicités du niveau du débat. Ils ont salué le consensus  auquel le groupe était parvenu et se sont réjouis à la perspective de poursuivre leur collaboration. Le troisième débat a  porté sur le projet de résolution (37 C/18 Partie XVI), portant sur la désignation de l’Institut international pour le dialogue  interculturel et le journalisme sensible aux conflits (IIDCSR), de l’Université d’Oregon (États-Unis), comme institut de  catégorie 2 placé sous l’égide de l’UNESCO. À l’issue d’une brève présentation faite par M. Kārkliņš, le projet de  résolution a été approuvé sans débat.
63.8 Permettez-moi maintenant de résumer les conclusions du quatrième débat, consacré au Rapport sur l’examen  de la mise en œuvre du Plan stratégique du Programme Information pour tous. M. Kārkliņš a présenté les principaux  aspects du débat, rappelant que la discussion devait se concentrer sur le rapport d’examen et non sur la totalité des  activités du PIPT. Vingt-deux États membres et un observateur ont pris la parole. Certains États membres ont salué  l’esprit d’ouverture du processus d’examen, déclarant qu’il avait été tenu compte de leurs observations critiques dans le  rapport. D’autres ont estimé que les États membres n’avaient pu y prendre une part active. S’agissant du projet de  résolution présenté, la plupart des États membres se sont prononcés en faveur de son adoption, mais certains ont jugé  que le document aurait dû contenir une évaluation plus fiable et plus approfondie du PIPT. En dernière analyse, la  Commission a recommandé à la Conférence générale d’adopter, à sa 37e session, le projet de résolution tel qu’amendé.
63.9 J'aimerais, à présent, faire quelques brèves remarques au sujet du cinquième débat de la Commission,  consacré au Rapport de la Directrice générale sur la mise en œuvre des résultats du Sommet mondial sur la société de  l’information (SMSI). Après un exposé du Directeur de la Division des sociétés du savoir, M. Indrajit Banerjee, 25 États  membres sont intervenus, la plupart félicitant le Secrétariat d’avoir accueilli la Réunion d'examen SMSI + 10 en dépit de  crédits budgétaires modestes. Ils ont souligné la nature multipartite de la réunion et noté l’importance que revêt le SMSI  en ce qu’il facilite l’examen de diverses questions, dont la sécurité des journalistes, la liberté d’expression, le  développement des médias, l’éthique et le respect de la vie privée dans le cyberespace, la maîtrise de l’information et le  multilinguisme, ou encore l’universalité d’Internet. Tandis que certains États membres ont encouragé l’UNESCO à  approfondir l’ébauche du concept d’universalité d’Internet dans le cadre de la poursuite de son travail sur les grandes  orientations du Sommet, d’autres ont appelé l’attention sur les politiques et les activités mises en œuvre au niveau des  pays, qui complètent l’action que l’UNESCO mène pour promouvoir l’accès à l’information et au savoir. Plusieurs États  membres ont noté que l’UNESCO occupait une position idéale pour aider à renforcer la place des TIC dans le  programme de développement pour l’après-2015 et jouer un rôle moteur encore plus important dans le cadre de  l’élaboration et de la mise en place de ce programme. Certains États membres ont suggéré d’organiser des forums en  plus grand nombre pour permettre une participation accrue des États membres. Un délégué au moins a souligné  l’importance des radios associatives interactives, des contenus locaux et du renforcement de la coopération avec des  acteurs et partenaires internationaux, éléments essentiels des futures activités de mise en œuvre des grandes  orientations du SMSI. Un État membre a demandé que le rapport oral mentionne spécifiquement les besoins particuliers  des petits États insulaires en développement (PEID), notamment dans le domaine des TIC et du changement climatique.  Un observateur qui participait à ce débat a proposé d’appuyer les activités liées au SMSI à titre gracieux, préconisant  d’améliorer la coopération entre les ONG et le secrétariat du PIPT.
63.10 Pour conclure le débat, M. Banerjee a remercié les États membres pour le soutien qu’ils avaient apporté à la  réunion d’examen SMSI + 10. Il a souhaité que la Déclaration finale qui en est issue soit prise en compte lors de la  prochaine réunion d’examen, qui sera organisée par l’Union internationale des télécommunications (UIT). Enfin, la  Commission a recommandé à la Conférence générale de prendre acte de la Déclaration finale, qui figure dans le  document 37 C/55. Pendant le sixième débat, les États membres se sont penchés sur (i) les Recommandations sur la  maîtrise de l’information et des médias et (ii) le Manifeste pour des bibliothèques accueillant les personnes handicapées  face au texte imprimé, deux documents que la Fédération internationale des associations de bibliothécaires et des  bibliothèques (IFLA) les avaient invités à approuver. Les représentants des Philippines et de l’Allemagne ont présenté  les principaux éléments du débat. Les projets de résolution relatifs à ce point ont été adoptés sans discussion.
63.11 Permettez-moi, à présent, d’aborder le septième et dernier débat de notre Commission, consacré à l’étude  préliminaire sur les aspects techniques, financiers et juridiques liés à l’opportunité d’élaborer, dans le cadre du  Programme Mémoire du monde, un instrument normatif sur la préservation et l’accessibilité du patrimoine documentaire.  Après une brève introduction dans laquelle Monsieur Banerjee a indiqué que la Directrice générale avait engagé une  réflexion sur l’évaluation et le renforcement du Programme Mémoire du monde en application de la résolution 36 C/59,
35 États membres et un observateur ont pris la parole. Dans l’ensemble, les États membres ont souscrit aux principes  qui sous-tendent le projet de résolution et salué le rôle que joue le Programme Mémoire du monde au titre de la  promotion de l’accessibilité et de la préservation du patrimoine documentaire. Ils ont été nombreux à mentionner  spécifiquement l’utilité du programme pour leurs pays respectifs. Compte tenu de l’importance du programme, les  délégués ont dans leur ensemble estimé que, pour le renforcer, il fallait élaborer un instrument normatif. Toutefois,  certains d’entre eux ont demandé s’il était urgent d’établir un tel instrument, arguant que l’action menée par l’UNESCO  en faveur de la préservation du patrimoine documentaire pouvait être intensifiée par d’autres moyens. Il a été noté qu’un  tel instrument serait particulièrement bénéfique en ce qu’il jouerait un rôle de catalyseur dans les pays qui ont besoin  d’un cadre juridique national et/ou sont fortement exposés au risque de perdre leur patrimoine documentaire en raison  d’infrastructures insuffisantes, de phénomènes naturels, de destructions intentionnelles et de négligences. En réponse à  une préoccupation exprimée par au moins trois États membres, le Président s’est engagé à reconnaître, dans le présent  rapport oral, que le patrimoine numérique faisait partie intégrante du patrimoine documentaire. Il s’est également engagé
388  à inclure dans le rapport la question importante de la mobilisation de ressources extrabudgétaires à l’appui de  l’élaboration de l’instrument normatif envisagé dans le projet de résolution.
63.12 Le débat s’est achevé par l’adoption du projet de résolution 37 C/48 tel qu’amendé. Mesdames et Messieurs les  délégués, j’en arrive à la fin de mon rapport sur les délibérations fructueuses de la Commission CI. Je vous remercie de  votre attention. Merci Madame la Présidente, Madame la Présidente du Conseil exécutif, Madame la Directrice générale,  Excellences, Mesdames et Messieurs. C’est pour moi un honneur que d’avoir présenté ce rapport oral au nom de la  Commission CI.
64. The President:   Thank you Your Excellency for a clear and comprehensive report. I also wish to thank all members of the  Commission for their work. Dear colleagues, are there any comments on document 37 C/75? I see none. May I then  assume that the General Conference takes note of the report of the CI Commission contained in document 37 C/75, and  adopts the draft resolutions also contained therein, subject to the decisions that the Conference may take on budgetary  issues when adopting the Appropriation Resolution for the next biennium? I see no objections. It is so decided. Dear  colleagues, we have thus finished our work for today. The plenary will meet tomorrow morning at 10 a.m. to examine the  remaining reports of the commissions. I wish you a pleasant evening. And I come to my favourite part – this meeting is  adjourned.  The meeting rose at 4.55 p.m.  La séance est levée à 16 h 55  Se levanta la sesión a las 16.55  Заседание закрывается в 16.55  بعد الظهر ٤,٥٥رفعت اسلسة يف الساعة    会议于 16 时 55 分结束