1. The President:   Ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon. I declare open the eighth plenary meeting of the General Conference,  which will be devoted to national statements. First, however, we will hear a report from the Credentials Committee. I now  give the floor to Hadidja Alim Youssouf, who will present the first report by the Chairperson of the Credentials Committee.  Madam, you have the floor.
2.1 Mme Youssouf (Cameroun) (Présidente du Comité de vérification des pouvoirs – CRE) :   Merci beaucoup, Monsieur le Président, de me passer la parole. Monsieur le Président de la Conférence  générale, Madame la Présidente du Conseil exécutif, Madame la Directrice générale, Excellences, Mesdames,  Messieurs, j’ai l’honneur de vous présenter le premier rapport de la Présidente du Comité de vérification des pouvoirs.  Depuis la lecture du premier rapport du Comité de vérification des pouvoirs en séance plénière, le mardi
5 novembre 2013, le Comité a reçu les pouvoirs en bonne et due forme des délégations des États membres dont les  noms s’affichent à l’écran, les pouvoirs provisoires des délégations des États membres dont les noms s’affichent à  l’écran et les pouvoirs en bonne et due forme des délégations des États membres dont la liste s’affiche à l’écran qui  avaient auparavant présenté des pouvoirs provisoires. Conformément à l’autorisation qui m’a été donnée par le Comité  de vérification des pouvoirs, je propose que la Conférence générale accepte ces pouvoirs.
2.2 Les délégations des États membres dont la liste s’affiche à l’écran n’ont pas encore présenté de pouvoirs. Les  délégations des Membres associés dont la liste s’affiche à l’écran n’ont pas encore présenté de pouvoirs. La délégation  de l’observateur dont le nom s’affiche à l’écran n’a pas encore présenté de pouvoir. Je vous remercie, Monsieur le  Président.
3.1 The President:   Thank you very much, Ambassador. Are there any other comments on this report? I see none. May I consider,  then, that the General Conference wishes to take note of the first report by the Chairperson of the Credentials  Committee? It is so decided.
3.2 Since we have a full schedule, I propose we start immediately with our work.   General policy debate (continued)  Débat de politique générale (suite)  Debate de política general (continuación)  Обсуждение вопросов общей политики (продолжение)  جتابع)مناقشة السياسة العامة    总政策辩论（续）
4. The President:   Excellency, ladies and gentlemen, we will now listen to national statements. I wish to remind you that each  statement will be limited to six minutes. I now have the honour to call our first speaker for this afternoon, Her Excellency,  Ms Girlyn Miguel, Deputy Prime Minister, Minister of Education of Saint Vincent and the Grenadines.
5.1 Ms Miguel (Saint Vincent and the Grenadines):   Mr President, Madam Director-General, Madam Chair of the Executive Board, Ministers, Excellencies, ladies  and gentlemen. Mr President, I congratulate you on your well-deserved election to the Presidency of the General  Conference and wish you every success. May I take this opportunity to thank the outgoing President, Ms Katalin Bogyay,  the Chair of the Executive Board, Ms Alissandra Cummins – the Caribbean community is very proud of her achievements  – and Ms Irina Bokova, our Director-General, for their outstanding leadership and commitment during their respective  tenures. Saint Vincent and the Grenadines also welcomes Anguilla, our sister Caribbean island as an Associate Member  of UNESCO.
5.2 One of the most important tasks facing our future Director-General is to enable the Organization to move  forward at the international level and it is thus pertinent and timely that the Leaders’ Forum discusses how UNESCO  contributes to the United Nation’s post-2015 development agenda – the proposed new global partnership to eradicate  poverty and transform economies through sustainable development. We welcome the fact that key issues from the  United Nations report on the new global partnership are already reflected in the Draft Medium-Term Strategy (37 C/4)  and the Draft Programme and Budget (37 C/5) in the two overarching objectives, which we fully support.
5.3 Saint Vincent and the Grenadines has played its part in helping to achieve the Millennium Goals, successfully  reducing indigent poverty from 26% in 1996 to less than 3% in 2009. We have also made significant progress towards  meeting the education for all goals. The emphasis will continue to be placed on the development of early childhood care  and development, the improvement of services in special education, technical and vocational education, adult and
205  continuing education and our ICT in education programme. We will continue to improve quality assurance throughout the  education system.
5.4 Sustainable development has particular importance and relevance for small island developing States (SIDS). It  is the only way forward for vulnerable countries on the front line of climate change. On the occasion of the International  Year of Small Island Developing States (SIDS) in 2014, Saint Vincent and the Grenadines hopes that UNESCO will  participate actively in the Third International Conference on Small Island Developing States, in September 2014 in  Samoa, and will take on board its outcomes in the rolling strategy.
5.5 Since the last General Conference, UNESCO has had to get to grips with an unprecedented financial crisis  owing to lack of contributions. This has called into question our ability to meet our objectives and has required us to  review all our activities and operations, our procedures and staffing and to cut back, with potentially serious  consequences. Difficult decisions have been taken and implemented and further unwelcome decisions need to be made.
5.6 We thank the Executive Board and the Secretariat for their prioritization work on the major programmes’  activities. With a reduced budget, it is vital to have clear priorities on which we can focus both financial and human  resources. We must be realistic and accept that we cannot do everything. The sunset clause for some activities will be  necessary, as recommended by the Independent External Evaluation (IEE).
5.7 We hope that prioritization will produce measurable and quantifiable results. Evaluation of the programmes  should be undertaken systematically. We also hope that with a $507 million expenditure plan, UNESCO will be able to  implement the expected results related to each main line of action. Extrabudgetary funds are also necessary and we  would like to see the introduction of a new strategy, including adequate staff training, in order to manage these funds  properly and effectively.
5.8 On education, we appeal for increased investment in education for all (EFA), with a strong focus on quality  education. In Saint Vincent and the Grenadines we are faced with the serious problem of boys’ underperformance in the  education system which leads to their unemployment and underemployment, with adverse consequences for society as  a whole. We would therefore like to see UNESCO prioritizing the issues and challenges facing youth in the post-2015  period.
5.9 We would like to thank the Intergovernmental Oceanographic Commission (IOC) for its work on the six sea-level  stations forming part of the tsunami early warning system in Central America and the Caribbean. We invite the Director- General to reinforce the human and financial resources of IOC which has a unique and vitally important mission.
5.10 Regarding social sciences, we believe that UNESCO should continue to work on social inclusion as well as on  the identification of ethical, legal and social implications of emerging technologies.
5.11 On culture, Saint Vincent and the Grenadines asks that particular attention be given to the 2005 Convention on  the Protection and Promotion of the Diversity of Cultural Expressions – promoting cultural diversity through projects  supported by the International Fund for Cultural Diversity (IFCD). Such projects can transform societies and are in line  with the ideas in the United Nations’ new Global Partnership.
5.12 My country fully supports the Major Programme V on communication and information. Access to information,  freedom of expression and information and communication technologies (ICT) are key elements for building knowledge  societies as stated in the Saint George’s declaration in 2011. Mr President, to conclude, I should like to stress that Saint  Vincent and the Grenadines remains firmly committed to supporting the ideals, objectives and work of UNESCO. Thank  you for your attention and may God bless UNESCO.
6. The President:   Thank you, Your Excellency, our next speaker is Her Excellency, Ms Maia Panjikidze, Minister of Foreign Affairs  of Georgia.
7.1 Ms Panjikidze (Georgia):   Mr President of the General Conference, Madam Director-General, distinguished delegates to UNESCO, first of  all let me begin my address by congratulating the new President of the General Conference, Mr Hao Ping, upon his  election.  On behalf of my country I would also like to congratulate Ms Irina Bokova on her nomination as a candidate to  the position of Director-General and express support for the reforms UNESCO has already carried out under her  leadership.
7.2 Distinguished delegates, we commend the fact that the Draft Medium-Term Strategy (37 C/4) creates a good  basis for a more focused and more performing UNESCO and clearly delineates the ways to strengthen UNESCO’s  global leading role and effective collaboration within the United Nations system. We strongly support the overarching  objectives of the Medium-Term Strategy – contributing to lasting peace and sustainable development. Georgia focuses  on reflecting upon and participating in the global development agenda and shares the UNESCO priorities with a focus on  gender equality and Africa.
7.3 Ladies and gentlemen, I deeply believe that education really empowers people, promotes democracy and  development. I especially cherish the years when I myself, as a teacher, was a part of a magnificent process of sharing  knowledge and values with the younger generation. Georgia fully supports the UNESCO education programme and  especially underlines the need for developing education systems to foster quality lifelong education for all.
7.4 Georgia expresses its strong commitment to UNESCO`s work on communication, media, freedom of expression  and safety of journalists. Significant efforts undertaken by the Georgian Government have considerably improved the
206  media environment in my country. We will accelerate our efforts to improve even further the situation regarding the  freedom of expression and pluralistic media, which have not been fully ensured in the past years.
7.5 We see culture as a driver for growth, stability and sustainable development. Culture must be integrated in  development agendas as a driving force for inclusive socio-economic development, peace, security and reconciliation –  this was the main point of the Director-General’s message addressed to the European Union’s Eastern Partnership  Ministerial Conference on Culture, held in Georgia, in June 2013. This very idea was also strongly underlined in the  Tbilisi Declaration adopted by the Conference. The Declaration will be presented to the heads of State and Government  at the Eastern Partnership Summit in Vilnius and may serve as a roadmap for better integration of cultural policies in  development agendas of Eastern Partnership countries.
7.6 We see the UNESCO Convention on the Protection and Promotion of the Diversity of Cultural Expressions as an  important pillar for development of effective policies in support of culture. The Convention is the main framework of  cooperation with the European Union in the sphere of culture, which is particularly important in the light of perspectives of  European Union-Georgia Association Agreement.
7.7 We fully acknowledge the inappropriate steps of past years that led to the inclusion of two Georgian world  heritage sites in the List of the World Heritage in Danger. The new Government is especially committed to meeting all the  recommendations of the World Heritage Committee. We are currently working on the “World Heritage State Programme”.  Elaboration of the special world heritage legislation is envisaged in the framework of the European Union-supported  Twinning Project.
7.8 Convinced of the need to further strengthen international efforts for the protection of cultural property, not only in  the event of the armed conflict but also foreign occupation, Georgia reconfirms its commitment to The Hague Convention  and expresses its determination to contribute to relevant multilateral cooperation.
7.9 Distinguished delegates, in 1945, UNESCO emerged from the ashes of World War II, “to build the defences of  peace” in the minds of men and women. For more than six decades, UNESCO has been robustly advancing the idea of  lasting peace. Unfortunately, however, in spite of all the efforts of the international community, the world still suffers from  armed conflicts, hostilities, military aggression and occupation, which entail the gravest humanitarian consequences,  affecting both people, their cultural expressions and quite often the cultural inheritance of humankind.
7.10 In my country, residents of Georgia’s occupied regions continue to be deprived of a minimal safeguard for their  basic rights and freedoms, including, but not limited to, the right to education in their native language. Furthermore, the  Ossetian and especially Abkhaz languages are seriously endangered in the occupied territories.
7.11 The Georgian Government is deprived of the possibility to preserve the precious cultural heritage monuments  located in Abkhazia and the Tskhinvali Region/South Ossetia, Georgia. This situation underlines the need for launching a  UNESCO expert mission.
7.12 Distinguished delegates, allow me to express my firm belief that, against all odds, the concept of dialogue and  common sense will finally prevail, in the minds of men and women throughout the world, over the language of hatred,  violence and confrontation. That is what we all should stand for. That is what UNESCO should still strive for through its  enduring intellectual leadership role. Thank you.
8. The President:    Thank you, Your Excellency. Our next speaker is His Excellency, Mr Shashi Tharoor, Minister of Human  Resources Development of India. Please.
9.1 Mr Tharoor (India):    Mr President, distinguished delegates, it is a pleasure and privilege to participate in this general policy debate  and to exchange thoughts with distinguished delegates from the 195 countries that make up the UNESCO family. I would  like to begin with a tribute to H.E. Katalin Bogyay. She brought belief and grace to her high office; her determination and  vivacity contributed in no small measure to keeping the good ship UNESCO afloat and on course. I have great pleasure  too, in welcoming my old friend Mr Hao Ping to the Presidency of the General Conference, and have no doubt that he will  bring his rich experience, wisdom and sagacity to bear on the many and complex tasks that lie ahead. I would also take  this opportunity to congratulate Ms Irina Bokova on being elected to her second term as Director-General. Her convincing  victory is reflective of the faith reposed in her by Member States, and of the goodwill that she and her actions have  generated. In the years that lie ahead, she will need all this and more. I am confident that she will lead UNESCO to  greater heights and an increasing recognition of its importance and role.
9.2 We, in India are proud of the fact that leaders and thinkers such as Dr Sarvepalli Radhakrishnan, Mr Maulana  Azad, Ms Indira Gandhi and Dr Zakir Husain, amongst others, have served on UNESCO’s Governing Bodies, and have  helped shape UNESCO. At an institution established in the aftermath of war, they were ever conscious of the need to  promote peace, respect diversity, promote pluralism and address asymmetries. In the same spirit, I would like to address  some of the key policy issues that UNESCO must take up.
9.3 We have had a rich discussion at the Leaders’ Forum on the post-2015 development agenda. The outcome of  the deliberations at various forums will define the major developmental priorities in the foreseeable future and, we hope,  establish a new template for global cooperation. We have been clear in our minds that the focus of a development  agenda should be robust and equitable development, and that poverty eradication and the bridging of inequalities should  be pivotal elements. We would urge the recognition of common but differentiated responsibility, in tune with national  capabilities, through technology transfer, for instance.
9.4 India plays its part: we have worked effectively on Priority Africa and gender equality, two very important themes  of UNESCO. We understand our international responsibilities and are partnering with African countries in capacity  development by taking up country-specific activities as well as pan-Africa initiatives. For the education sector alone, India  has taken up projects of more than $2 billion in Africa. We have also had a good meeting here in the BRICS framework.
9.5 In the education sector, our policies and programmes have been enriched by interaction with UNESCO, with the  community of nations and stakeholders, and the E-9 group of countries, of which we have been privileged to be the  Chair. An elemental transformation is needed in school and higher education systems. The world needs a generation  that is better educated, in the most profound sense of that word, than ever before. In our country, the focus of our  educational policies is to achieve the aims of four ‘E’s – Expansion, Equity, Excellence and Employability, indispensable  accompaniments to and catalysts of change.  We strive to achieve education for all: to provide universal equitable  access, ensure retention and improve quality of learning outcomes with an emphasis on disadvantaged groups. Our  Right of Children to Free and Compulsory Education Act was enacted in 2009. This reflects a shift to a rights-based  approach and obliges the State to provide free and compulsory education to children of 6-14 years of age. We have also  focused on education for girls, on children belonging to disadvantaged groups and those with disabilities or special  needs. For those who missed out on education in childhood, our adult literacy programme is the world’s largest, and we  are proud that it was the recipient of this year’s UNESCO King Sejong Literacy Prize.
9.6 In the culture sector, we have been encouraged by the efforts of the Director-General to encourage a process of  introspection, dialogue and reform to make the World Heritage Convention more representative of the world’s wonderful  heritage and all its diversity, and its processes more transparent and accountable. The 2003 and 2005 Conventions,  recognizing diversity, pluralism and intangible cultural heritage, have a special meaning. They are the most celebratory of  UNESCO’s conventions, recognizing the pluralistic mosaic of cultures, languages, beliefs and customs that make up our  world. We need to extricate them from the tangle of process and procedure that they have become mired in, and restore  their essential spirit and inclusive character.
9.7 India not only supports UNESCO through our regular Member State budgetary contributions, but takes a lead  role in various organs and committees of UNESCO, including through financial and capacity-development support. We  are also contributing over $40 million towards the Mahatma Gandhi Institute of Education for Peace and Sustainable  Development, a category 1 institute in New Delhi.
9.8 One cannot avoid a word on cyberspace-related concerns, including access to information and knowledge,  freedom of expression, privacy and the ethical dimensions of the information society. At UNESCO we have two decades  of work and deliberation on aspects of these issues. India is strongly committed to freedom of expression and pluralistic  media. The Organization is uniquely positioned, away from the immediacy and intensity of current debate, to provide a  platform for dialogue and consensus on the many dimensions that are relevant to its fields of competence. India is  strongly committed to freedom of expression and pluralistic media. I would urge that we initiate this process, to ensure  that UNESCO is a part of the conversation, and to enable it to play a constructive role on these issues. I am confident  that our deliberations in the days ahead will be fruitful and productive. Thank you, and Jai Hind!
10. The President:   Thank you, Your Excellency. Our next speaker is His Excellency Mr Régis Manoro, Minister of Education of  Madagascar.
11.1 M. Manoro (Madagascar) :   Monsieur le Président de la Conférence générale, Madame la Directrice générale, Excellences, Mesdames et  Messieurs. Au nom de Madagascar, l’honneur m’échoit de vous féliciter, Monsieur le Président, pour votre brillante  élection à la présidence de cette 37e session de la Conférence générale de l’UNESCO. Permettez-moi, par la même  occasion, de rendre hommage à votre prédécesseur, S. E. Mme Katalin Bogyay, pour son travail exceptionnel en faveur  de la paix par le biais de la diplomatie culturelle. J’adresse aussi toutes nos félicitations à la Directrice générale,  Mme Irina Bokova, pour sa réélection, et réaffirme le soutien sans faille de Madagascar à son endroit pour ce deuxième  mandat.
11.2 Monsieur le Président, depuis la dernière session de la Conférence générale, l’UNESCO traverse une période  de difficultés financières dues au non-paiement par quelques États membres de leur contribution au budget ordinaire de  l’Organisation. Madagascar soutient pleinement Madame la Directrice générale dans ses initiatives et efforts en vue du  paiement, par tous les pays membres, de leur contribution. Monsieur le Président, au regard de la crise financière  internationale, Madagascar approuve un budget à croissance nominale zéro. Néanmoins, elle considère que les  programmes prioritaires qui ont été adoptés par la Conférence générale ne doivent pas souffrir du manque de  financement. Aussi, sans remettre en cause les fonds d’urgence déjà mis en place, Madagascar propose qu’une  nouvelle répartition des contributions soit étudiée afin que le budget ordinaire de l’UNESCO couvre de façon pérenne la  totalité des besoins dictés par ses attributions de chef de file dans ses domaines de compétence.
11.3 Monsieur le Président, l’UNESCO est l’auteur de nombreuses réalisations dans le domaine de l’éducation.  Néanmoins, force est de constater que beaucoup reste à faire, en particulier pour renforcer l’éducation de base,  l’éducation des filles et des femmes, la formation professionnelle et l’enseignement supérieur, l’éducation aux droits de  l’homme, à la tolérance et au dialogue, afin de promouvoir la réconciliation et la paix.
11.4 L’éducation est la base de tout développement et les curricula se doivent d’être conformes aux besoins ciblés  de la politique de développement des pays concernés. En ce qui concerne Madagascar, un mouvement national pour  l’EPT est né en mai 2011 après la signature d’un document par les représentants du gouvernement et les membres de la  société civile. Ce mouvement a notamment pour objectif de mettre en place des structures pérennes pour prendre en
208  charge l’éducation des filles et des femmes et veiller à leur éducation, dans le cadre de l’OMD. Pour ce faire,  Madagascar sollicite une aide de l’UNESCO en vue du renforcement des capacités des enseignants et des maîtres  d’école.
11.5 Madagascar attache aussi beaucoup d’importance aux TIC. Le Ministère de l’éducation nationale met en œuvre  une politique de promotion et de vulgarisation des TIC dans les établissements scolaires. Des centres de ressources TIC  ont été créés et mis en place dans les lycées publics d’enseignement général. Une bibliothèque numérique a été mise  en place par une équipe spécialisée pour certaines disciplines – mathématiques, physique-chimie, sciences de la vie et  de la terre, anglais et français –, à partir des ressources numériques pédagogiques libres sur les réseaux Internet et ce,  pour les enseignants et les élèves de lycée. Cette bibliothèque numérique est en passe d’être étendue à toute l’île.  Monsieur le Président, selon le Rapport mondial de suivi de l’UNESCO sur l'EPT, si les pays africains percevaient 10 %  des revenus générés par les ressources minières, le problème de l’Éducation pour tous en Afrique serait résolu à très  court terme. Malheureusement, plus de 95 % de ces revenus reviennent aux sociétés d’extraction. Madagascar estime  que l’UNESCO doit veiller au renforcement des transferts de technologie et mettre en place une charte sur l’éthique des  partenariats économiques afin de rendre les partenariats public-privé plus justes et plus humains, et permettre ainsi aux  pays en développement de mettre en œuvre leur politique de développement par leurs propres moyens.
11.6 Monsieur le Président, le tourisme culturel est appelé à être un des fers de lance du développement  économique de notre pays, compte étant tenu de la protection de l’environnement. Aussi Madagascar appelle-t-elle de  ses vœux le renforcement des programmes relatifs aux réserves de biosphère et à l’éducation en vue du développement  durable, ainsi que le renforcement des capacités en matière de protection, de sauvegarde et de gestion du patrimoine  culturel et naturel.
11.7 Monsieur le Président, Madagascar entame la phase finale du processus de sortie de la crise qui secoue le  pays depuis 2009. Le 25 octobre dernier, le peuple malgache a voté au premier tour de l’élection présidentielle. Notre  souhait est que ce processus de sortie de crise arrive à son terme. Je saisis donc cette occasion pour vous remercier  chaleureusement, au nom du Gouvernement et du peuple malgaches, vous tous, amis et partenaires de Madagascar  représentés dans cette auguste Assemblée, et, en particulier, l’UNESCO, d’avoir toujours accompagné notre pays et son  peuple tout au long de cette pénible expérience. Je vous remercie de votre aimable attention.
(13.1) Mr Al-Waz (Syrian Arab Republic) (translation from the Arabic):   Madam Director-General of UNESCO, Mr President of the General Conference, dear guests, I am pleased, together  with the delegation of my country, the Syrian Arab Republic, which is participating in the work of the General Conference of  UNESCO at its 37th session, to congratulate Her Excellency the Director-General, Ms Irina Bokova, on her election, and His  Excellency the President of the General Conference, Mr Hao Ping, on his election, and to wish him every success in his work.
(13.2) Ladies and gentlemen, the issues of the progress, advancement and development of human society are an ongoing  concern. National strategies have been drawn up, projects prepared and plans programmed in order to move ahead. The  importance of education has been acknowledged as the optimum investment in order to attain the human future we all seek.  We in the Syrian Arab Republic, despite the current crisis, are pursuing our tireless efforts to advance the human, social and  educational situation, and to meet the challenges facing our national development projects drawn up and implemented  diligently by the Ministry of Education in accordance with national guidelines. The first such project involved drawing up  national criteria for educational curricula for the period 2003-2013: two presidential decrees were issued for the creation of the  National Curriculum Development Centre and the Centre for Educational Measurement and Assessment. The new  examination system was applied to the secondary diploma (baccalauréat).
(13.3) Ladies and gentlemen, for the past four years, we have had the honour of serving on UNESCO’s Executive Board,  where we have worked together to achieve optimum results. We reiterate that we in the Syrian Arab Republic are prepared to  pursue our efforts and to provide effective support in charting the future of our Organization and shielding it from any crises  which may affect it. We have supported the structural reform efforts under way in the Organization, and are keen to respect  the principles of its Constitution and the international conventions underpinning our social work. The programme of  administrative reform, the balanced human resources policy, implementation-based programming and budget-based  restructuring have been undertaken with the following priorities: Priority Africa, gender equality, education for all (EFA),  responding to the Global Education First Initiative, quality learning throughout life, the Scientific Advisory Board for sustainable  development, teacher training, youth programmes, the fight against poverty, and girls’ education. As we announced officially at  the Leaders’ Forum, we are committed to supporting the efforts of the Organization to meet the challenges of sustainable  development post-2015, and first and foremost the achievement of peace, security and standing up to terrorism.
(13.4) We also reiterate our positions of principle towards the resolutions concerning the occupied Arab territories, and  stress that the whole world is agreed on rejecting the practices of the Israeli occupation authorities and their daily aggressions  against our people in occupied Arab Palestine and the occupied Syrian Arab Golan, including the destruction of its historic and  religious heritage, its social fabric, the infrastructure of its educational and cultural institutions and the abolition of their role in  preserving national identity, which is clear for all to see in the continued failure of the Israeli authorities to apply the relevant  international legal resolutions, their ongoing judaization of Jerusalem, their illegal settlements, and their blockade of Gaza.  Today, more than at any time in the past, we reiterate our commitment to and support for the just causes being defended by  the Group of 77 and China, the Non-Aligned Movement, and the BRICS countries.
(13.5) We appeal to the Member States to support our Organization and to work together for the binding implementation of  the UNESCO heritage conventions, in particular the Convention for the Protection of the World Cultural and Natural Heritage  and the Convention for the Safeguarding of the Intangible Cultural Heritage, and to combat trafficking in cultural property by  implementing the decisions of the Intergovernmental Committee for Promoting the Return of Cultural Property to its Countries  of Origin or its Restitution in Case of Illicit Appropriation.
(13.6) Ladies and gentlemen, for more than two and half years, our people in the Syrian Arab Republic have been waging a  ferocious battle against a conspiracy whose tools are takfīrī thought (branding Muslims as infidels) and armed criminality in the  shape of al-Qā‘ida and its extension Jabhat an-Nuṣra, which are attempting to gain hegemony over our sovereign decision- making authority and to attract external interference, deflect the country from its course and principles of resistance, and to do  away with the path of construction and development that it has followed over the past decade. Our steps have been firm and  our objectives clear; we have launched a programme of reforms which meet real social requirements, involving wide-ranging  national dialogue and a broad popular participation aimed at advancing our home country. This was clearly expressed in the  comprehensive political programme launched by Mr Bashar el-Assad, President of the Syrian Arab Republic, on 6 January
2013. In a subsequent interview with the Russian newspaper Izvestia dated 26 August 2013, he stated the following: “We are  an independent State; we shall combat terrorism and we shall build relations with the States we wish in complete freedom and  in a manner which is conducive to the interests of the Syrian people.” My country, the Syrian Arab Republic, announced its  readiness to participate in the Geneva II Conference on Syria without pre-conditions, and stressed that a solution to the crisis  could be achieved by means of a dialogue among Syrians without external interference or dictates, and that in order to be  successful, any political solution would have to oblige States which support terrorism to halt their material, military, logistic and  media support to those terrorist groups. Ladies and gentlemen, despite the current challenges, we are committed to pursuing  our development cooperation with UNESCO in the various priority fields in the Syrian Arab Republic undergoing constant
210  renewal and to contribute to the building of a more human world in which equitable sustainable development with a human  focus is achieved. Thank you for your attention.
14. The President:   Thank you, Your Excellency. Our next speaker is His Excellency Mr Nyesom Ezenwo Wike, Minister of  Education of Nigeria.
15.1 Mr Wike (Nigeria):   Mr President of the General Conference, Your Excellencies and dear colleagues, I bring you warm greetings  and the best wishes of the President of the Federal Republic of Nigeria, Mr Goodluck Jonathan, for a very fruitful  conference. Mr President, I wish to congratulate you on your election as President of the 37th session of the General  Conference and wish you a very successful term of office. Let me thank those who yesterday attended our general  reception and lunch, documenting 53 years of Nigeria-UNESCO cooperation in education. We are indeed grateful.
15.2 Mr President, we recall with satisfaction the UNESCO Multisectoral Regional Office in Abuja and the Nigerian  National Commission for UNESCO, which will further the long-standing cooperation between UNESCO and countries of  the West African region. We look forward to UNESCO’s action in assuring the provision of the full complement of  Professional staff for the efficient operation of the regional office.
15.3 Nigeria endorses the main thrust of both the Medium-Term Strategy for 2014-2021 and the Programme and  Budget for 2014-2017 as well as the retention of the two global priorities, Africa and gender equality. We also support the  programme priorities’ emphasis on other groups such as least developed countries (LDCs), small island developing  States (SIDS) and countries in transition.
15.4 Mr President, Nigeria is committed to accelerating the achievement of the education for all (EFA) goals through  more focused action. In September this year, we convened an education summit with the participation of the United  Nations Special Envoy on Education First, the Right Honourable Gordon Brown, to map out a clear strategy to mobilize  resources towards the final push to 2015. We note with satisfaction the success of the summit with international donors  pledging to contribute $250 million and the Federal Government of Nigeria matching it with the same amount.
15.5 Furthermore, Nigeria is addressing the issue of the global learning deficit by investing in quality teacher  development and improving literacy, in both formal and non-formal contexts, through the use of appropriate technologies.  Mr President, in line with our commitment to the development of technical and vocational education and training (TVET),  Nigeria recently hosted the Africa Regional Forum on Advancing TVET for Youth Employability and Sustainable  Development in collaboration with the UNESCO International Centre for Technical and Vocational Education and  Training (UNEVOC) network. We have also set up a “National Partnership Committee of Government and Private  Sector”, with a mandate to develop a strategy to improve the effectiveness of TVET.
15.6 In the area of science and technology, we are collaborating with UNESCO in a project that is expected to drive  innovation and unlock opportunities for massive economic activities. Nigeria is currently reviewing its national youth  policy and therefore applauds the operational strategy for youth which is in tandem with our national strategy outreach,  grassroots and partnership-based engagement.
15.7 In culture, we have ratified all UNESCO standard-setting instruments and set up a committee for the  domestication of international laws and legislation. We are hosting the first Africa Regional Meeting on the Convention on  the Protection of the Underwater Cultural Heritage later this month and establishing an underwater cultural research and  imaging centre which will serve as a hub for underwater cultural activities in Africa.
15.8 In a nation of over 100 million mobile phone users, the use of information and communication technologies  (ICTs) for knowledge dissemination is of high importance to us. In June this year, we hosted a global conference on  promoting media and information literacy in furtherance of our commitment to promoting an enabling environment for  press freedom and pluralistic media. Similarly, the issuance of licenses for television and radio stations has been  liberalized as a follow-up to the Freedom of Information Act.
15.9 Mr President, we commend the Director-General’s financial management as well as efforts to secure  considerable amounts of extrabudgetary resources for critical programmes and end the biennium without a deficit.  However, a budget of $507 million will certainly not meet the needs of our Member States. We must therefore, during our  debates, find attractive funding mechanisms to cover the shortfall. Dear friends, 1 January 2014 will mark the centenary  of the amalgamation of the Northern and Southern Nigeria protectorates, which led to the emergence of modern-day  Nigeria. I wish to invite you all to visit Nigeria and enjoy our warm hospitality so as to mark the centenary of our dear  nation. I thank you all for your kind attention.
16. The President:    Now I call on His Excellency, Mr Séraphin Moundounga, Minister of Education, Higher and Technical Education,  Professional Training and Scientific Research, in charge of Culture, Youth and Sports of Gabon.
17.1 M. Moundounga (Gabon) :   Monsieur le Président de la Conférence générale, Madame la Présidente du Conseil exécutif, Madame la  représentante de la Directrice générale, Mesdames et Messieurs les Chefs de délégation, Excellences, Mesdames et  Messieurs les Ambassadeurs. Monsieur le Président de la Conférence générale, en vous félicitant pour votre désignation  à la présidence de cette instance, tout en louant le travail remarquable de votre prédécesseur, S. E. Mme Katalin Bogyay,  dont l’action, conjuguée à celle de la Directrice générale, est couronnée d’un bilan ayant placé l’Afrique en général, et le  Gabon en particulier, au cœur de l’action de l’UNESCO, le Gabon demeure optimiste quant à la consolidation de notre
211  Institution commune afin qu’elle continue de rayonner. Que Mme lrina Bokova veuille bien accepter que lui soient  réitérées les félicitations qui lui avaient été exprimées par S. E. M. Ali Bongo Ondimba, Président de la République  gabonaise, Chef de l’État, pour le renouvellement de la confiance dont elle a bénéficié de la part du Conseil exécutif. À  ces félicitations se joignent celles du Gouvernement gabonais ainsi que de l’ensemble de la communauté éducative,  scientifique et culturelle gabonaise. Vous pouvez continuer à compter sur le soutien du Gabon pour toutes vos initiatives  tout au long de ce second mandat à la tête de notre Institution.
17.2 Monsieur le Président de la Conférence générale, dans le cadre de sa vision tendant à faire du Gabon un pays  émergent à l’horizon 2025 par la mise en œuvre des trois piliers que sont « le Gabon vert », « le Gabon des services » et  « le Gabon industriel », l’éducation, la formation, les sciences et la culture – domaines de compétence dans lesquels  l’UNESCO a un avantage comparatif manifeste – sont, pour le Président Ali Bongo Ondimba, les priorités du plan  stratégique « Gabon émergent ». C’est à ce titre que nous avons entrepris de refonder notre système éducatif, d’abord  par la convocation d’états généraux en 2010, puis par le vote d’une nouvelle loi d’orientation de l’enseignement, de la  formation et de la recherche au Gabon, qui a été examinée et adoptée par le Parlement en 2011, avant d’être  promulguée par le Président de la République en 2012, remplaçant ainsi une loi de 1966. Pour la mise en œuvre du  nouveau système éducatif gabonais, l’accompagnement de l’UNESCO est déjà appréciable, notamment en matière de  promotion de l’enseignement des sciences, de formation des formateurs et de production de statistiques de l’éducation.
17.3 Un forum national sur l’apprentissage et l’éducation des adultes visant à redéfinir la politique nationale de  l’alphabétisation, en vue de conférer à celle-ci une vocation professionnalisante pour une meilleure employabilité, sera  organisé très prochainement. De même, le programme de diagnostic de la qualité de l’éducation de base au Gabon,  engagé en 2012 en collaboration avec l’UNESCO, s’est approprié dans son rapport – qui vous sera transmis très  prochainement – le diagnostic posé par les états généraux, ainsi que le recensement des défis et atouts de notre  système éducatif. Du côté des atouts, le Gabon a réussi à atteindre un taux de scolarisation des enfants d’âge scolaire  de 98 %, avec une parité appréciable entre filles et garçons au niveau de l’éducation de base. Mais des défis demeurent :  notamment, des taux de redoublement particulièrement importants, des taux de déperdition scolaire élevés et une  inadéquation entre la formation et l’emploi. Ce diagnostic nous a amenés à envisager différentes pistes de solution,  telles que la réorganisation de l’ensemble des curricula, la formation des enseignants, ou l’introduction de l’anglais et des  technologies de l’information et de la communication dès l’école primaire. Cette dernière piste est en voie  d’expérimentation en République gabonaise. La réorganisation du système éducatif gabonais met un accent particulier  sur le développement des compétences par la promotion et le renforcement de la formation professionnalisante pour une  meilleure employabilité de la jeunesse dans les différents corps de métier des trois piliers du « Gabon émergent ». Dans  le prolongement de l’Histoire générale de l’Afrique, initiée par l’UNESCO, le Gabon a mis en place un panel gabonais  chargé de revisiter et d’approfondir l’histoire du Gabon.
17.4 Dans le domaine de la culture, le Gabon a lancé, à partir de 2011, des réformes qui ont conduit à l’élaboration et  à l’adoption de nouveaux instruments normatifs qui fixent les grandes orientations de la politique culturelle nationale et  mettent en avant les trois axes prioritaires que sont la préservation des acquis du patrimoine, la promotion de la  créativité et la démocratisation culturelle à travers l’accès du plus grand nombre aux services et évenements culturels,  tout en assurant la promotion du droit d’auteur et des droits voisins dans le cadre du tout nouveau Bureau gabonais des  droits d’auteurs (BUGADA). Excellences, Mesdames et Messieurs, c’est sur ces mots que nous souhaitons « bon vent »  à l’UNESCO, et je vous remercie de votre aimable attention.
18. The President:    Now I would like to call on His Excellency, Mr Moussa Ouattara, Minister of Secondary and Higher Education of  Burkina Faso.
19.1 M. Ouattara (Burkina Faso) :   Monsieur le Président de la Conférence générale, Madame la Présidente du Conseil exécutif, Madame la  Directrice générale, Mesdames et Messieurs les représentants. Avant toute chose, Monsieur le Président de la  Conférence générale, ma délégation est très heureuse de vous adresser toutes ses félicitations pour votre brillante  élection à la présidence de cette importante session de la Conférence générale.
19.2 Monsieur le Président, nous voici réunis une fois de plus pour nous assurer, par nos échanges, que les actions  que l’UNESCO mène et mènera sont et seront pertinentes au regard du rôle qui lui est assigné au sein du système des  Nations Unies. Ma délégation réaffirme l’attachement de notre pays à l’action de l’UNESCO et félicite la Directrice  générale, Mme Irina Bokova, pour l’efficacité et la détermination avec lesquelles elle a su conduire l’Organisation et ce,  dans un contexte de précarité financière et de pressions liées aux défis de l’agenda 2015. Nous l’encourageons à  persévérer dans sa volonté de faire de l’UNESCO une organisation au service du développement durable, pour les  populations actuelles et futures du monde entier.
19.3 Monsieur le Président, Mesdames et Messieurs, permettez-moi d’évoquer quelques points relatifs au  programme d’action de notre Organisation auxquels mon pays est particulièrement attaché. La priorité Afrique a été  discutée à plusieurs reprises lors des réunions du Conseil exécutif et d’autres organes. En dépit de la situation financière  difficile, l’Afrique fait toujours partie des deux priorités globales de l’UNESCO, ce dont je vous remercie, en souhaitant  toutefois que les efforts restent soutenus en vue de doter cette priorité des moyens nécessaires pour la mise en œuvre  des activités y afférentes. Pour sa part, le Burkina Faso reste disposé à y apporter sa contribution.
19.4 Étant le pays d’un des principaux et éminents auteurs de l’Histoire générale de l’Afrique, j’ai nommé le  professeur Joseph Ki-Zerbo, le Burkina Faso accorde une grande importance au projet d’utilisation pédagogique de  l’Histoire générale de l’Afrique pour les générations actuelles et futures du continent. Aussi continuera-t-il, comme par le
212  passé, à contribuer financièrement à ce projet et exhorte-t-il tous les pays africains à faire de même, en collaboration  avec les partenaires et amis, ainsi que l’UNESCO.
19.5 La réforme du dispositif hors Siège et celle de l’éducation sont deux autres points d’intérêt pour mon pays.  J’encourage l’UNESCO à poursuivre la première en s’assurant de la fonctionnalité efficace des bureaux hors Siège, qui  devront être dotés du personnel adéquat, en quantité et en qualité. Ce dispositif devrait permettre de répondre aux  besoins qui sont les nôtres en matière d’accompagnement de nos politiques, dans les différents domaines de  compétence de l’UNESCO. Dans le secteur de l’éducation, en particulier, nous avons encore beaucoup de défis à  relever. C’est donc à juste titre que mon pays salue l’initiative de coalition mondiale pour un monde alphabétisé de la  Directrice générale. Je salue également le projet d’autoévaluation pour l’éducation pour tous lancé par le groupe africain  à l’UNESCO. Mon pays s’engage à soutenir la concrétisation de ce processus d’autoévaluation, que ce soit à travers des  plaidoyers ou la participation d’experts nationaux.
19.6 Dans le même registre, nous nous engageons à poursuivre le renforcement de la promotion de l’éducation des  filles et des femmes en Afrique, par le biais du Centre international pour l'éducation des filles et des femmes en Afrique  (CIEFFA), dont le Conseil exécutif a décidé la reconduction au regard des résultats déjà engrangés. De fait, l’égalité des  genres et l’équité régionale font partie des priorités du Burkina Faso.
19.7 La science et la culture sont des domaines très importants pour le développement de nos pays. Les résultats de  la science peuvent permettre d’améliorer les conditions de vie de nos populations, tandis que la culture s’affirme comme  l’âme des peuples. Aussi exhortons-nous les pays membres de l’Organisation à ratifier les conventions pertinentes et à  en être les porte-voix ; ces conventions nous protègent tous et nous aident à vivre dans la bonne entente et l’harmonie.  Le Burkina Faso peut vous assurer de sa disponibilité en la matière.
19.8 J’encourage par ailleurs l’Organisation à accentuer ses efforts dans le domaine de la science en prenant en  compte les besoins locaux et contextuels des personnes et en valorisant les expertises traditionnelles dignes d’intérêt  pour le développement de l’humanité. C’est l’ambition du Chef de l’État, M. Blaise Compaoré, qui, en suscitant la  création d’un ministère entièrement dédié à la recherche et aux innovations, entend en faire la promotion au service du  développement durable.
19.9 Mesdames et Messieurs, mon pays a foi en l’UNESCO et en son action en faveur d’un monde toujours meilleur.  C’est pour cette raison que, quittant le Conseil exécutif après un mandat de quatre ans, il ambitionne de continuer  d’apporter sa pierre à l’édifice en sollicitant un mandat dans un certain nombre d’organes subsidiaires. À cet égard, il sait  pouvoir compter sur votre soutien. Le cas échéant, nous y assumerons notre mission de la manière la plus honorable  possible. Je tiens enfin à remercier chaleureusement Madame la Présidente du Conseil exécutif pour la fructueuse  collaboration que nous avons entretenue durant son mandat. Je vous remercie.
20. The President:   Thank you, Your Excellency. Now I would like to invite Her Excellency, Ms Kandia Camara, Minister of  Education and Technology of Côte d’Ivoire, to take the floor.
21.1 Mme Camara (Côte d’Ivoire) :   Monsieur le Président de la Conférence générale, Madame la Présidente du Conseil exécutif, Madame la  Directrice générale, Mesdames et Messieurs, la tenue de la 37e session de la Conférence générale me donne l’agréable  occasion de vous adresser, au nom du Président de la République de Côte d’Ivoire, S. E. M. Alassane Ouattara, les  salutations fraternelles du peuple ivoirien. Avant tout propos, je voudrais féliciter M. Hao Ping pour sa brillante élection à  la tête de la Conférence générale de notre Organisation. Mesdames et Messieurs, permettez-moi d’exprimer toute mon  admiration et ma reconnaissance à Mme Katalin Bogyay, précédente Présidente de la Conférence générale, et à  Mme Alissandra Cummins, Présidente du Conseil exécutif, deux grandes dames dont la compétence et le leadership ont  contribué à relever bien des défis en ces moments de turbulence généralisée. J’adresse mes remerciements sincères à  Mme lrina Bokova, Directrice générale, dont l’humanisme et l’engagement ont permis de renforcer la visibilité de l’action  de l’UNESCO sur le terrain malgré un contexte financier difficile. Je la félicite d’avoir été proposée par le Conseil exécutif  pour un deuxième mandat.
21.2 La Côte d’Ivoire voudrait exprimer sa gratitude à l’UNESCO pour l’attention dont elle a bénéficié pendant ce  biennium par le biais du Programme global d'appui spécial post-conflit en sa faveur et du projet UNESCO-Chine de  renforcement des capacités des enseignants (Fonds-en-dépôt chinois (CFIT)). Pour l’aider à relever ces nombreux défis,  un bureau national est désormais installé à Abidjan. Ses activités ont déjà démarré mais il conviendrait de renforcer ses  capacités opérationnelles au moyen de ressources humaines et financières.
21.3 En outre, mon pays se réjouit d’avoir été choisi pour faire partie des bénéficiaires du Programme accéléré pour  l’alphabétisation et de l’attribution du Prix UNESCO-Confucius d’alphabétisation à une ONG ivoirienne. Par ailleurs,  l’inscription de la ville historique de Grand-Bassam sur la Liste du patrimoine mondial est, pour la Côte d’Ivoire, un motif  de satisfaction et de fierté, et mon pays renouvelle sa gratitude à toutes les instances qui y ont contribué.
21.4 Mesdames et Messieurs, cette session se tient à un moment où les défis à relever sont encore nombreux dans  tous les domaines, rendant la mission de l’UNESCO toujours plus pertinente. La récurrence des guerres et des conflits  de toutes sortes, ainsi que leur impact sur la vie des peuples victimes, apparentent la recherche de la paix à un véritable  travail de Sisyphe. C’est pourtant dans ce contexte difficile que la mission de l’UNESCO doit s’affirmer davantage.  Devant ces menaces, notre Organisation doit continuer d’être à l’avant-garde de la recherche du bien-être de l’humanité.  En cela, ma délégation la félicite pour les actions déjà accomplies, tout en reconnaissant que beaucoup reste encore à  faire. Globalement, elle approuve les documents 37 C/4 et 37 C/5. Elle apprécie surtout que l’Afrique et l’egalité des  genres demeurent les priorités globales des années à venir.
21.5 Mesdames et Messieurs, dans le domaine de l’éducation, la plupart des programmes dans lesquels la  responsabilité de l’UNESCO se trouve engagée viennent de s’achever ou arrivent à expiration en 2015, date à laquelle  les objectifs assignés à ces programmes ne seront pas entièrement atteints. Il nous faut déployer de nouveaux efforts,  en faveur, notamment, d’un monde alphabétisé au XXIe siècle et de l’éducation pour tous – filles et garçons – sans  aucune discrimination.
21.6 Il est pertinent que la science se mette au service du développement. Les effets néfastes du changement  climatique ainsi que des catastrophes naturelles de tous genres rendent de plus en plus fragile l’équilibre physique du  monde par la perte de la biodiversité. En Afrique de l’Ouest, par exemple, le désert avance en même temps que l’érosion  taraude les côtes maritimes.
21.7 Pour la Côte d’Ivoire, la consolidation de la paix et de la cohésion sociale, après la crise qu’elle a vécue, passe  par l’inclusion sociale et le dialogue interculturel. C’est pourquoi nous adhérons au Programme MOST visant à mobiliser  la recherche et les connaissances pour soutenir les transformations sociales.
21.8 Mesdames et Messieurs, pour les années à venir, l’UNESCO se propose de construire la paix et le  développement durable par le patrimoine et la créativité. Mon pays partage totalement cette vision car la culture est le  socle de toute richesse humaine. Dans ce sens, la Côte d’Ivoire ambitionne de faire de la culture un véritable axe de  développement par la création d’industries culturelles avec, entre autres, le Festival des musiques urbaines d’Anoumabo  (FEMUA), lancé par l’Ambassadeur de bonne volonté de l’UNESCO A’Salfo, de Magic System, et le Marché des arts du  spectacle africain (MASA).
21.9 Mon pays envisage, par ailleurs, de réaliser un inventaire de son patrimoine culturel avec l’aide de l’UNESCO.  La paix et le développement doivent être soutenus par la liberté d’expression, l’accès au savoir et la sécurité des  journalistes. La Côte d’Ivoire s’est engagée à promouvoir des médias libres, indépendants et pluralistes par la mise en  place de structures d’autorégulation. Elle se préoccupe du renforcement des compétences des professionnels des  médias. Enfin, mon pays appuie la volonté de l’UNESCO de promouvoir les applications novatrices des TIC dans tous  les domaines du développement humain.
21.10 Mesdames et Messieurs, les défis auxquels l’humanité se trouve confrontée deviennent de plus en plus  complexes. Malgré le développement des sciences, des techniques et des technologies, et parfois même à cause de ce  développement, les intérêts des uns et des autres continuent de s’opposer radicalement dans la plupart des cas. C’est  pourquoi, en tant que conscience de l’humanité, l’UNESCO doit davantage insuffler à celle-ci le supplément d’âme  nécessaire. Je vous remercie.
22. The President:   Thank you, Your Excellency. Now I would like to call on His Excellency, Mr Octave Nicoué Broohm, Minister of  Higher Education and Research of Togo.
23.1 M. Broohm (Togo) :   Monsieur le Président de la Conférence générale, Mesdames et Messieurs les représentants, c’est pour moi un  privilège et un insigne honneur de prendre la parole devant cette auguste Assemblée pour vous délivrer le message de  paix, de tolérance et d’espérance des plus hautes autorités togolaises et réaffirmer, du haut de cette tribune du savoir et  du partage, l’attachement du peuple togolais aux idéaux de notre Organisation. Je ne saurais aller plus loin sans féliciter  chaleureusement S. E. M. Ping Hao pour sa brillante élection à la tête de cette 37e session. Mes sincères remerciements  vont à Madame la Présidente du Conseil exécutif pour la qualité du travail accompli tout au long de l’exercice biennal qui  s’achève. Je saisis cette occasion pour présenter notre sincère gratitude à Madame la Directrice générale de l’UNESCO  et à son équipe pour le travail immense abattu à la tête de notre Organisation depuis déjà quatre ans, malgré les  contraintes d’un contexte difficile. Nous gardons un souvenir mémorable de la visite qu’elle a effectuée dans notre pays  en juin 2012.
23.2 Monsieur le Président, la présente session se tient à un moment où la paix et la sécurité internationales  continuent d’être gravement menacées dans le monde, singulièrement en Afrique (les exemples du Mali et de l’Afrique  centrale en disent long). L’UNESCO se trouve ainsi appelée à s’acquitter pleinement de son rôle et de sa vocation  éthique et éducative, avec une plus grande détermination et des initiatives plus audacieuses. Au moment où les sociétés  sont confrontées à des pressions de plus en plus fortes en faveur du changement, l’UNESCO a un rôle unique à jouer  dans le renforcement des fondements d’une paix et d’un développement durables par la promotion de la coopération  dans les domaines de l’éducation, des sciences, de la culture et de la communication. Les Objectifs du Millénaire pour le  développement, adoptés en 2000, quantifient les cibles à atteindre à l’échelle mondiale pour affronter la misère humaine  dans ses multiples dimensions. Des efforts supplémentaires restent à faire dans le cadre de la définition d’un nouvel  agenda post-2015. Les liens sont clairs entre éducation, réduction de la pauvreté et durabilité.
23.3 La promotion de l’egalité des genres est au cœur du grand programme I – Éducation, et est inextricablement  liée à la défense du droit à l’éducation pour tous. Nous estimons que l’Éducation en vue du développement durable peut  contribuer à une gestion durable de l’environnement pour améliorer les moyens d’existence, accroître la sécurité  économique et humaine et créer des possibilités de revenus pour les pauvres. Mon pays est convaincu que  l’enseignement technique et professionnel peut aider les jeunes à trouver des « emplois verts » dans les énergies  renouvelables, le recyclage, l’agriculture, le bâtiment et les transports. Le renforcement de l’efficacité des programmes  d’alphabétisation des jeunes et des adultes est un des axes importants du Programme et budget de l’UNESCO pour
2014-2017, et nous nous félicitons de la mise en œuvre du Programme de renforcement des capacités en faveur de  l'EPT (CapEPT), en cours dans notre pays depuis 2010, qui vise à renforcer les capacités en vue d’améliorer la qualité  de l’alphabétisation et de l’éducation non formelle au Togo.
23.4 Élargir les possibilités novatrices d’apprentissage, en particulier grâce aux technologies de l’information et de la  communication dans l’éducation, notamment dans l’enseignement supérieur, demeure une de nos préoccupations en  vue d’améliorer la qualité de notre système éducatif. À cet égard, le groupe de travail sur les enseignants pour  l’Éducation pour tous, mis en place pour la formation des enseignants, devra être renforcé. La nécessité de promouvoir  une participation accrue des femmes dans les domaines de la science et de la recherche s’inscrit dans le cadre de la  priorité sectorielle biennale du grand programme Il consacrée à la science au service de la paix et du développement  durable, et nous ne pouvons que nous en féliciter. Le Camp des sciences pour jeunes filles scolaires qu’organise la  Commission nationale togolaise pour l’UNESCO est une initiative à saluer et à encourager, car elle vise à sensibiliser  aux disciplines scientifiques les jeunes filles du secondaire ayant obtenu les meilleurs résultats et à les inciter à s’orienter  vers les filières scientifiques à l’université. La coopération scientifique internationale en faveur de la paix, de la durabilité  et de l’inclusion sociale devra être renforcée au cours de ce biennium. Il en est de même de la promotion du dialogue  interculturel. Mon pays réaffirme son attachement à la promotion de la liberté d’expression, au développement des  médias et à l’accès universel à l’information et au savoir.
23.5 Monsieur le Président, l’Afrique et l’egalité des genres sont une fois de plus réaffirmées comme priorités  globales pour les quatre années à venir, et le Togo ne peut qu’apporter son soutien à cette vision stratégique de  l’UNESCO. Je vous remercie.
24. The President:   Thank you, Your Excellency. Now I’d like to invite His Excellency, Mr Antonio Correia e Silva, Minister of Higher  Education and Sciences of Cabo Verde.
25.1 Mr Correia e Silva (Cabo Verde): (address delivered in Portuguese; English text provided by the delegation):   Mr President of the General Conference, Madam Chair of the Executive Board, ministers, ladies and gentlemen,  it is a great honour for me to speak as Minister of Higher Education of Cabo Verde in this United Nations forum. For any  country, it is very important to consider these topics, and in particular for Cabo Verde, a nation that belongs to the  category of small island developing States, with limited resources, at a crossroads between the Sahel and the Ocean,  suffering from drought and isolation in the middle of the ocean. For all these reasons, among others, my country, in  compliance with the guidance of UNESCO, from the very beginning, from its independence on 5 July, 1975, has  considered culture as an essential part of its collective project. Education and culture are instruments for individual  emancipation, collective dignity and the consolidation of our nation with a view to sustainable development.
25.2 It goes without saying that developing education is part and parcel of our national project. The various  successive governments of my country have always focused, independently of political leanings or the situations  encountered, on improving the education system. In this way, in line with the recommendations and guidance of forums  such as this, we have continued down this path. All the governments of our country have contributed to the construction  of this edifice because education has always been considered as a topic of national significance. We have, therefore,  strived unremittingly for education for all (EFA) goals and Millennium Development Goals (MDGs) and we will continue to  do so. I am sure that we can take up the challenges of EFA and attain the MDGs by 2015. Any victory in the area of  education is pyrrhic, however, because it is a constantly moving goal. Indeed, now we must focus on quality teacher  training and making sure that the process is sustainable. It is essential to continue focusing on innovative types of  education, such as distance learning and open educational resources (OER), and focus on free access to education, as  proposed by UNESCO. We also need to develop and share quality digital technology tools for high quality education,  thus completing the process of teaching and learning with the help of digital technology.
25.3 I think that today, more than ever, education and communication go hand in hand. We need to move outside the  traditional classroom and conquer, for example, television, radio and mobile devices that have revolutionized our daily  lives. We speak a lot of the construction of innovative economies and societies but in the South, in order to achieve these  goals, we must find new ways of educating. We need to innovate to educate more and better. We need to focus on the  type of education that can generate economic wealth. We need to build and develop schools that are attentive to the  needs of the economy and the creation of national wealth. We do not want schools that do not contribute to the  employability of young people. On the contrary, we need schools that prepare people for the business world, to be  entrepreneurs and to be innovative. I would like to thank UNESCO, though its regional office located in Dakar, Senegal,  for organizing the upcoming high-level ministerial meeting on education, culture and creative economy. We would like to  set up a system to ensure the quality of education, since evaluation, self-evaluation and external evaluation are currently  major challenges for us.
25.4 Throughout its history, Cabo Verde has been the product of a cultural synthesis, resulting from the meeting of  different cultures and languages from African and Europe. We are very proud of this heritage, although it is not  something that is fossilized. Preserving it is not enough; we need to have a dynamic relationship within this heritage. We  embrace the notion of creative heritage and we wish to transform our heritage into a kind of cybermuseum. We also are  interested in such projects as the Slave Route Project and we wish to highlight this cultural synthesis of Cabo Verde,  which is a real visiting card for us. We also wish to propose ”morna”, the national music of Cabo Verde, sister of  Portugal’s “fado” and Brazil’s “lundum”, for inclusion on UNESCO’s Representative List of the Intangible Cultural  Heritage of Humanity. With this initiative, we would strengthen cultural diversity, which is essential for humankind. Thank  you.
26. The President:   Thank you, Your Excellency. Now I call on His Excellency, Mr Shiferaw Shegute, Minister of Education of  Ethiopia.
27.1 Mr Shegute (Ethiopia):   Mr President, Excellencies, distinguished delegates, ladies and gentlemen, it is an honour to address this august  body for the first time as the Minister of Education of Ethiopia. Mr President, I would like to warmly congratulate you on  your election. I would like to also reassure the Director-General that she can count on the full support of my delegation.
27.2 Excellencies, Ethiopia has long-standing cooperation with UNESCO since its establishment. Education, science,  culture and communication are priority sectors in Ethiopia’s national agenda. Ethiopia is the second most populous  country in Africa; it has registered double-digit growth over the last decade and is the fastest growing economy in Africa.  Ethiopia’s main preoccupations have been and remain poverty eradication, peace and security, democracy and good  governance.
27.3 Since 1991, Ethiopia has embarked on a path of renewal and engaged in massive reform envisioned by the late  Prime Minister Meles Zenawi. In this regard, the Government fully recognized the valuable role of education. It is out of  this realization that Ethiopia has overhauled, reformed and transformed the nation’s education system. We began this  long journey by defining the relevance and the purpose of education for social and societal transformation, formulating  education policy and strategy, and creating the institutions and other educational infrastructure. These were the initial  steps in the long process of the reform programme.
27.4 The Government has highly invested in the education sector over the last two decades. Our investment in the  sector has led to great achievements. When we started the reform, primary education coverage was only under 20%.  Today, we have achieved the MDG in primary education. At all levels, we have over 20 million students. The number of  our schools has quadrupled. We had only two public universities back then. Today, we have 31 universities. The number  of private higher education institutions has increased tremendously. Technical and vocational education and training  (TVET) is one of our main focuses and we have benchmarked the best practices. Our main preoccupation today  emphasizes more on the quality of education.
27.5 Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, 70% of our university students are enrolled in natural sciences, technology  and engineering fields, while the remaining 30% are in the social and human sciences. This is by design. This clearly  illustrates the prominence that Ethiopia attaches to the natural sciences. Ethiopia has initiated cooperation with UNESCO  in the field of biotechnology and we are keen enough to see more knowledge-sharing in this field. We are looking forward  to seeing more support and capacity building of our scientific institutions and universities.
27.6 Excellencies, Ethiopia has an extremely rich and diverse cultural heritage. Our cultural diversity was ill-managed  in the past and was used to divide and rule. The new Constitution promotes cultural diversity. We embarked on  democracy as the only form of governance that can help manage our diversity. That is why we say democracy is not a  matter of choice for us but an essential issue. In this regard, we must specially stress the importance of UNESCO’s
1972, 2003 and 2005 conventions. We need UNESCO’s support in building the capacities of our institutions in the  cultural sector and in designing more effective cultural policies. We would like to implement successfully UNESCO’s  conventions.
27.7 Mr President, regarding information and communication technologies, my Government has greatly invested in  infrastructure and state-of-art technology. We are focusing both on access and quality of information. The Constitution of  Ethiopia guarantees freedom of expression. In promoting free press, our national policy focuses on responsible ethical  and professional media. We are working on building the capacity of media institutions, policy-makers and designing a  strong legal framework. As the lead agency in communication and information, we believe UNESCO can play a key role  in this regard.
27.8 Mr President, the financial situation of our Organization has led us Member States to prioritize and focus on  UNESCO’s programmes but it should also be an opportunity to reflect on this division, the mission and the working  methods of this Organization. It is now time to seriously engage in political debates so that we can provide proper  political guidance and direction. Ethiopia is ready to engage in candid dialogue that can enable UNESCO to meet the  aspirations and the interests of its Member States.
27.9 In the two decades of the existence of Priority Africa, Member States have continuously pointed out the lack of  delivery and effectiveness. The same comment can be made for the priority on gender equality. We need to ensure that  recently defined operational strategies, both in gender and in Priority Africa, will lead to achieving concrete results.
27.10 Finally, on behalf of my Government and my own behalf, I would like to express our sincere thanks to those who  have contributed to the overall development of Ethiopia. I am looking forward to working with you, fellow ministers, and  with the leadership of our Organization, for our common good. Thank you.
(29.1) Mr Tameem (Iraq) (translation from the Arabic):   Bismillāh ir-raḥmān ir-raḥīm (In the name of God, the Merciful, the Compassionate). Mr President of the General  Conference, Madam Chair of the Executive Board, Madam Director-General of UNESCO, Excellencies, esteemed heads and  members of delegations, as-salāmu ‘alaikum wa-raḥmatu llāhi wa-barakātuh (peace and the mercy and blessings of God be  upon you). At the outset of my statement, I am pleased to congratulate you, Mr President, on the confidence demonstrated in  you by the General Conference in electing you President of the current session. I am certain that your great experience and  expertise fully qualify you to shoulder ably the responsibility entrusted in you in such a manner as to contribute effectively to  achieving the desired goals in order to realize our Organization’s noble objectives.
(29.2) From the land of Mesopotamia, I come to you bearing our warmest greetings. I am overjoyed to stand here before  the intellectual leaders and shapers of human development to speak to you about my country, which many of you know and of  which you have heard so much. In my country today, like many-coloured butterflies and white doves, millions of pupils go  every day to more than 20,000 schools, where they are received by thousands of teachers, male and female, to shape  together a better future for our country and for all humankind. The contours of the kind of education we desire and pursue,  ladies and gentlemen, must embody a noble humanitarian vision, in which the love of human beings for their fellow human  beings is deepened, and in which two kinds of individuals are recognized: either your brother in religion or your colleague in  humanism. We wish to promote the noble journey to shape an optimum humane society of mutual solidarity in which  differences are abolished and in which scientific, economic, cultural and social discrepancies between peoples are reduced.  We seek a kind of education which reflects our human relations and sows in our souls hopes for a life of freedom and dignity in  which the footsteps of development proceed apace and whose projects extend to include the entire Earth and all its people.  Education, my brothers and sisters, is a project for the building of society, the development of the self, and the inculcation of  the values of humanism in the souls of our sons and daughters, for they are the leaders of tomorrow, and it is on their  shoulders that will fall responsibility for the process of construction; their wellbeing shall overcome the forces of evil and  aggression, and peace and harmony shall be achieved.
(29.3) This 37th session of the General Conference of UNESCO is of special importance and wide-ranging significance, for  it is being held under difficult circumstances, especially given the budget shortfall from which the Organization has been  suffering since 2011, and the attendant difficulties in executing UNESCO’s basic programmes. Iraq has contributed to
217  supporting the Organization by donating to the Emergency Fund, in addition to paying all its assessed contributions under the  regular budget, and to signing numerous agreements with UNESCO for the preservation of the cultural heritage. Here I turn to  Ms Irina Bokova to say that we appreciate your great efforts to overcome the difficulties and to safeguard UNESCO’s leading  role in its fields of competence, in a bid to achieve the Organization’s mission, to embody its noble goals, and to emphasize its  unique role in consolidating the foundations of lasting peace and sustainable development. We applaud your determination to  take the measures proposed in the Draft Medium-Term Strategy, and hope that the reform efforts may not be at the expense  of programmes for needy countries or for those suffering from special conditions.
(29.4) Iraq devotes particular attention to the World Heritage Committee (WHC) in view of the exceptional wealth conferred  upon Iraq by the history of our country, which is replete with the accretions of human experience on its soil over centuries and  millennia. As you know, Iraq is the cradle of civilizations: it has more than 10,000 archaeological sites, and we are pleased that  UNESCO helps us to preserve and manage the cultural heritage at various sites of major importance included in the Tentative  List of World Heritage in Iraq. For that reason, we hope that membership in the consultative committees should not be  restricted to certain countries, but that there should be equitable geographical distribution in the selection of members, from all  geographical regions.
(29.5) The accelerating pace of events the world is witnessing points to a need to boost UNESCO’s role and to disseminate  its values of justice, equality, tolerance, democracy and human rights. However, it will not be able to perform its mission in  optimum fashion so long as it is not supported by the benevolent and the international community as a whole. The world is in  need of this pioneering Organization in which all cultures and religions are mingled together, and of a clear definition of the  path to building societies which reject violence, extremism and hatred, in which are found justice and respect for human  dignity, and in which every individual may live in peace and tolerance.
(29.6) We all know that UNESCO is concerned with eradicating illiteracy and providing support for projects relating to  education, science and communication; but it is also concerned with the issues of freedom, right, justice, and the defence of  human rights, especially in the occupied territories in Palestine. It is the Organization’s duty to seek to preserve the ethnic,  religious and national territory of peoples, and to endeavour to halt the modification, currently being engaged in by Israel, of  the cultural and historic character of the city of Jerusalem.
(29.7) Finally, allow me, on behalf of my country, once again to offer sincere thanks to your Organization for all the support  and assistance it has provided to my country. Allow me also to convey congratulations to Ms Irina Bokova on the occasion of  her re-election as Director-General of UNESCO, and to say to her “well done”; we hope that you may continue to give your  best to the Organization, and pray to God for your success. Please accept from me flowers of love and pride which I bear from  Baghdad, in the land of Mesopotamia, decorated with verses of gratitude – thanks to you all. I wish to assure you that Iraq is  well in spite of all the challenges and all the forces of terrorism, which we dearly long to see repelled at the end of the day. As- salāmu ‘alaikum wa-raḥmatu llāhi wa-barakātuh (Peace and the mercy and blessings of God be upon you).
30. The President:   Thank you, Your Excellency. Now I would like to invite His Excellency, Mr M’Pinda Simão, Minister of Education  of Angola.
31.1 Mr Simão (Angola): (address delivered in Portuguese; English text provided by the delegation)   Mr President of the General Conference, Madam Chair of the Executive Board, Madam Director-General of  UNESCO, heads of delegation, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the Government of Angola, I would like to commend  His Excellency Mr Hao Ping on his election as President of the 37th session of the General Conference.
31.2 I would like to take this opportunity to commend and thank Ms Alissandra Cummins for her exceptional service  to UNESCO as Chair of the Executive Board. We should also like to congratulate and commend Ms Irina Bokova on her  nomination and expected re-election by this distinguished body as Director-General.
31.3 Excellencies, ladies and gentlemen, at a time when we are addressing the post-2015 global development  agenda, it is imperative that education, sciences, culture, and communication and information receive the special  attention they deserve because they help to build a better, more just and inclusive world. This is the deep meaning of the  action under way in preparation of the next global agenda for development. Given the achievements and shortcomings in  the attainment of the Millennium Development Goals (MDGs) for development, UNESCO is well-placed to contribute  towards identifying and raising awareness about the new emerging challenges.
31.4 It is also important to have tolerance and the protection of the natural underwater and tangible and intangible  cultural heritage. For the developing countries, we recognize the relevance of UNESCO’s commitment in order to create  conditions for access to science, technology and innovation, and at the same time, provide young people with the skills  they need to find employment.
31.5 Priority should be given to the objectives and strategies that promote independence for women and girls. In the  African context, the Angolan Government continues to work towards far-reaching awareness and mobilization of  Government institutions and private stakeholders within the framework of the action plan adopted last March for the pan- African forum entitled “Sources and resources for a culture of peace” – a joint undertaking with the African Union (AU)  and UNESCO. We welcome the recent initiative launched in Addis Ababa, on the occasion of the celebration of the  International Day of Peace with a view to creating a network of African foundations working for a culture of peace.
31.6 In the sphere of education, the Angolan Government in March of this year acceded to the initiative to accelerate  EFA for the period 2013-2015 as the basis on which we will seek to achieve the goals set in Jomtien and Dakar. We  undertake to work with the other Member States to ensure the success of the education for all (EFA) self-assessment in  partnership with the African Union (AU) and the European Union (EU). We will work with the other Member States and  we would like to express our support for this initiative. As to higher education, there has been extraordinary growth in our  country in recent years, and there has been particular pride of place given to those areas where there are shortcomings.  We are working on medium- and long-term development and we wish to have an alliance between university and  scientific research and the world of business.
31.7 Angola has implemented a programme to match training opportunities to the economic development needs of  the country between now and the year 2025. Moreover, from July to September 2013 there was an exceptional  presidential initiative to give youth a voice, where the public authorities met with more than 50,000 young people  representing various sectors of the population, both within the country and from the diaspora. This has had an enormous  impact and has created an environment conducive to democratic participation of young people within the framework of  operational strategies for sectoral action within the national development plan 2013-2017.
31.8 Ladies and gentlemen, Excellencies, we are also aware of the financial difficulties and it is important to maintain  Priority Africa. This is one of the overarching themes of the Organization, and it will be necessary to explore the  contribution possibilities that can be found both within Africa and the other partners who can contribute to the Priority  Africa programme. I would also like to express our admiration for the Director-General and the staff and their mission,  seeking to make it possible to achieve the Organization’s goals despite the financial difficulties it faces. Thank you for  your attention.
32. The President:   Thank you, Your Excellency. I would like to invite His Excellency, Mr Hang Chuon Naron, Minister of Education,  Youth and Sports of Cambodia, to take the floor.
33.1 Mr Hang (Cambodia):   Mr President of the General Conference, Excellencies, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to congratulate  Mr Hao Ping on his assumption of the Presidency of the General Conference. I would also like to thank his predecessor,  Ms Bogyay, for her excellent work. I would also like to extend Cambodia’s warmest congratulations to Her Excellency  Irina Bokova on the occasion of her nomination by the Executive Board to serve a second term as UNESCO Director- General.
33.2 It is my pleasure to share with you the efforts of the Royal Government of Cambodia during the last two years  under the leadership of Prime Minister Samdech Akka Moha Sena Padei Techo Hun Sen. I am proud to inform you that  Cambodia has made remarkable achievements in education, particularly on the education for all (EFA) and education- related Millennium Development Goals (MDGs). With 97% enrolment rate for boys and girls, we have achieved universal  access to primary education with gender parity. In line with the United Nations Secretary-General’s Global Education  First Initiative (GEFI), we are committed to putting every child in school, improving the quality of learning at all levels and  fostering global citizenship among Cambodian learners. We have also integrated life skills as well as sexual and  reproductive health into the education programme and are currently working on the integration of education for  sustainable development into the teacher education curriculum.
33.3 With this achievement, we also recognize the challenges in improving the quality of learning from an early age,  the increased number of instructional hours, transition to and completion of secondary education, attracting qualified  candidates to become teachers, deployment of trained teachers across the country and ensuring the provision of  textbooks and learning materials, conducting learning assessments, and strengthening institutional as well as  professional capacities to ensure efficient and effective delivery of education services to all.
33.4 In the coming years, we also have to put our efforts into ensuring that basic and higher education are relevant  for social, cultural and economic development. We will be focusing on national examination reforms, curriculum reforms  and quality assurance in higher education, including the launch of the Cambodia Development Research Forum with  support from the World Bank and UNESCO.
33.5 In this regard, I am pleased to announce that the Government of Cambodia’s commitment has been  consolidated into action as the budget for education has increased by 20% for 2014. UNESCO’s EFA Capacity Building  programme (CapEFA) support has enabled the Ministry to strengthen non-formal education. We have developed the  Country Literacy Acceleration Plan and are implementing measures to ensure that Cambodia achieves the EFA goal on  literacy by 2015.
33.6 We appreciate UNESCO’s active role as the Chair of the education sector group to enhance coordination in  order to ensure the engagement of development partners in developing the Education Strategic Plan and facilitating the  application of $38 million to the Global Partnership for Education (GPE), expanding early childhood education and laying  strong foundations in education.
33.7  In the field of communication and information, I am pleased to inform you that the Government of Cambodia is  continuously working towards improvements in freedom of expression, democratic governance and inclusive civic  participation. In response to the concerns raised by the Director-General of UNESCO, the Cambodian Government has  made safety of journalists and press freedom top priorities. In this regard, the Ministry of Information and UNESCO  continue to provide training to media professionals and to work towards passing information legislation.   (The speaker continues in French)
33.8 Excellences, Mesdames et Messieurs, le Gouvernement royal du Cambodge estime enfin que la culture est un  élément essentiel de la reconstruction de notre nation et des efforts de réconciliation ayant un impact social, économique  et politique durable et positif. Cela encourage le Cambodge à continuer à protéger activement non seulement son  patrimoine archéologique mais aussi son patrimoine urbain et son patrimoine immatériel, et à promouvoir les industries  créatives telles que le cinéma et le design.
33.9 En termes de diversité, l’unicité du territoire en dehors du temple de Preah Vihear a incité le Gouvernement  royal du Cambodge, en étroite collaboration avec l’UNESCO, à collaborer à la création d’un musée qui rassemblerait des  collections archéologiques, ethnographiques, botaniques et géologiques. Toujours avec l’assistance de l’UNESCO, le
219  gouvernement a créé une unité dédiée au patrimoine sous-marin, chargée de la mise en œuvre de la Convention de  l’UNESCO sur la protection du patrimoine culturel subaquatique de 2001, que seul le Cambodge a ratifiée en Asie du  Sud-Est. Cette unité a contribué à l’organisation, en mai 2012, de la 1ere Conférence Asie-Pacifique sur le patrimoine  culturel subaquatique. Le Cambodge a besoin d’une assistance technique et d’une formation internationale pour pouvoir  continuer ses travaux scientifiques dans ce domaine.
33.10 L’année 2013 a été particulièrement riche en événements marquants pour notre pays dans sa relation avec  l’UNESCO. Notre gouvernement a désigné les 17 premiers Trésors humains vivants afin de transférer leurs  connaissances et compétences aux jeunes générations. En juin dernier, le Cambodge a eu l’insigne honneur de recevoir  le Comité du patrimoine mondial et nombre d’entre vous. Cette 37e session, intense et fructueuse, a été le témoin d’un  heureux événement : la restitution volontaire par le Metropolitan Museum of Art de New York de deux superbes statues  d’art khmer en provenance du site de Koh Ker, au Cambodge. Le Gouvernement du Cambodge tient à exprimer sa  profonde gratitude au Metropolitan Museum pour ce geste généreux, éthique et exemplaire, et remercie le  Gouvernement des États-Unis et l’UNESCO pour leur soutien constant en la matière.
33.11 2013 sera également l’année de la célébration, le 5 décembre prochain, à Angkor, des 20 années d’existence  du Comité international de coordination pour la sauvegarde et le développement du site historique d’Angkor. Ce  mécanisme a inspiré la création d’autres comités internationaux de coordination en Afghanistan, en Iraq et en Haïti. Il  m’est agréable de réitérer auprès des pays amis l’invitation à participer à cet anniversaire. Il est proposé que cette  nouvelle décennie s’articule autour d’une nouvelle approche : nouvelles technologies et nouvelles compétences pour  Angkor. Je vous remercie de votre aimable attention.
34. The President:   Thank you, Your Excellency. I would like to call on His Excellency, Mr Shukuru Kawambwa Minister of  Education, and Vocational Training of United Republic of Tanzania.
35.1 Mr Kawambwa (United Republic of Tanzania):    President of the General Conference, Chair of the Executive Board, Director-General of UNESCO, honourable  ministers, distinguished delegates, Excellencies, ladies and gentlemen, I am greatly honoured to address the 37th  session of the General Conference of UNESCO. At the outset please allow me to congratulate you Mr President for your  well-deserved election and to assure you of my Government’s full support. I recognize the excellent leadership of the  outgoing President of the 36th session of the General Conference throughout her term in office. I would also like to seize  this opportunity to thank the Director-General, Ms Irina Bokova for her stewardship of the Organization in spite of the  many hurdles she had to face.
35.2 Mr President, UNESCO is facing numerous challenges arising out of the meagre regular budgetary resources,  while the aspirations of the Member States and the global citizens to fast-track the MDGs and the EFA goals and the  wish to define the future global agenda remain high. My Government supports the Director-General in her endeavours to  ensure that UNESCO remains relevant, revitalized and resilient and wishes her all the best in the upcoming election.
35.3 We also thank her for presenting a focused Medium-Term Strategy 2014-2021, which will guide the Organization  for the next eight years, and for ensuring that Priority Africa and gender equality remain UNESCO's global priorities. It is  my conviction that the proposed operational strategy for Priority Africa with its six flagship programmes will contribute to  addressing Africa’s development challenges.
35.4 Mr President, freedom of expression, open and equitable access to information and knowledge are a prerequisite  to socio-economic development and yet disparities continue to exist between nations and among individuals in these  areas. UNESCO should bridge the information and knowledge divide by strengthening the Communication and  Information Sector (CI). Out of the growing concern on unethical use and abuse of the Internet as a media of  communication UNESCO should come up with ethical principles governing the operation and use of cyberspace.
35.5 Mr President, science, technology and innovation are drivers of change and socio-economic development.  UNESCO's role in assisting its Member States to address their science, technology and innovation (STI) policies and  strategies is highly appreciated. My Government is grateful to UNESCO for the support it has received in reviewing and  repositioning its STI system. Our cooperation with UNESCO in marine and ocean sciences has helped to build the  capacity of our experts in these areas.
35.6 My Government recognizes the important role culture can play in advancing socio-economic development.  Tanzania has ratified several UNESCO culture conventions; tangible and intangible, among these is the convention  concerning the protection of world cultural and natural heritage. Tanzania has inscribed more than 73,000 square  kilometres of its land for conservation to benefit humanity. The richness of Tanzanian cultural diversity has enabled its  people to live harmoniously for centuries. Culture should be factored into the post-2015 global development agenda.
35.7 Tanzania is a living democracy, committed to social inclusion and intercultural dialogue. In this regard, deliberate  policies have been put in place to ensure participation of youth, women and disadvantaged groups. Considering the  challenges facing youth, UNESCO should strengthen its action on the African Youth Strategy.
35.8 As we approach the year 2015, several countries, particularly in Africa, will be left behind in realizing  internationally agreed development goals. There is need to support them to accelerate the process. In preparing  UNESCO's position for the post-2015 development agenda, consideration should be given to promoting access, equity  and quality education for all at all levels, education for sustainable development, education for a culture of peace,  citizenship education, literacy and lifelong learning. My delegation will participate fully in the ongoing process.
35.9 Mr President, finally, my Government commends the Director-General for initiating the reforms and restructuring  the Secretariat. While acknowledging the reforms being carried out, care should be taken to ensure that the Organization  does not lose its most important asset, its staff.
35.10 Tanzania supports the "United Nations Delivering as One" initiative. My Government appreciates the decision to  retain the UNESCO Office in Dar-es-Salaam, which we believe will continue to play an active role within the United  Nations system at the country level. Further, my Government supports the Global Coalition for a Literate World initiative;  the pedagogical use of the General History of Africa; the self-assessment for EFA; and the promotion of science,  technology, engineering and mathematics (STEM) in Africa. I thank you for listening.  Mr Blackburn (Canada) takes the Chair
36. Le Président :   Je remercie le Ministre de l’éducation de la République-Unie de Tanzanie. Notre prochain intervenant est  S. E. M. Teina Bishop, Ministre de l’éducation des Îles Cook.
37.1 Mr Bishop (Cook Islands):   Mr President, Excellencies, distinguished representatives, ladies and gentlemen: may I bid you, in my  indigenous language, Kia orana, which literally means “may you live on”.
37.2 The Cook Islands has maintained its status as an upper-middle-income country with the OECD since the mid-
1990s. Given the external global economic shocks, and the significant number of cyclones our country has faced over  this time, this is no small feat for a country with a resident population of only 14,000 people, however, spread over
15 islands and more than two million square kilometres of ocean. Sustaining our economy on its own will not deliver  continuing improvements to the quality of life for the people of the Cook Islands.
37.3 Throughout the development of the Cook Islands economy, the Government has paid particular consideration to  social development and social inclusion to protect the quality of life of its inhabitants. This social investment has created  opportunities and a “virtuous circle” grounded on our people, their families and their communities. By promoting social  investment, our people have been able to fulfil their potential, prosper and participate in the social, economic, political  and cultural life of our nation. These investments are driven by our national priorities.
37.4 Ensuring that education is of high quality and relevant to the lives of young people creates challenges in our  country. The ability to provide programmes for students on ten inhabited islands spread over two million square  kilometres of ocean, and the ability to meet the needs and interests of all students, requires new ways of thinking about  resourcing and providing access to education.
37.5 We recognize the opportunities of the digital revolution for education and connectivity, particularly of our young  people. Current initiatives include: broadband connections to every school; the provision of netbooks to every teacher;  the launching of our e-school in 2014, where small numbers of students can join others in virtual classrooms; the  integration of iPads, netbooks and other technology into classrooms to expand students’ learning; the provision of special  technologies to students with special learning needs; building public-private partnerships to improve access for those in  the community to the Internet; strengthening our technical and vocational education and training (TVET) programmes;  building second-chance training opportunities; and providing easily accessible pastoral care through counselling and  careers advisory services.
37.6 Our national vision is for a society where all live with dignity, enjoy their human rights, achieve their full potential  and contribute to the development and wellbeing of society. This means that women and girls have equal access to, and  benefit from, the development of the country and are protected from all forms of discrimination and violence. Gender  responsiveness and creating environments in which women feel empowered to participate in decision-making and  governance will enable women to fully participate in the economic and social development of the Cook Islands. We have  more women at senior levels of the public service with over a third of our government ministries being led by women, and  many more holding senior management positions within these agencies. Our Speaker of Parliament is a woman and  women also play a particularly strong role in leading non-government organizations. We have achieved the Millennium  Development Goals around maternal health and offer many other programmes that encourage women to take ownership  of their health care. We believe that these commitments by our Government support the UNESCO global priority of  gender equality. Our commitments also support the UNESCO overarching objective of a focus on the needs and  aspirations of youth and their role as the next generation of change-makers in our development.
37.7 In this global society in which we now live, the Cook Islands cannot do this in isolation. The impact of external  shocks on such a small country, whether by natural events or the influence of economic or political decisions elsewhere,  challenges our resilience. Our Government stands committed to the vision of UNESCO and the objectives of its Medium- Term Strategy. We actively welcome a post-2015 agenda that we can use to build on our strengths and address our  weaknesses. We accept the challenges of such a commitment of our country and will do our part to be a responsible.
37.8 In conclusion, the challenge to UNESCO will be to build such an understanding across all countries so that,  whilst we maintain our individual sovereignty, we work together to meet global goals in a way that is equitable,  empowering and sustaining for the wellbeing of all and particularly our next generation.
37.9 Finally, in the Pacific region, we know each other well. We understand the impact that the decision of one country  can have on the political and financial environment of our neighbours and the livelihoods of those in the region.  Therefore, we seek to support our sister country Vanuatu to be the voice of the Pacific in this forum. Thank you very  much. Kia orana e kia manuia.
38. Le Président :   Nous remercions M. Bishop pour son intervention. Je cède à présent la parole à S. E. Mme Hadidja Alim  Youssouf, Ministre de l’éducation de base du Cameroun.
39.1 Mme Youssouf (Cameroun) :   Monsieur le Président de la Conférence générale, Madame la Présidente du Conseil exécutif, Madame la  Directrice générale de l’UNESCO, Mesdames et Messieurs les Chefs de délégation, Excellences, Mesdames et  Messieurs les Ambassadeurs, c’est pour moi un grand honneur et un réel plaisir de prendre la parole, au nom de la  République du Cameroun, à l’occasion de cette 37e session de la Conférence générale de l’UNESCO. En cette  circonstance solennelle, permettez-moi tout d’abord de présenter mes chaleureuses félicitations à Mme Alissandra  Cummins, Présidente du Conseil exécutif, pour l’impulsion personnelle qu’elle a donnée à la préparation minutieuse de  nos assises. Mes félicitations s’adressent ensuite à M. Hao Ping pour son élection à la Présidence de la Conférence  générale et le doigté avec lequel il conduit nos travaux. Je voudrais également me tourner vers Mme Katalin Bogyay,  Présidente sortante de la Conférence générale, pour lui rendre un hommage appuyé en raison de la compétence et de  l’engagement dont elle a fait preuve durant son mandat. Enfin, il me plaît particulièrement de réitérer mes vives et  chaleureuses félicitations à Mme Irina Bokova, Directrice générale, pour son courage, sa détermination, son dynamisme,  et pour le nouvel humanisme qu’elle a insufflé à notre Organisation. Madame la Directrice générale, il ne fait aucun  doute que les importantes réformes que vous avez engagées et toutes les qualités qui vous caractérisent ont milité en  faveur de votre désignation par le Conseil exécutif pour un second mandat. Je forme le vœu que ce choix soit entériné  par l’Assemblée générale. Par ailleurs, je voudrais vous remercier très sincèrement pour toute l’attention que vous ne  cessez de porter à l’Afrique.
39.2 Excellences, Mesdames et Messieurs, la 37e session de la Conférence générale de l’UNESCO se déroule dans  un contexte international qui l’interpelle plus que jamais, à travers des thématiques directement liées à ses domaines de  compétence. Elle se tient deux ans avant la fin de la décennie consacrée à I’EPT, d’où la forte mobilisation des Nations  Unies à travers l’Initiative mondiale pour l’éducation avant tout, qui entend donner un coup d’accélérateur aux Objectifs  de l’EPT. Cette session se tient enfin au moment où l’UNESCO passe d’une programmation sur quatre ans à une  programmation sur huit ans dans le cadre de sa Stratégie à moyen terme. Nous sommes conscients des efforts  considérables que l’UNESCO a déployés ces deux dernières années pour opérer les ajustements nécessaires dans la  gestion du budget approuvé par la précédente session. En se mobilisant pour apporter leur soutien à l’UNESCO, les  États membres ont démontré que la survie de cette organisation constituait un enjeu majeur pour l’humanité. C’est dans  cette perspective que, sur la très haute directive du Chef de l’État, S. E. M. Paul Biya, le Cameroun a contribué au Fonds  d’urgence, créé lors de la 36e session. Nous sommes convaincus que les sacrifices consentis sauvegarderont les  fondamentaux de l’UNESCO et permettront de préserver son leadership traditionnel.
39.3 Madame la Directrice générale, je me réjouis, en tant que représentante d’un pays africain, de ce que la réforme  du dispositif hors Siège soit pratiquement terminée en Afrique et je souhaite qu’elle se poursuive dans les autres régions  du monde. Le Gouvernement camerounais remercie l’UNESCO, au nom de tous les pays de la sous-région, pour  l’ouverture à Yaoundé du Bureau régional multisectoriel en Afrique centrale. À cet égard, mon pays s’engage à maintenir  l’appui exceptionnel qu’il a consenti au fonctionnement de cette structure, dans l’intérêt bien compris de l’ensemble des  pays de la sous-région.
39.4 Je me réjouis également de la mise en œuvre d’une nouvelle Stratégie opérationnelle pour la priorité Afrique,  sur la base des six programmes phares retenus par le Groupe Afrique. En définissant ces programmes, l’Afrique a  précisé ses besoins, fondés sur la culture de la paix, une éducation de qualité et une formation qui réponde aux attentes  de sa jeunesse. Dans cette perspective, la science, la technologie et l’ingénierie restent des supports indispensables  pour offrir à notre continent les ressources et les compétences nécessaires à un développement durable. Notre souhait  est donc que les sciences soient considérées comme une priorité haute dans le 37 C/4 et le 37 C/5. Le projet  d’introduction de l’enseignement de l’Histoire générale de l’Afrique à tous les niveaux d’enseignement constitue un motif  de satisfaction pour le Cameroun et mérite d’être soutenu.
39.5 Mesdames et Messieurs, la coopération entre le Cameroun et l’UNESCO est dense et fructueuse. Nous nous  félicitons de l’accompagnement de cette institution dans la mise en œuvre du vaste programme de réforme de notre  système éducatif, en vue de l’élargissement de l’accès à l’éducation et de l’amélioration de la qualité de l’enseignement  au Cameroun. Cette coopération s’étend à des domaines tels que l’éducation à l’environnement et au développement  durable, l’élaboration de la politique nationale d’alphabétisation et d’éducation non formelle, la santé en milieu scolaire,  en partenariat avec le Centre international de référence Chantal Biya, la lutte contre le dopage dans le sport, le suivi des  activités du Centre d'excellence des expériences de microscience, du Centre international de recherche et de  documentation sur les traditions et les langues africaines (CERDOTOLA) et des chaires UNESCO dans nos universités.
39.6 En outre, je voudrais signaler la mise en œuvre des activités portant sur l’inclusion et les transformations  sociales, un thème auquel est particulièrement sensible S. E. Mme Chantal Biya, Première Dame du Cameroun et  Ambassadrice de bonne volonté de l’UNESCO. S’agissant des questions relatives au patrimoine naturel et culturel, le  Cameroun s’emploie à mettre en œuvre les recommandations du Comité du patrimoine mondial. Dans le domaine de la  communication, enfin, je voudrais saluer l’élargissement du portefeuille des radios communautaires.
39.7 Avant de clore mon propos, j’aimerais exprimer une fois de plus la profonde gratitude du Gouvernement et du  peuple camerounais pour la constante sollicitude dont ils bénéficient de la part de l’UNESCO. Je vous remercie,  Monsieur le Président.
40.1 Le Président :   Je vous remercie, Madame la Ministre, pour cette intervention.
222  (The speaker continues in English)
40.2 I would now like to welcome His Excellency Mr Madhav Prasad Paudel, Minister for Education, Communication  and General Administration of Nepal.
41.1 Mr Paudel (Nepal):   Mr President, honourable ministers, Excellencies, distinguished delegates, it is a great pleasure and privilege for  me to participate in the 37th session of the General Conference of UNESCO. I bring with me the warm wishes of the  Government and people of Nepal for the great success of the Conference.
41.2 On behalf of my delegation and on my own behalf, I would like to congratulate you, Mr President, on your  unanimous election to the high office. My delegation will extend its full cooperation to you in the discharge of your duties.  With your extensive background and experience, we are fully convinced that the Conference will benefit from your wise  leadership and vision. My delegation is especially happy that you come from a country with which Nepal has had  excellent relations throughout our history. Let me also extend our gratitude and appreciation to the Director-General, Ms  Irina Bokova, for her hard work and the reforms she has initiated within UNESCO. We welcome your nomination for  another term as the Director-General of UNESCO.
41.3 In Nepal, we hold a deep understanding and appreciation of the active roles being played by UNESCO. It has  served as a platform for the development and expansion of knowledge societies across the globe. We are happy to note  that for the peace, progress and prosperity of the humanity, UNESCO's commitment is total. Nepal notes with  satisfaction that during these intervening years, UNESCO has achieved remarkable progress in gender equality,  empowerment of women, promotion of cultural rapprochement, cultural diversity and interfaith dialogue.
41.4 Mr President, UNESCO’s lead role has enabled Member States to accelerate the pace towards achieving  education for all (EFA). Likewise, UNESCO has played a catalytic role in promoting education for sustainable  development (ESD), technical education and vocational training (TVET), information and communication technology  (ICT), science and technology, human and social science and cultural heritage promotion and conservation.
41.5 We extend our sincere thanks to UNESCO for its continued support and guidance for capacity-building  opportunities through its global and regional networking. However, we feel that there is still a need for enhancing the  capacities of Member States, especially for the least developed countries (LDCs) and countries in conflict and post- conflict situations to overcome the enormous challenges they are facing.
41.6 Speaking of my own country, Nepal has witnessed a sea change in the socio-economic and political landscape  during the last two decades. An election to the Constituent Assembly is taking place soon, paving the way for the writing  of a new inclusive constitution which will safeguard the rights and duties of citizens.
41.7 Mr President, Nepal has made significant progress in almost all areas of UNESCO’s concerns. We thank  UNESCO for their strong support and cooperation. The literacy rate is increasing and the new Literate Nepal Campaign  will definitely pay a great dividend. The free and compulsory basic education scheme will ensure every child’s right to  education. Nepal attaches high priority to ICT expansion in schools. An ICT Master Plan and a National Framework of  Education for Sustainable Development (ESD) have been developed. The role of the science and technology sector in  the country’s modernization is well recognized and given due importance for development.
41.8 Similarly, the social and human science sector has been instrumental for reshaping people’s attitudes  inculcating a sense of respect for human rights and dignity. Right to information and freedom of press are legally  ensured. Journalism and the media now bear more responsibility and accountability to the people.
41.9 While we are coping with changing times, we feel we are not yet immune from the problems emanating from  climate change, food security and continuing youth migration for jobs. Nepal recognizes the competence of UNESCO in  water resources management and seeks cooperation in this field.
41.10 Mr President, Nepal is a treasure trove of both tangible and intangible cultural heritage. UNESCO has extended  invaluable support and cooperation to us for the protection of our heritage. Archaeological works carried out in  collaboration with UNESCO and Japan in Lumbini, the birthplace of Lord Buddha, has yielded amazing discoveries at the  oldest Buddhist shrine in South Asia.
41.11 Nepal considers youth as a key human resource and driving force for shaping our country’s future. The  Government thus attaches high priority to empowering and mobilizing youth in various sectors. These efforts are being  supplemented by partnerships of various international and regional institutions. These steps will enhance the capability of  our youth to ensure a sustainable future.
41.12 Mr President, the Government of Nepal is committed to strengthening the Nepal National Commission for  UNESCO to work closely with the UNESCO team at the grass-roots level.
41.13 Nepal is fully committed to the ideals and objectives of UNESCO. Since joining in 1953, Nepal has served only  twice in the Executive Board. In view of the rich experience and contribution it can make to further the objectives, Nepal  has presented its candidature for membership of the Executive Board for the 2013-2017 period.
41.14 I would like to extend my gratitude to UNESCO and other development partners for their continued support and  encouragement for the attainment of EFA goals and Millennium Development Goals. Finally, Mr President, my sincere  thanks are owed to all the stakeholders and local-level partners who have extended their support and cooperation to the  Government and people of Nepal to achieve success in the holistic objectives of UNESCO, reinforcing mutual  cooperation and complementarity. Thank you.
42. Le Président :   Je remercie M. Paudel pour son allocution. Écoutons à présent S. E. M. Konstantinos Arvanitopoulos, Ministre  de l’éducation et des affaires religieuses de la Grèce.
43.1 Mr Arvanitopoulos (Greece):   Mr President of the General Conference, Madam Chair of the Executive Board, Excellencies, ladies and  gentlemen, the 37th session of UNESCO’s General Conference is very important, considering the economic and social  distress in several countries around the globe. Nevertheless, I am convinced that all of us here today believe that the  solution to serious issues facing our countries today can be reached through education.
43.2 Dear colleagues, although the broad mission of education encompasses lofty objectives such as active  citizenship, personal development and well-being, there is also a great need to upgrade skills for employability, against  the backdrop of sluggish economic growth and a shrinking workforce. Investment in education and training for skills  development is essential to boost growth and competitiveness.
43.3 Dear colleagues, despite the economic crisis that has led Greece to a severe recession and to budgetary  constraints that have direct impact on our economic and social policy, Greece has implemented major structural reforms.  Such reforms have been implemented in our educational system at all levels of education. At the level of tertiary  education we completed the “Athena Plan”, consolidating 105 departments of universities and technological institutes  and merging four institutions while completing the process of internal and external evaluation of our universities.  Particular emphasis was given to the evaluation and improvement of the curricula of our technological institutes. We also  started the process of evaluation of the secondary level, secondary and primary level of education after 30 years,  because we are all fully aware that without evaluation you cannot change, you cannot improve, you cannot go forward.
43.4 We have strengthened our public experimental schools. We have reformed our Lyceum, giving emphasis to  mathematics, science, digital literacy and changing fundamentally the process of learning. We are moving away from  sterile memorization to creative approaches of learning. In the professional Lyceum we now give our young students the  skills that are necessary for them to be competitive in the job market and we now offer them a fourth year of  apprenticeship bringing together social partners, businesses and our young students. We have also placed special  emphasis on policies strengthening vocational training and lifelong learning.
43.5 We are in line with the Medium-Term Strategy as it was announced by the Director-General. We also support  the efforts made by UNESCO for promoting education for sustainable development, including education for human  rights, education for intercultural dialogue and inclusive education. Under this umbrella we operate the Associated  Schools Project, with over 150 participating schools, the South Eastern Mediterranean Environmental Project and eight  UNESCO Chairs.
43.6 Ladies and gentlemen, my country fully supports the education for all movement as well as the United Nations  Secretary-General’s Global Education First Initiative, where UNESCO acts as the Secretariat.
43.7 Moreover, concerning the field of natural sciences, which is a means of achieving sustainable development, we  welcome the Executive Board’s proposal on a UNESCO Global Geoparks Initiative.
43.8 Greece also recognizes the major importance of the 1970 UNESCO Convention on the Means of Prohibiting and  Preventing the Illicit Import, Export and Transfer of Ownership of Cultural Property and welcomes the establishment of  the Subsidiary Committee, and we are very happy to have been elected as a member of the Bureau.
43.9 We support the two global priorities, Africa and gender equality. The Observatory on Women, Sport and  Physical Education, a UNESCO category 2 centre, is hosted by the Greek General Secretariat of Sports, because we  believe that women’s and girls’ education and participation in all socio-economic aspects of life is a right, not a privilege.
43.10 In 2012, a part of the money collected through the Athens Classic Marathon, about €100,000 was given to the  promotion of girls’ education in Africa, through UNESCO’s educational programme.
43.11 Ladies and gentlemen, dear colleagues, the forthcoming Greek Presidency of the European Union is a  challenge and an opportunity to work, inter alia, on making lifelong learning a reality, improving the quality and efficiency  of education and training, promoting equity, social cohesion and active citizenship and enhancing creativity and  innovation, which fully respond to UNESCO’s priorities. Thank you.
44.1 Le Président :   Je remercie M. Arvanitopoulos pour son intervention.    (The speaker continues in English)
44.2 And now let me introduce to you His Excellency Mr Pehin Dato Abu Bakar Apong, Minister of Education of Brunei  Darussalam. Mr Minister.
45.1 Mr Apong (Brunei Darussalam):   Your Excellency, Mr Hao Ping, President of the 37th session of the UNESCO General Conference, Excellencies,  ladies and gentlemen, I would like to join other heads of delegations before me in congratulating His Excellency,  Mr Hao Ping on his appointment as President of the 37th session of the General Conference and Her Excellency  Ms Katalin Bogyay for successfully presiding over the 36th session of the General Conference.
45.2 Since the 36th session of the General Conference, Brunei Darussalam has embarked on a number of major  activities as part of its efforts to support and respond to UNESCO's mandate, including the post-2015 development  agenda.
45.3 In the field of education, I wish to reiterate Brunei Darussalam’s ongoing commitment in achieving the  Millennium Development Goals (MDGs). As mentioned in my speech during the Leaders’ Forum, the progressive  development in Brunei Darussalam’s education system reflects such commitment. However, in ensuring that our  education system moves with the times, the Ministry of Education is fully aware of the need to have continuous  evaluation and review processes in relation to the planned activities and outcomes. Additionally, new teaching and  learning ideas and approaches need to be adopted and adapted to our needs and educational context. I will briefly  present a few examples here.
45.4 At the early education level, we are now conducting a feasibility study on the need for early childhood and care  education, specifically to cater for children below the age of five. At the primary and secondary education level, we are  currently looking at improving the students’ learning support system in such a way that no child is left behind  academically. At this stage the development of literacy and numeracy skills receives our utmost concern. In the learning  of science, we have also adopted the inquiry-based science education (IBSE) approach to encourage our students to  become more active and interactive.
45.5 At the higher education level, higher-learning institutions in Brunei Darussalam make serious efforts to develop  students by preparing them to be global citizens who will be ready with the needs and challenges of the twenty-first  century. I will not speak any further about the transformation of technical and vocational education and training (TVET) in  Brunei Darussalam, as mentioned in my speech during the Leaders’ Forum, instead I will focus on the university  curriculum.
45.6 The learning outcomes in the university curriculum are designed to ensure that students acquire important  attributes and skills such as leadership, innovation, entrepreneurship and environmental awareness. The university  curriculum has been designed to ensure that the students excel academically and develop so as to become well-rounded  individuals.
45.7 Universiti Brunei Darussalam, for example, offers a flexible and transdisciplinary curriculum known as GenNext  to ensure that students are able to fully explore their potential in a hands-on and accountable manner, while also  providing thorough and rigorous training across the academic disciplines.
45.8 Experiential learning through study abroad programmes, internships, community service and incubation projects,  for example, are strongly embedded in the curriculum during the third year of undergraduate study. Known as the  “Discovery Year” in our local universities, the programme aims to expose our students to real-life experiences that  support their development as responsible, innovative and dynamic individuals.
45.9 In relation to raising teachers’ quality and professionalism, I wish to tell you that the Ministry of Education  anticipates the full operation of our Brunei Darussalam Teachers Academy. With the motto “For Teachers By Teachers”,  the Academy will provide opportunities for teachers to improve and upgrade themselves with the help of peers and  professionals. In addition to this, we also look forward to establishing the Brunei Teacher Standards (BTS) which will  ensure that all teachers are fully certified before they enter the teaching profession. The BTS will also. be utilized as a  tool to ensure that teaching standards are maintained and improved.
45.10 Mr President, in the field of information and communication technologies, Brunei Darussalam has embarked on  an in-depth study to assess the Networked Readiness Index or NRI for Brunei Darussalam. In the field of science,  environmental protection is an area of concern for the Government of Brunei Darussalam. Some of the key  environmental challenges have already been the focus of Brunei’s “Vision 2035” and ongoing efforts and initiatives are  being carried out so that new policies on waste recycling and management, urban and rural planning, water resources  conservation, prevention of soil erosion, rehabilitation of wasteland and communal natural resources management can  be developed.
45.11 In this regard, Brunei Darussalam fully supports initiatives towards a low-carbon society. Relevant departments  and non-government organizations in Brunei Darussalam have come up with green building initiatives with the aim of  promoting awareness among the people and key stakeholders, which will pave the way to the development of policies  and specific steps related to infrastructure and buildings in Brunei in support of energy-smart low carbon communities.
45.12 Despite Brunei’s steady economic growth, there still remain significant development challenges in the national  science technology and innovation (STI) agenda. UNESCO, with its strong mandate and expertise in the area of STI, can  assist Brunei in the development of integrated national STI policies and action plans as well as the strengthening of  national STI human and institutional capacities.
45.13 Mr President, being a Member State that has ratified both the Convention for the Protection of the World Cultural  and Natural Heritage and the Convention for the Safeguarding of the Intangible Cultural Heritage, on 12 August 2011,  Brunei Darussalam is committed to ensuring that effective and active measures are taken for the protection, conservation  and presentation of the cultural, natural and intangible cultural heritage in the country. For these reasons, Brunei  Darussalam has established two committees that oversee the two Conventions.
45.14 Finally, I end my speech by wishing everyone every success in the deliberations of the subsequent agenda  items and the conduct of other related activities of this Conference. Thank you.
46. Le Président :   Nous remercions le Ministre de l’éducation du Brunéi Darussalam pour son exposé et nous accueillons à  présent S. E. Mme Lisa Hanna, Ministre de la jeunesse et de la culture de la Jamaïque.
47.1 Ms Hanna (Jamaica):   Mr President, Madam Director-General, Chair of the Executive Board, ministers, Excellencies, good afternoon.  Allow me, Mr President, to congratulate you on your election as President of the 37th session of UNESCO General  Conference. Madam Chair of the Executive Board and my sister from the Caribbean, I commend you on your successful  leadership over the last two years, which, I have no doubt, has contributed to the successful execution of UNESCO’'s  programmes. To you, Madam Director-General I extend my own and Jamaica's sincere congratulations on your  nomination for re-election for another term. This is a testimony to your steady and astute leadership amidst the  challenges facing the Organization.
47.2 Ministers, Excellencies, I bring you warm greetings from Jamaica and I address you in the prophetic spirit of our  renowned cultural icon Bob Marley, whose words still hold true – that there is so much trouble in the world. The United  Nations was born out of the need to bring peace and end trouble. In Jamaica our culture was born out of struggle,  especially our music. As I said in the Leaders’ Forum, over the years, we have used our music for mobilization and, in  most cases, a call to action. A confident and sometimes unapologetic acceptance that we, as Jamaicans, know the  answer, and a defiance in the face of great opposition as well as a bold resolve that no one can or should ever bludgeon  our people or any people into acquiescence.
47.3 We are humbled that our culture has transcended language, colour and class with the philosophies of  Marcus Garvey and Bob Marley. That is why all of us can sing one love or be motivated to emancipate ourselves from  mental slavery. It reached into the heart of Usain Bolt who surprised some when he slapped his chest as he crossed the  finish line, breaking the world record in Beijing. But this passionate confidence is not only present in Jamaicans. It can be  seen in millions of youth around the globe in different countries, many of whom are having their own discussions on what  they see as relevant and how they expect their leaders to satisfy their needs. Today, they are the real change catalysts;  they are more tolerant and less suspicious of differences. They use technology to make the world smaller and shape it in  real time. I want to therefore commend UNESCO for its recently concluded Youth Forum, because if we miss the  opportunity to make the connection with our youth we will have squandered our opportunities as leaders.
47.4  Therefore, Mr President, I want to say resolutely that the Government of Jamaica supports UNESCO’s historical  and continuing focus on social inclusion to build the social skills of our people, to build gender balance in our national  development, eradicating illiteracy and poverty and promoting youth development, science and innovation, while  respecting and protecting our climate and environment.
47.5  Mr President, I want to focus primarily on two of our several priorities in Jamaica: youth development and  culture. We are committed to investing in our young people and improving the conditions for our children, including those  in need of care and protection, by increasing our budgetary allocations and working to have more of them stay with  families and in loving environments where possible. Youth make up 53% of our population. We just completed a national  survey consultation with our youth, which, among other things, is driving our youth policy over the next five years.
47.6  Coming out of these consultations we have implemented greater opportunities for youth entrepreneurship,  especially in the face of youth employment and the numbers of youth at risk. Since January of this year we have trained  over 8,500 young people for job placements and have created a new job internship programme for tertiary graduates  through our National Youth Service. This training will continue as we seek to make our youth more self-reliant.
47.7  Mr President, we recognize that a post-2015 development agenda without a cultural component would be  incomplete and indeed inconsistent with its role as a driver and enabler for development. The High-Level Thematic  Debate on Culture and Development at the United Nations in June 2013, as well as the Leaders' Forum two days ago  highlighted the centrality of culture in the global agenda. Jamaica is a culture that has transcended to the four corners of  the globe. We are committed to further enhancing “Brand Jamaica”, utilizing our dynamic culture as an economic  platform for the prosperity of our people. We have just created the National Cultural Commission, led by the Prime  Minister, opened three new museums for people and we are pushing to make culture an economic contributor for people  at all levels.
47.8 Allied to this is the need for greater capacity building and collaboration among States and organizations with  corridors for cultural dialogue for the implementation of the various cultural conventions. And I want to make special  mention of the Japan Fund-in-Trust project on capacity building.
47.9  Mr President, Jamaica does not have a world heritage site. We are currently undertaking preparatory work for  the inscription of the Blue and John Crow Mountain National Park on the World Heritage List. And as Jamaica seeks to  do this, we humbly offer our candidature for membership of the World Heritage Committee and we look forward to your  support.
47.10  As we lament that the lntersectoral Platform for small island developing States (SIDS) appears to be threatened  by the financial crisis of this Organization, we urge that appropriate measures be put in place to ensure the continued  viability of the programme.
47.11  Mr President, the output of our imagination and creativity will be the platforms on which the world will build its  future generation of power. Regardless of who we are, where we come from or our size, our desires must be driven by  the universal purpose grounded in empathy and love to be our brothers’ and sisters’ keepers. It must supersede personal  rancour, ridicule, intolerance and bitterness. We cannot pay our debts with blame or motivate each other with
226  unwholesome values that persecute or harm the most vulnerable among us. Our ability to reconstruct our future must  first begin by reconstructing our own approaches - our dialogue and acceptance that we will need the force of  togetherness to get the job done.
47.12  Mr President, Your Excellencies, let us have “one world”, with “one heart”; “let's get together” and do it right. I  end by renewing our support for UNESCO and support of our government. Thank you.
48. Le Président :   Nous vous remercions, Madame la Ministre. Maintenant, nous accueillons S. E. Mme Fadila Laanan, Ministre de  la culture, de l’audiovisuel, de la santé et de l’égalité des chances de la Belgique.
49.1 Mme Fadila Laanan (Belgique) :   Monsieur le Président, Mesdames et Messieurs les représentants des États membres, très chers collègues,  beaucoup de mes prédécesseurs à cette tribune ont souhaité aborder de front la situation difficile que connaît  aujourd’hui l’UNESCO. Je souhaite pour ma part placer mon intervention sur un autre plan. Virgile écrivait : « La fortune  sourit aux audacieux ». L’audace, par le passé, a conduit l’UNESCO à élaborer des instruments aussi unanimement  reconnus que la Convention pour la protection du patrimoine mondial, culturel et naturel, la Convention pour la  sauvegarde du patrimoine culturel immatériel, ou encore la Convention sur la protection et la promotion de la diversité  des expressions culturelles ou la Convention sur la protection du patrimoine culturel subaquatique, récemment ratifiées  par la Belgique, ce dont je me réjouis.
49.2 Je ne parle pas tellement ici d’encourager l’action normative de l’Organisation, mais bien de retrouver  l’investissement intellectuel et créatif qui a permis de fonder ces instruments, dont l’ensemble des États retirent, depuis,  les dividendes. De même, sur le plan scientifique, l’UNESCO renforce le potentiel des États membres ; sa Commission  océanographique intergouvernementale a un rôle important à jouer quant aux efforts onusiens dans le domaine des  océans, actuellement en plein développement.
49.3 Cette dimension prospective, cette capacité d’anticipation, sont essentielles. Il faut, en effet, se saisir dès  maintenant des grands défis de demain : la coexistence harmonieuse de cultures prétendument antagonistes,  l’avènement des « sociétés de la connaissance et de la communication », le développement durable d’une planète  libérée des menaces que font peser sur elle des modèles d’industrialisation reposant sur des logiques de profit au  service de quelques-uns et sur la destruction de l’environnement. Mesdames et Messieurs, très chers collègues, c’est  bien à la mesure de ces immenses défis que nous nous devons de partager, au sein de cette enceinte qui nous  rassemble, la ferme résolution de bâtir pour nos enfants un monde où ils pourront vivre heureux et s’épanouir. Donnons  un sens et, peut-être plus encore, une éthique à notre action pour qu’au-delà de notre diversité, je dirais même grâce à  notre diversité, nous exercions nos responsabilités à leur égard en conscience et avec discernement. Oui, la situation est  difficile ; oui, les moyens manquent ; oui, les enjeux sont énormes. Mais il est de notre devoir de nous transcender pour  que le futur nous appartienne. Pour que chaque fille, comme Malala, soit respectée et puisse se rendre à l’école. Pour  qu’aucun garçon ne soit contraint de travailler, de voler ou de se prostituer pour survivre.
49.4 Mesdames et Messieurs, très chers collègues, l’UNESCO est plus nécessaire que jamais, elle qui a pour  aspiration universelle de façonner les esprits dans le dialogue, la compréhension et le partage. En cela, elle s’acquitte  d’une mission que n’assume aucune institution spécialisée de la famille des Nations Unies. Dans cet esprit, nous devons  porter toute notre attention sur le renforcement des fondements mêmes du mandat de l’UNESCO qui a consacré  l’éducation, la culture, la communication et les sciences en tant que « biens publics ». J’en appelle donc, à nouveau, à  l’audace de toutes et de tous pour que, débarrassés de nos préjugés, cette aspiration à un idéal universel de fraternité et  de solidarité se traduise en actes concrets à travers des projets novateurs et l’assistance aux plus fragilisés. Je vous  remercie de votre attention.
50. Le Président :   Je vous remercie, Madame la Ministre. Nous accueillons maintenant S. E. Mme Andrea Zlatar Violić, Ministre de  la culture de la Croatie.
51.1 Ms Violić (Croatia):   Thank you Mr President. Esteemed President of the General Conference, Madam Chair of the Executive Board,  Madam Director-General, distinguished delegates, ministers, ladies and gentlemen, allow me, Mr President, on behalf of  Croatia, to congratulate you on your election as President of the 37th session of the General Conference.
51.2 Croatia would like to support the joint statement to be made by the European Union and the candidate countries.  I would also like to congratulate, you, Madam Director-General, on your election and at the same time, to express our  gratitude for your efforts to sharpen the focus and deepen the impact of the reforms within UNESCO. We will give full  support to the reforms that will determine the clear priorities of the Organization, assessing an evaluation of tangible  results and increasing UNESCO’s ability, but trying to position UNESCO once again as a leader in the United Nations  system.
51.3  Multilateral cooperation within UNESCO should try to give responses to the challenges we are facing, from the  global economic problems, inequalities, persistent poverty, conflict, violation of human rights and freedom of expression.  In many ways, our world has made significant progress. However, we are all well aware of unequal opportunities still  present in many parts of the world. We should be aware of the need to implement adequate and coherent strategies and  policies that would create equal opportunities for all of us. Therefore, we strongly support the two global priorities of  UNESCO, Africa and gender equality.
51.4  We believe that culture in all those fields should be considered as a fundamental enabler and driver of  sustainability, a source of meaning and energy, creativity and innovation, and a resource to address challenges and to  find a proper solution for sustainable development and economic growth. In this regard, we are really supporting  UNESCO’s global initiative, “Culture: a Bridge to Development”, proposed by Ms Irina Bokova, Director-General of  UNESCO.
51.5 Esteemed President, Croatia gives its full attention to the preservation of heritage and considers the Convention  for the Protection of the World Cultural and Natural Heritage as one of UNESCO’s most valuable and visible normative  instruments.
51.6 Croatia also considers that in conjunction with the universal spirit that the Convention promotes, the world  heritage sites contribute to intercultural dialogue and the development of economic and human potential. Considering  that the Republic of Croatia has never been a member of the World Heritage Committee, we are convinced that our  candidature should contribute to the promotion of UNESCO 1972 Convention as an important segment of international  cooperation in the field of culture and natural heritage.
51.7 Croatia has actively participated in UNESCO’s work of safeguarding intangible cultural heritage. As a member of  the UNESCO Intergovernmental Committee for the Safeguarding of the Intangible Cultural Heritage from 2008 to 2012,  the tenth anniversary of the Convention is broadly celebrated in Croatia by many international and national events.  Therefore, we would like to confirm once again our support to the normative activities of the Organization, especially in  the field of culture. We consider arts education as an important priority in UNESCO’s Programme, and we would like to  support arts education, international and regional cooperation, and knowledge sharing in the field of creativity.
51.8 Mr President, allow me to say a few words about our priorities in science and education. All the complex  changes that education systems in the world are undergoing are the result of the establishment of systems that are  based on the development of globally competitive knowhow and technologies as well as the proliferation of the plural  democratic society that are founded on the principles of human rights and equality. These processes were initiated by  well-informed, highly educated, creative and motivated citizens and education is the key factor driving this process  forward. In the line of this, when it comes to public education, Croatia has abandoned the principle of teaching and  instruction for the purpose of acquiring factual information and has instead embraced the principle of teaching for the  purpose of knowledge and skills as well as learning outcomes that can be further built upon in harmony with continuous  changes taking place in society, culture, economy, science and technology.
51.9 Dear Mr President, dear colleagues, let me finish with one of the very well-known quotes in Croatia. In Croatia,  this is a UNESCO quote: “to develop intellectual and moral solidarity is as important as in the time of the creation of this  Organization; it is a unique opportunity to join our individual endeavours and enlighten paths to bring more communities  to our future that we will share together, in the arts, education, science, media and communication”. Thank you very  much for your attention.
52. Le Président :   Merci, Madame la Ministre. À présent, nous accueillons S. E. M. Mikayil Jabbarov, Ministre de l’éducation de  l’Azerbaïdjan.
53.1 Mr Jabbarov (Azerbaijan):   Mr President, Madam Director-General, Madam Chair of the Executive Board, dear colleagues, first, please  allow me to thank Ms Katalin Bogyay for an excellent performance during the outgoing Presidency. I would like to  congratulate Mr Hao Ping for his election as President of the 37th session of the General Conference. I am sure that your  able chairmanship will contribute to the success of the General Conference.
53.2 Allow me to extend my congratulations to Ms Bokova for her second-term nomination to the post of Director- General. I am confident that your abilities and experience will lead the Organization to new heights. It is my pleasure to  assure you of my country’s full cooperation.
53.3 Ladies and gentlemen, Azerbaijan attaches great importance to cooperation with UNESCO. We consider it as a  unique platform for international cooperation in the fields of education, science, culture and communication, and a  laboratory of ideas and capacity-building mechanisms for sustainable development, eradication of poverty through  education, intercultural dialogue, ethics and, above all, consolidating peace.
53.4 Azerbaijan fully supports the reform efforts, aimed at enabling UNESCO to meaningfully face the new  challenges. We are convinced that the reforms launched by the Director-General will make our Organization stronger.
53.5 We must focus on flagship programmes that contribute to the achievement of the Millennium Development  Goals (MDGs) and preserve UNESCO’s core mission and priorities. Azerbaijan emphasizes the importance of  strengthening UNESCO’s mandate and leadership in education, particularly through the global coordination of the  education for all (EFA) initiative within the post-2015 development agenda.
53.6 Ladies and gentlemen, cooperation with UNESCO remains at the top of the foreign policy agenda of the  Government of Azerbaijan. This process reached an important milestone last July with signing the Framework  Agreement on Cooperation between UNESCO and Azerbaijan. This document reflects various aspects of cooperation,  including support to the advancement of UNESCO’s global mission in such priority areas as education for all, girls’  education, safeguarding tangible and intangible cultural heritage, science and innovation technologies, disaster risk  preparedness and many others.
53.7 Another of Azerbaijan’s priorities in the framework of cooperation with UNESCO is the safeguarding of tangible  and intangible cultural heritage. I am glad to declare that this year, when culture and sustainable development are in the  spotlight of the international community, and when we celebrate  the tenth anniversary of the 2003 Convention, my  country will host the eighth session of the Intergovernmental Committee for the Safeguarding of the Intangible Cultural  Heritage.
53.8 I am proud to stress the significant efforts of Her Excellency Mehriban Aliyeva, First Lady of Azerbaijan and  UNESCO Goodwill Ambassador, in promoting the message of UNESCO and its core values worldwide. Under her  visionary leadership, the Heydar Aliyev Foundation is carrying out many projects aimed at preservation of cultural  heritage, ensuring quality education and the promotion of science and technologies in Azerbaijan, as well as in other  parts of the world.
53.9 Azerbaijan is one of the unique places where different cultures and religions have been enjoying peaceful  coexistence for centuries. As an active participant of European and Islamic institutions, as well as the Group of Friends of  the Alliance of Civilizations, Azerbaijan plays the role of a bridge between civilizations, enabling us to be actively involved  in the promotion of interreligious and intercultural dialogue.
53.10 I am glad to note that UNESCO participates actively in the preparation of events in Azerbaijan through expert,  technical and informational support. The World Forum on Intercultural Dialogue, held in Baku last May with the presence  and support of Ms Bokova, is one of the outcomes of the commitment of my Government in this regard. The Baku  International Humanitarian Forum, held just a week ago and attended by distinguished pioneers of education, science  and culture, including a dozen of the Nobel Prize winners, is another contribution by Azerbaijan to strengthening mutual  understanding and respect in the world.
53.11 It is with profound regret, however, that I must add that peace, security and stability in our region continue to be  endangered and the UNESCO principles and values remain violated by an ongoing military occupation of the territories  of Azerbaijan as a result of armed aggression by neighbouring Armenia. The international community must take a  principled stance and ensure respect for the norms and principles of international law with a view to finding a fair and  durable solution to the conflict.
53.12 Dear friends, we live in tumultuous times, when there is a desperate need to combine our common efforts to  face global challenges. Our world is still suffering from armed conflicts and hostilities when, along with civilians, cultural  and religious heritage becomes a primary target, being destroyed, looted or desecrated. The situation with the cultural  heritage in Mali, Libya, Egypt, the Syrian Arab Republic and many other locations worldwide can hardly leave us  indifferent, especially as my own country remains a victim of a continued military occupation of its territories and the  destruction of cultural and religious heritage.
53.13 We believe that UNESCO is capable of being more efficient and action-oriented in protecting cultural property in  the event of armed conflict as well as in post-conflict situations, having such unique legal instruments as the 1954 Hague  Convention for the Protection of Cultural Property in the Event of Armed Conflict and the 1970 Convention on the Means  of Prohibiting and Preventing the Illicit Import, Export and Transfer of Ownership of Cultural Property. In this context,  Azerbaijan welcomes the establishment of the Subsidiary Committee of the 1970 Convention and expresses its hope that  mechanisms of implementation of the 1954 Hague Convention and its two Protocols will be reinforced as well.
53.14 Ladies and gentlemen, in conclusion, let me reiterate that the Government of Azerbaijan remains committed to  contributing to UNESCO's global mission in the promotion of peace, security and sustainable development. Thank you  for your attention.
54. Le Président :   Je remercie le Ministre de l’éducation de l’Azerbaïdjan pour son exposé. Les quatre prochains intervenants  seront ceux du Viet Nam, de l’Ukraine, de l’Allemagne et du Japon. Sans plus attendre, nous accueillons le Vice-Ministre  des affaires étrangères du Viet Nam, S. E. M. Nguyen Thanh Son.
(55.1) Mr Nguyen (Viet Nam):    Distinguished President of the 37th session of the General Conference of UNESCO, distinguished Madam Director- General of UNESCO, ladies and gentlemen, at this conference Viet Nam continues to support the efforts of the Director- General of UNESCO, Ms Bokova, to increase the effectiveness of the work, authority and role of the Organization. In the  current conditions Viet Nam continues to share the experience of work with UNESCO, appearing in the role of the organizer of  numerous major UNESCO events on the regional scale such as the consultation of National Commissions for UNESCO of the  countries of the Asia and thePacific region on the two draft documents, 37 С/4 and 37 С/5, in June 2012, the Strategic Meeting  of the Asia-Pacific Biosphere Reserves Networks in April 2013 and the ASEAN Ministerial Meeting on Social Welfare and  Development, to be held in December this year in the framework of UNESCO’s international Management of Social  Transformations (MOST) Programme.
(55.2) Distinguished President, in the UNESCO’s fields of competence, Viet Nam believes that education and investment in  education are exceptionally significant, since the development of education is an essential factor in sound and sustainable  development. My Government currently devotes significant budgetary resources to education, making up 20% of the overall  total of budgetary allocations. Viet Nam has achieved universal partial secondary education and is making every effort to  achieve universal secondary education. In relation to UNESCO initiatives such as education for all and the Decade of  Education for Sustainable Development (2005-2015), Viet Nam is actively implementing a governmental plan of action for  education for all, designed for the period 2003-2015. The plan of action for education for all provides for the creation of  teaching resources for all members of society and the implementation of the programme goals of the Decade of Education for  Sustainable Development. Currently, Viet Nam is effectively implementing the programme of action of the last stage of the  Decade with active participation by all relevant ministries and departments. My Government is willing to share its experience of  the development of education and hopes that UNESCO will continue to expand partnerships and increase technical  cooperation between poor countries and post-conflict countries to ensure that the goals of the Decade are achieved.
(55.3) Distinguished President, in the cultural field, Viet Nam values highly the role of UNESCO in the protection and  development of objects of world tangible and intangible cultural heritage sites and elements. A ceremonial event was held in  September 2012 in Ninh Bình Province to mark the fortieth anniversary of the signing of the Convention for the Protection of  the World Cultural and Natural Heritage (the 1972 Convention) and a ceremony was held in Viet Nam in June 2013 to mark  the tenth anniversary of the signing of the Convention for the Safeguarding of Intangible Cultural Heritage (the
2003 Convention), attended by high-ranking UNESCO officials, the leaders of the Government of Viet Nam and  representatives of local authorities and local residents. This shows that Viet Nam fulfils its obligations relating to the protection  and development of cultural heritage sites, ensuring the observance of the spirit and letter of the aforementioned conventions  in all areas and localities of the country.
(55.4) Viet Nam also hopes that UNESCO will continue to provide technical assistance to developing and poor countries  and post-conflict countries for the protection of sites belonging to the cultural heritage of humanity. As for cultural diversity, my
230  Government follows a consistent policy in this area and considers cultural diversity as a condition for ensuring the equality of  the cultures of all peoples and the basis for strengthening peace and developing cooperation throughout the world.
(55.5) In the areas of science and information, Viet Nam values highly the programmes and initiatives being conducted by  UNESCO, such as the Programme on Man and the Biosphere, the International Hydrological Programme, the Global Network  of National Geoparks initiative, UNESCO’s international Management of Social Transformations Programme and the Memory  of the World Programme. The effective implementation of these programmes helps to enhance UNESCO’s authority and  resolve global problems arising in connection with climate change and sustainable development. My Government calls on  UNESCO to ensure close cooperation in relation with these programmes in the interests of increased assistance by the  Organization in dealing with global challenges.
(55.6) Distinguished President, as an active member of ASEAN, Viet Nam welcomes the signature of the framework  agreement for cooperation between ASEAN and UNESCO. This document will be an important legal basis for the  development of collaborative relations between the two organizations and will be conducive to the creation of the ASEAN  sociocultural community in 2015, in the interest of peace and prosperity in the region and throughout the world.Thank you for  your attention.
56.1 Le Président :   Monsieur le Vice-Ministre des affaires étrangères, merci pour votre intervention.   (The speaker continues in English)
56.2 Now let me introduce to you His Excellency Mr Ruslan Demchenko, First Deputy Minister of Foreign Affairs for  Ukraine.
57.1 Mr Demchenko (Ukraine):   Mr President, Madam Director-General, distinguished delegates, ladies and gentlemen. Ukraine has always  been a strong advocate of UNESCO’s ideals and of its mission. We believe that through research and innovation,  science and education, as well through preserving historical and cultural heritage, a better world can be achieved for all.
57.2 To begin, let me recall the words of the United Nations Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon, in his opening address  at this year’s General Assembly. He said that each year, they come together, not to preserve the status quo, but to drive  our world forward. Those words are very true and should be reciprocated, be it internally or externally, regionally or  internationally. This is what we do in Ukraine.
57.3 Let me be more precise with three key words that follow. My first key word is innovation. In his message to the  Parliament of Ukraine, on the internal and external situation of our country, President Viktor Yanukovych put particular  stress on this. He called for “an innovative social and State development” and for “an innovative investment model of a  national economy” which are possible only through the “maximum use and renewal of scientific and educational  potential”. As such, in Ukraine we follow a common trend that may be seen in other countries, namely, promoting  connections between science, knowledge-intensive business and higher education. It is obvious that innovations should  keep growing stronger. They help to cement sustainable development. To support this trend, UNESCO’s role is also  growing stronger. Take the example of the newly established United Nations Secretary-General’s Scientific Advisory  Board, which has just taken shape. We should wish every success to this Board, as it could, in real terms, help  strengthen connections between science and policy and, as such, drive our world forward.
57.4 My second key word is education. Ukraine supports UNESCO’s efforts aimed at ensuring sustainable  development, including through education and culture, and we have an experience to share: in Ukraine, we have  achieved an effective compulsory secondary education, with the enrolment of over 99% of school-age children in my  country, according to UNESCO data. This rate is one of the highest in the world. However, there is room for further  improvement. Those objectives are set in the education for all (EFA) programme. Willing to contribute, Ukraine has  initiated a ministerial regional conference for Central and Eastern European countries to be held in Kiev next year.
56.5 My third key word is heritage. We believe that sustainable development can only be achieved through civil  peace, mutual recognition and dialogue among religions. As such, in the framework of the World Heritage Convention,  we have put forward an initiative aimed at involving religious communities in the management of world heritage sites.  This is my country’s contribution to enriching the content of the concept of a new humanism of the twenty-first century.
57.6 That being said, one should mention that the ideas of humanism have no boundaries, either in terms of time or  geography. In Ukraine’s history, a philosophy of humanism was prophesized by Taras Shevchenko, an outstanding  philosopher, artist and poet. Next March, in Ukraine and worldwide, the 200th anniversary of his birth will be  commemorated, and we hope that this date will find its deserved place in the UNESCO calendar of memorial dates. We  also believe that a respective place will go to Chernobyl, the largest nuclear breakdown in history. Reference to this  tragedy should enrich the documentary heritage of the Memory of the World Register.
57.7 Ladies and gentlemen, shortly, we will be electing an Executive Board of UNESCO. Ukraine is among the  candidates. If elected, my country will be fulfilling its mission in the Board with dignity and respect, in cooperation with  other Members. Thank you for your attention.
58.1 Le Président :   Je remercie S. E. M. Ruslan Demchenko pour son exposé.  (The speaker continues in English)
58.2 Now I would like to welcome Her Excellency, Ms Cornelia Pieper, Minister of State at the Federal Foreign Office  of Germany.
59.1 Ms Pieper (Germany):   Mr President, Excellencies, dear colleagues, I have to say that this is my first speech here under the new  Presidency of our Chinese colleague, Mr Hao Ping. I would also like to congratulate China on the new Presidency.  Mr Hao Ping, Vice Minister of Education in China, is a very good friend and partner of Germany and that is why I think it  is necessary to say a few words about this new Presidency.
59.2 Excellencies, dear colleagues, UNESCO is a community of shared values which simultaneously defends  essential basic principles and engages in innovative action on the very front line of its field. Its unique mandate is  irreplaceable. We, the community of Member States, need to make sure that the fundamental values enshrined in the  UNESCO Constitution are upheld. UNESCO must not lose its capacity for action; we need it as a forum for education,  science and culture that is open to all nations equally. The preamble of the UNESCO Constitution has not lost its  importance: since wars begin in the human mind, it is in the human mind that we must plant the idea of peace. Ladies  and gentlemen, UNESCO’s purpose is more relevant than ever. Unfettered and responsible exchange of ideas in words  and pictures, and peaceful intercultural dialogue, are key to maintaining peace and security around the world. In the  reconstruction of post-conflict countries and in processes of transformation, UNESCO plays a crucial role.
59.3 UNESCO’s mandate to protect universal human rights – particularly freedom of opinion and press freedom – is  indispensable. Initiated by UNESCO, each year, World Press Freedom Day is dedicated to those who stand up for the  right to a free press and freedom of expression around the world. In this digital age, more than ever, we need to stand up  for freedom of expression and protection of privacy. Civil liberties apply everywhere, online as well as offline.
59.4 Ladies and gentlemen, education for all (EFA) is a resource without which economic and social progress in all  the countries of the world would be unthinkable. Nonetheless, knowledge is still not equally accessible in all countries.  Education is, furthermore, a resource that people should make use of at all stages in their lives. Germany is active in its  support of the concept of lifelong learning and vocational forms of education. We are really proud to house the  headquarters of the UNESCO Institute for Lifelong Learning (UIL) and UNESCO International Centre for Technical and  Vocational Education and Training (UNEVOC), which are implementing those education objectives. They give us the  opportunity to exchange ideas and experience from our national education systems with other countries.
59.5 When it comes to the post-2015 agenda, Germany is in favour of embedding UNESCO’s core issues. Ensuring  that people have a fair say and stake in society – meaning access to knowledge, education, culture and means of  communication – must be the central aim of the future global development agenda. With its broad-based mandate in  education and science as well as communications and information technology, UNESCO will play its part in developing  the ideas behind the work on the second generation of Millennium Development Goals (MDGs).
59.6 Excellencies, ladies and gentlemen, scientific knowledge and political decision-making need to be more closely  linked in future as we shape the global sustainability agenda. The United Nations Scientific Advisory Board that  Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon has established is fulfilling an important function in that regard. UNESCO will maintain a  keen interest in the Board’s work. I am glad that Germany will be organizing the Board’s inaugural meeting next year.
59.7 We must do everything we can to ensure that UNESCO retains its capacity for action. You, Director-General,  dear Irina, have always made clear your resolve to reform UNESCO. You have supported a more efficient division of  labour with other United Nations organizations. For that, you deserve our recognition. The reform that has been started  can only be implemented if all Member States pull together. What matters is solidarity, agreement on common priorities  and the understanding that each country will do its bit and be prepared, if necessary, to compromise. Germany wants to  see a strong UNESCO that can successfully work around political differences and make a meaningful contribution to the  safeguarding of peace. I am confident that this General Conference too will courageously accept the challenge of  urgently needed reform. We need to set clear priorities, put in place modern processes and ensure efficiency by means  of rigorous monitoring.
59.8 Germany is and will remain a reliable and committed partner to UNESCO and its objectives. We will continue to  play our part, providing funds and ideas, to enable UNESCO to fulfil its important task in the United Nations system.  Thank you for your attention.
60. Le Président :   Merci, Madame la Ministre, pour votre intervention. Accueillons maintenant Mme Michiko Ueno, Vice-Ministre de  l’éducation, de la culture, des sports, de la science et de la technologie du Japon.
61.1 Ms Ueno (Japan):   Mr President, Madam Director-General, distinguished delegates, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, let me  express my sincere congratulations to you on your appointment, Mr President.
61.2 The 37th session of the General Conference is extremely important for UNESCO’s coming eight years. The  current financial situation of UNESCO should be taken as a chance to further promote the careful selection of  programmes, the streamlining of administrative operations and the restoration of financial stability. Japan would like to  provide all possible support for the continuous reform initiatives by the Director-General.
61.3 UNESCO should take firm ownership of the global education agenda beyond 2015, while clarifying the  challenges to achieving education for all (EFA). I believe that addressing EFA together with education for sustainable  development (ESD) can bring effective improvement in the quality of education.
61.4 The Japanese Government and UNESCO are jointly organizing the UNESCO world conference on ESD in  November next year in Nagoya City of Aichi Prefecture and Okayama City. Today, representatives of the host city have  joined us here. We hope that many ministers of Member States, high-level representatives from international
232  organizations and a wide range of stakeholders will attend this conference. It provides a good opportunity to reflect on  the United Nations decade of ESD and to discuss concrete action to promote ESD beyond 2014. I also look forward to  an even greater contribution of UNESCO to the discussion on the post-2015 development agenda.
61.5 At the previous session of the General Conference, Japan proposed an integrated approach to global issues  called “Sustainability Science”. It encompasses natural sciences and social and human sciences. We hope this will be  reflected in the Medium-Term Strategy to be discussed at this General Conference.
61.6 UNESCO could contribute further to cultural diversity through the protection of world heritage and intangible  cultural heritage as well as the prevention of the trafficking of cultural property. As indicted in the Kyoto Vision, all the  local communities and other stakeholders should make further efforts to protect and safeguard our heritage.
61.7 Two years and a half have now passed since the Great East Japan Earthquake. The Japanese Government has  been doing everything possible to reconstruct the affected areas and restore the schools. In addition, education  rebuilding is one of the most important policy challenges today in Japan. I believe our experiences may be useful for  UNESCO and Member States to expand and improve the quality of education.
61.8 I would like to conclude by expressing my high expectations of Director-General Bokova’s leadership for  UNESCO’s further development. I hope to see even more Member States offering their full support to UNESCO. Merci  beaucoup, and thank you very much for your attention.
62.1 Le Président :   Merci, Madame la Vice-Ministre, pour votre exposé. Mesdames, Messieurs, les prochains intervenants seront  ceux de la Pologne, des Philippines, de la Fédération de Russie et des États-Unis, suivis d’El Salvador et de la Lituanie.   (The speaker continues in English)
62.2 Let us now welcome Her Excellency Ms Henryka Moscicka-Dendys, Under-Secretary of State at the Ministry of  Foreign Affairs of Poland. Madam.
63.1 Ms Moscicka-Dendys (Poland):   Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Madam Director-General, dear colleagues, please let me start by  congratulating you, Mr President, on your election. I am confident that under your able leadership, we will achieve all the  planned objectives. And I wish you all the best of luck for your new mission.
63.2 Ladies and gentlemen, Your Excellencies, the 37th session of the General Conference is a very special one.  The decisions we are going to take or to adopt will determine the future of our Organization in the forthcoming years. For  the first time, we will approve a four-year Programme and Budget together with the Medium-Term Strategy covering eight  years. I am confident that despite the complex financial situation UNESCO is experiencing at the moment, we will  manage to help the Organization to continue with its mission in a more efficient manner.
63.3 The changes proposed are headed in the right direction, giving the Organization a modern character, adjusted to  the changing world and new challenges. I believe that this modification will strengthen UNESCO’s position within the  whole United Nations system. Let me also, ladies and gentlemen, use this opportunity to congratulate Madam Director- General on undertaking such a difficult task. Madam Director-General, please be assured that we will support you in your  endeavours.
63.4 Ladies and gentlemen, in this context, I would like also to draw your attention to the need to make better use of  UNESCO’s principal advantage, which consists in the simultaneous focus on education, culture and science as well as  communication and information. UNESCO has a unique expertise in all these areas which is, I think, an indispensable  requirement in the process of finding answers to today’s exceptionally complex challenges.
63.5 Ladies and gentlemen, the ongoing debate about the post-2015 development agenda, which has been  mentioned several times already today, continues a crucial part of the work of the whole United Nations system. During  this year, the general debate of the United Nations General Assembly, which I also had the pleasure to attend, the  development agenda was widely discussed. The course of that debate proved clearly that there should be a place for  education and, in particular, for culture among other issues to be reflected in the new development agenda.
63.6 The economic, social, and technological transformations that we have observed in recent years have a direct  influence on the development of knowledge-based societies. An essential role in this process is played by such factors  as the quality of education at all levels, respect for human rights, research ethics including bioethics, and better  understanding of social transformation.
63.7 In such circumstances, education that considers various aspects of personal development and open-minded and  innovative approaches as well as the sustainable use of scientific knowledge plays a major role. The increase of access  to knowledge is a prerequisite for the sustainable development of all countries in the world. We should also remember  the important role of freedom of expression and safety of journalists in the development processes. Without these two  elements, a free flow of information is simply impossible.
63.8 Distinguished delegates, the importance of culture for sustainable development and improvement of quality of  life, both in social and individual dimensions, cannot be overestimated. We believe that the cultural heritage in its various  forms, both tangible and intangible, as well as cultural diversity are closely related to sustainable development and  should be the subject of an in-depth reflection.
63.9 Poland attaches great importance to the World Heritage Convention which, after 40 years of presence in the  field of international cooperation, proves its particular significance for the preservation of the world heritage. That is why  Poland has decided to present its candidature for the World Heritage Committee in this year’s election. We are of the  opinion that the improvement of the preservation of and access to the documentary heritage play a crucial role in  supporting dialogue and better mutual understanding. That is why Poland strongly supports the strengthening of the  Memory of the World Programme and is ready to contribute also financially to its further development.
63.10 Education and science are two elements that we see as necessary to create proper conditions for dialogue  aimed at real understanding and dissemination of information, both by traditional methods and with use of modern  technologies. Here I would like to emphasize the role played in this respect by UNESCO Chairs, UNESCO category 2  centres and World Network of Biosphere Reserves (WNBR) and the UNESCO Associated Schools Project Network  (ASPnet) which is celebrating its 60th anniversary this year.
63.11 Distinguished delegates, in conclusion, I would like to underline how much Poland acknowledges UNESCO’s  crucial role and potential within the United Nations system as a platform for dialogue, place of mutual assistance in  achieving sustainable development and important tool in building and preserving peace. Thank you very much for your  attention. Merci beaucoup.
64. Le Président :   Madame la Sous-Secrétaire d’État, merci. À présent, je cède la parole à S. E. Mme Loren Legarda, Sénatrice et  Chef de la délégation des Philippines.
65.1 Ms Legarda (Philippines):   Mr President of the General Conference, Madam Director-General, distinguished delegates, the first session of  the UNESCO General Conference was held nearly 67 years ago to this date, against the backdrop of a world seeking to  reconstruct from the ravages of the last world war. The goal was clear: to prevent the outbreak of another world war.
65.2 We continue to be faced by wars, some of them more insidious than the wars of the past. Today, 1.2 billion  people continue to live in extreme poverty. More than 1.5 billion people live in countries affected by violent conflict. Four  hundred thousand deaths are recorded each year due to climate change and disaster. More than seven billion people  live in a world that is nearing its biophysical limits. It is not for UNESCO alone to address these issues but, with greater  focus, stronger partnerships and collaboration with the United Nations system, it can make a significant impact in  addressing these challenges.
65.3 The global landscape has changed drastically in recent years as nations have experienced the impact of climate  change and disasters, a reality that the United Nations Secretary-General has referred to as the defining challenge of our  times. Southern Philippines, a region that has never been visited by typhoons in recent memory was hit by Super- Typhoon Bopha in 2012, killing 1,901 people. Bopha is considered the single deadliest disaster in the world that year.  Recently, the Visayas Region in the Philippines also bore the devastating effects of a 7.2-magnitude quake which laid  claim to precious lives and livelihoods as well as historic structures such as centuries-old churches included in our World  Heritage Tentative List. In 2012, our country accounted for 10.2% of total global disaster victims. Nothing can be more  compelling for us than these facts. We have passed national legislation on climate change. We have a twin measure on  national disaster risk reduction that no less than the United Nations Office for Disaster Risk Reduction (UNISDR) has  described as one of the most comprehensive disaster-risk laws in the world. Our national policies have been translated  into awareness and capacity-building programmes to build resilience in our communities.
65.4 The way forward for all of us is to aim for resilience. UNESCO, in coordination with the United Nations system,  can of course contribute to achieving this. I am also pleased to inform this Conference that the Philippines Senate has  adopted a policy supporting the establishment of a Southeast Asia centre for lifelong learning for sustainable  development as a category 2 centre under the auspices of UNESCO that will serve as an educational hub in Southeast  Asia.
65.5 We have also had our milestones in the preservation of heritage and culture, being a historically plural and multi- ethnic society. We have been documenting and reviving the dying traditions of our major ethnic groups and indigenous  peoples. Part of these efforts include the establishment of the first permanent textile gallery in the Philippines, home to a  rich weaving culture so illustrious it would be unforgivable to ignore. We have also put up an ancient scripts gallery,  which showcases writing traditions and artefacts with ancient manuscripts. I am pleased to inform the General  Conference that we have undertaken a serious effort to preserve and manage the once threatened Rice Terraces of the  Philippine Cordilleras. The mobilization of local and community stakeholders together with UNESCO’s and other  partners’ support resulted in the removal of the Rice Terraces from the List of World Heritage in Danger last June 2012.  On the policy front, the Tubbataha Reefs National Park Act has been recognized by the United Nations and the World  Future Council as a model policy for marine conservation, while the historic City of Vigan was rewarded for best practice  in world heritage site management in November 2012. The Philippines is a candidate for a seat in the World Heritage  Committee and we hope to be able to count on your support. At the core of our experience in heritage conservation and  management, peace building and in promoting sustainable development, is the engagement of communities with private- public-people partnerships.
65.6 In the same light, young people need to be seen as partners in our work of preserving heritage and promoting  peace. We support UNESCO’s plans to develop the potential of the youth as change-makers for peace and  development.
65.7 Ours is a world that is propelled by technology. We have seen growth in ways that have created vast  opportunities. We must not forget, however, the fact that we are also living in a world with finite resources and a
234  changing climate. The world is fast changing, and so must our strategies, in order to be more responsive. I wish  everyone a productive Conference in the days ahead as we help to chart a more responsive and innovative pathway for  UNESCO and the community it serves. Thank you and mabuhay.
66.1 Le Président :   Je vous remercie, Madame la Sénatrice. Merci également de nous avoir sensibilisés au super typhon qui affecte  présentement votre pays ainsi qu’à toutes les difficultés qu’il est susceptible d’occasionner pour votre population.   (The speaker continues in English)
66.2 Let us now welcome His Excellency, Mr Vladimir Evguenievitch Fortov, President of the Russian Academy of  Sciences of the Russian Federation.
(67.1) Mr Fortov (Russian Federation):   Distinguished President, ladies and gentlemen, 13 years ago humanity adopted the ambitious Millennium  Development Goals and over the years we have all consistently worked towards their achievement under the leadership of the  United Nations. The results of these efforts are appreciable but I would hesitate to call them impressive.
(67.2) Unfortunately, other facts are impressive: 57 million children worldwide still receive no primary education and half of  that number live in Africa; 123 million young people, 61% of whom are female, lack basic reading and writing skills. This is not  to mention the millions of hungry and homeless people, the high level of mortality from curable illnesses and the numerous  lives lost because of conflicts which flare up, sometimes because of intolerance towards other ethnic groups or religious and  cultural identities.
(67.3) It is therefore correct for the international community to prepare the global agenda for the post-2015 period, which  would include effective resolution of the aforementioned problems and ensure sustainable development for all humanity.
(67.4) It is clear that the post-2015 agenda must include the goals of the education for all programme. Here we fully support  the Global Education First Initiative of the United Nations Secretary-General and the key role of UNESCO in its realization.  Quality education, together with lifelong education, remain very important conditions for the development of human potential.  Success in this area is closely tied to improvements in indicators of employment and economic growth. We believe it is  important to ensure maximum integration of UNESCO’s partnership network in implementing its education programmes.
(67.5) Sustainable development is of course unthinkable without economic growth; this, in turn, is conditional upon the  development of industry and new technologies. We consider that one of the important directions of UNESCO’s work in the  post-2015 period is to bring together the fields of industry and science to ensure sustainable development. That work can be  organized in the framework of the International Basic Sciences Programme which is being successfully developed in our  Organization, as you know.
(67.6) Furthermore, one of the current priority tasks of science today is still to ensure a balanced approach to the technical  and industrial development of humanity together with the preservation of the planet´s natural resources for future generations.  The International Hydrological Programme of UNESCO and the Programme on Man and the Biosphere have a unique role to  play in this context. In this connection may I remind you that, in the framework of International Year of Water Cooperation,  proclaimed by the United Nations, and under the aegis of UNESCO, the seventh session of the All-Russian Hydrological  Congress, which deals with fundamental problems in this area, is being held on 19-21 November in Saint Petersburg, Russia.
(67.7) The Russian Federation attaches equal importance to the activities of the UNESCO World Network of Biosphere  Reserves. Work is currently taking place in relation to the holding in Russia in 2014 of the World Congress on Biosphere  Reserves. Among the key issues for that Congress will be the development of national legislation on environmental protection  and the sharing of forward-thinking experiences in that important area.
(67.8) Particular attention should also be paid to the need to strengthen the Intergovernmental Oceanographic Commission  (IOC), which is one of our Organization’s few programmes that have direct economic impact.
(67.9) Culture has a major role to play in achieving sustainable development. Clearly, we all have a duty to give culture a  special place on the post-2015 agenda. Culture is not only creativity; we see it as an important tool of dialogue and the search  for mutual understanding, and as an area of social reconciliation and development. In this regard, I hasten to inform you that in  Russia, 2014 has been proclaimed as the Year of Culture.
(67.10) I am convinced that the protection of the world cultural and natural heritage must remain a fundamental issue in the  foreseeable future. In Russia, we attach exceptional significance to this area of UNESCO´s activities. Two important events  have taken place in Russia this year: an international seminar on issues relating to the protection of heritage of religious  significance and the first International Restorers’ Congress. Furthermore, there are plans to establish a category 2 UNESCO  centre for the protection of world heritage for the countries of the Commonwealth of Independent States and Eastern Europe.
(67.11) UNESCO has a special mission within the United Nations system: through education, science, culture,  communication and information, to promote the character formation of responsible people, their upbringing, and implanting the  ideas of peace and goodneighbourliness in young people´s minds. An important role in this regard is played by the mass  media and, of course, by the Internet. We believe it is vital to strengthen the Information for All Programme and the  International Programme for the Development of Communication and to continue the rich dialogue on issues relating to the  securing of media and information literacy, access to information and knowledge, freedom of expression and the observance  of moral and ethical standards in cyberspace.
(67.12) The present day is not the most simple, including for our Organization. This is a time to rethink and restructure of its  entire working mechanism. We welcome the Director-General´s efforts to stabilize UNESCO’s financial situation and await the  effective implementation of the projects and programmes with which the Organization will go into 2015 and beyond. Thank you  for your attention.
68. Le Président :   M. Fortov, nous vous remercions de votre exposé. La prochaine personne que nous nous apprêtons à entendre  est quelqu’un de fort bien connu ici, à l’UNESCO : il s’agit de S. E. M. David Killion, Ambassadeur et délégué permanent  des États-Unis.
69.1 Mr Killion (United States of America):   Mr President, fellow delegates, UNESCO has faced its share of both good times and challenging times. Today,  we find ourselves in one of those challenging periods. I assure you: no one appreciates the seriousness of the  challenges this Organization is currently facing better than my government; however, it is important to remember that the  United States has adhered to a principled position over the past two years, a position it articulated well in advance of the  vote in October 2011 to grant full membership to the Palestinians.
69.2 Despite that  decision by the General Conference, President Obama, Secretary Clinton, Secretary Kerry, myself,  and other officials at every level have been working tirelessly to seek a legislative remedy that would allow the United  States to resume paying our contributions to UNESCO. Regrettably, that remedy has not yet been achieved.  Nonetheless, the Administration continues its efforts to restore our funding for UNESCO.
69.3 Fellow delegates, my main message for you is this: the United States remains at the table. Just as we were  present for UNESCO’s founding 68 years ago, the United States remains as committed to UNESCO’s mandate and  purpose today. The United States is proud to serve on UNESCO’s Executive Board as a responsible, constructive and  transparent partner, to discuss issues of reform and restructuring, to encourage the Board to retain UNESCO’s unique  character of consensus and non-politicized agendas and to support the ideals of UNESCO.
69.4 In the education sector, the United States strongly supports UNESCO’s leadership as Secretariat for the United  Nations Secretary-General’s Global Education First Initiative (GEFI). To that end, Secretary Kerry has officially notified  the Secretary-General that the United States would like to become a Champion Country. Our support for the Global  Partnership for Girls’ and Women’s Education, launched on this very stage by Secretary of State Hillary Clinton,  continues to build momentum around this critical issue.
69.5 A complementary initiative is our support for literacy in Africa, and we are pleased to announce that the United  States is reallocating $1.2 million in legacy UNESCO funding from Paris to the Juba field office in order to expand its  ongoing literacy and peace-building project.
69.6 In the science sector, UNESCO, with support from Japan, the United States, and others, has worked to develop  state-of-the-art techniques to locate aquifers in the Horn of Africa. In areas where coastal erosion is a threat, UNESCO is  designing new models to study and better understand the problem.
69.7 UNESCO is a leader within the United Nations system at forging effective partnerships with the private sector.  Particularly in this challenging fiscal environment, it is critical that we identify and leverage innovative sources of funding  through public-private partnerships.
69.8 The United States will also continue to defend the ideals upon which this great Organization was founded –  which include standing up against one-sided attacks on Israel. UNESCO should be above this kind of counterproductive  politicization, which tarnishes the ideals of this Organization and is harmful to the purpose, spirit and integrity of  UNESCO. Likewise, we will continue to stand up against intolerance from any group or government, and press for the  peaceful resolution of conflicts.
69.9 UNESCO is still the house of consensus and peace-building. We need to look for consensus on issues that have  important consequences for all of us. Nowhere is this more true than with UNESCO's unique mandate regarding freedom  of expression. Our debate on Internet-related issues must take place in a spirit of openness and transparency, and with a  commitment to supporting the leadership that UNESCO has already shown with its open, multi-stakeholder approach to  the issue. We must ensure that this discussion develops in a manner that is within UNESCO’s mandate and that we do  not attempt to use this body as a surrogate for dialogue better suited to other fora.
69.10 Mr President, fellow delegates, UNESCO matters. It is at the forefront of facing global challenges and improving  the lives of people all around the world. It expands access to quality education for women and girls; leverages innovation  and new funding streams through public-private partnerships. It protects and preserves the world’s cultural heritage; and  it promotes freedom of expression and the protection of journalists. The United States recognizes that UNESCO is a  critical partner in creating a better future. We intend to continue our engagement with UNESCO in every possible way.
69.11 Although the Director-General is not with us, I wish to offer her my sincere thanks for her friendship and her  strong and inspired leadership. Fellow delegates, in my last national address, I wish you and the Organization the very  best.
70. Le Président :   Monsieur l’Ambassadeur, je vous remercie pour cet exposé. Maintenant, accueillons S. E. Mme Lorena Sol de  Pool, Ambassadrice et déléguée permanente d’El Salvador auprès de l’UNESCO.
(71.1) Ms Sol de Pool (El Salvador) (translation from the Spanish):   Mr President of the General Conference, Madam Chair of the Executive Board, Madam Director-General, Your  Excellencies, Distinguished Delegates, it is an honour for El Salvador to participate in this session of the General Conference  in which we shall discuss and approve a new medium-term strategy and a programme and budget in a period that is  economically difficult for our Organization, the main theme being the post-2015 development agenda. We are in a period of  analysis and reflection on the direction that UNESCO must take in order to maintain leadership in its fields of competence,  especially education.
(71.2) El Salvador reasserts its commitment to education as a basic human right and as a public good. It is of the utmost  importance that the goal of universal provision of education be set within a framework of specific objectives to which Member  States have agreed, which is aligned and ensures harmonization and synergy with the Dakar Framework for Action on  Education for All and which is monitored by UNESCO. Recent times have undoubtedly been a genuine challenge to our  peoples’ prosperity, development and progress, especially those people who have borne the brunt of the effects of the world  economic crisis and climate change. Our government has designed and continues to implement public policies aimed at  reducing inequality by instituting new social-inclusion processes and by establishing new mechanisms for a fairer distribution  of wealth in order to favour the neediest.
(71.3) We faced a challenge in beginning to build a fairer, more equal and inclusive society in order to ensure social well- being, achieve sustainable development and reduce poverty. We have worked hard in such areas as gender equality and the  prevention, criminalization and eradication of violence against women. To those ends, we have formulated, as State policy, the  “Ciudad Mujer” project that fully addresses women’s rights, health, financial independence and action to prevent and remedy  gender-based violence. The full-time inclusive school model extends the education of girls and boys through holistic school  activity by acknowledging grass-roots education as a basic human right for all, since education is not only an investment in  human capital, but also promotes the prosperity and inclusion of those who have been traditionally excluded. Our government  distributes uniforms, shoes, school supplies and school meals free of charge, thus promoting and providing quality education  in dignity for 1.3 million boys and girls.
(71.4) For the first time we enacted a science and technology law, we have sought to improve the teaching of natural  sciences, mathematics and languages through teacher training and responsible use of ICTs, which contribute to quality  education. El Salvador reiterates the importance of the MOST Programme and of research into the impact of social  transformations, which we have used to improve our social inclusion policies, formulate a national youth policy and enact a  development and social protection law that promotes and ensures enjoyment of human rights in conditions of equality, fairness  respect for diversity.
(71.5) El Salvador supports the strengthening of the culture conventions, in particular the 1970 Convention. Owing to the  initiative and joint effort of GRULAC, the Subsidiary Committee of the Meeting of States Parties to that Convention has been  established and will implement measures to prevent the pillaging and illegal export of our heritage that not only preserves but  also defines our peoples’ identity and cultural heritage. We respect freedom of expression and of the press, without ever  censuring the right of each and every person to speak out without fear of reprisal, as occurred in the past. We join those who  denounce irresponsible use made of the Internet that could breach our right to privacy.
(71.6) Trifinio-Fraternidad, the transboundary biosphere reserve shared by El Salvador, Guatemala and Honduras, unique  in the Americas and inhabited by 300,000 persons, is rich in biodiversity, ecosystems and local and shared rivers. The MAB  Programme assists in promoting sustainable development by educating people to conserve rather than plunder natural  resources and so contributes to the three countries’ peaceful coexistence and integration. El Salvador therefore thanks the  Federal Government of Germany for granting €11 million for the management and administration of the biosphere reserve,  thus acknowledging the effectiveness and importance of the MAB Programme in improving our people’s lives and trust in  sustainable development as the means of actually living in dignity and preserving Mother Earth. Thank you, very much.
72. Le Président :   Madame l’Ambassadrice, merci pour cette intervention. Il nous reste six intervenants : la Lituanie, l’Estonie, la  République du Botswana, la Colombie, le Honduras et l’Union européenne. Alors nous vous demandons de faire encore  un petit effort, de rester encore quelque temps pour entendre tous nos intervenants. Merci de votre collaboration. Sans  plus attendre, nous invitons S. E. M. Arūnas Gelūnas, Ambassadeur, délégué permanent de la Lituanie auprès de  l’UNESCO, à prendre la parole.
73.1 Mr Gelūnas (Lithuania):   Mr President of the General Conference, Madam Director-General, Excellencies, distinguished colleagues,  ladies and gentlemen, as I have the honour to speak on behalf of the Republic of Lithuania today, allow me, in the name  of my country, to say how deeply sorry and shocked we were to learn about the murder of two French journalists in Mali.  Lithuania fully condemns any effort to brutally restrain the freedom of journalistic expression.
73.2 Let me start by expressing my congratulations to the newly elected President of the 37th session of the General  Conference, H.E. Mr Hao Ping, and by extending my sincerest gratitude to the former President of the General  Conference H.E. Ms Katalin Bogyay for her inspiring leadership. I know that she is in this hall.
73.3 This year, Lithuania, in association with UNESCO, is celebrating the 100th anniversary of Meilè Lukšiené, the  distinguished social scientist, humanist and one of the main architects of the modern Lithuanian system of education. In
2004 she was awarded the prestigious Jan Amos Comenius medal of UNESCO. Let me quote one of Meilè Lukšiené's  insightful sayings: “Education, upbringing is a very special area of culture as it takes care of the formation of a human  being, nurtures his or her self-creation – thus helping to sustain the very core of culture…”
73.4 In the thinking of Meilè Lukšiené, education and culture were always inseparably intertwined. Therefore,  Lithuania fully supports and salutes UNESCO's firm belief in culture as a driver and enabler of sustainable development  in the post-2015 development agenda. The importance of culture is paramount.
73.5 One has to agree with the subtle insights of those great minds of today that teach us not to overrate the  economic success and not to treat the word “prosperity” as completely synonymous with “economic prosperity”. Material  wellbeing comes as a consequence of hard work and self-discipline, creativity and ingenuity, the rule of law, respect for  the individual freedoms and at the same time the responsibility of the individual to the community but not vice versa.
73.6 This is why Lithuania is delighted to join the chorus of now more than 200 countries called UNESCO that states  the importance of social development and harmonization by means of education, science, culture and the information  society. This combination of voices is still a very powerful one as it reminds global society of today of its core humanistic  values and human rights springing from them.
73.7 Distinguished guests, please allow me to quote the speech of our President Dalia Grybauskaitė, delivered at the  United Nations General Assembly more than a month ago: “The Baltic States have been rapidly transformed in the last  two decades.  Complex and painful economic, political and social reforms boosted economic growth, social well-being  and political stability.  After rebuilding our statehood two decades ago and with the help, advice and experience of the  international community, today our nations became donors and have a lot of experience to share with those who are  going through similar transformations.”
73.8 Not in the least part, the success of our transformation was granted by the modernization of the education  system. Lithuania now has one of the highest tertiary education attainment rates in Europe. This is why Lithuania,  holding a rotation Presidency of the European Union Council, fully subscribes to the ideas of the Statement of the  European Union where they emphasize the centrality of education and underline the holistic approach to education.
73.9 Lithuania welcomes and strongly supports the efforts of the African countries to perform a self-evaluation  exercise of the results of the education for all (EFA) programme by 2015. Our country would be happy to share her  experience and ideas for the future in education and host an international preparatory conference on post-2015  education next year.
73.10 Lithuania has already shared its experience with African countries, even though rather indirectly. A public  opinion survey on libraries, which was conducted in Ethiopia, Ghana, Kenya, United Republic of Tanzania, Uganda and  Zimbabwe two years ago, was based on the methodology developed in our country while carrying out the project  “Libraries for the Future” together with the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation. This project that terminated last year can  be considered as one of the great success stories in the new age of Lithuanian culture, information society and creative  economy: 1,276 public libraries, branches and subdivisions, about 2,000 libraries’ staff participated in the project. The  libraries received technical equipment, they were equipped with broadband Internet connection and were included in the  training activities encouraging electronic service usage and consulting.
73.11 Our country fully supports and praises the initiatives in another global priority of UNESCO – gender equality.  Just in two weeks Lithuania will be proud to welcome a distinguished international audience to the conference on Gender  Equality in Research Institutions. Organizers of this conference firmly believe that “Enlarging the pool of talents in  science through the inclusion of more women researchers is of high significance”.     (The speaker continues in French)
73.12 Mesdames et Messieurs, parfois, certains d'entre nous sont questionnés par leurs amis ou mêmes leurs propres  enfants : À quoi sert l'UNESCO? J’aimerais conclure ces quelques mots, en citant une grande dame de notre époque,  notre Directrice générale, Madame Irina Bokova, à qui fut posée la même question : «  L’UNESCO rend aux peuples leur  dignité ». Je n’y vois rien à ajouter. Merci pour votre attention.
74.1 Le Président :   Merci, Monsieur l’Ambassadeur. Our next speaker is His Excellency, Mr Marten Kokk, Ambassador, Permanent  Delegate of Estonia to UNESCO.
75.1 Mr Kokk (Estonia):   Madam Director-General, Mr President of the General Conference, Excellencies, distinguished delegates,  usually at this time of the day I read bedtime stories for my children so they can fall asleep. I do hope that is not going to  happen to you at this very moment. The present session of the General Conference is of great significance. It will decide  on a new Medium-Term Strategy, which, for the first time, sets out UNESCO’s course of action for a period of eight  years. Estonia would like to fully associate itself with the statement made by the European Union on the way forward.  Therefore I will limit myself to some remarks that are of particular importance to Estonia.
75.2 In the lead-up to the 2015 deadline for achieving the Millennium Development Goals (MDGs) and education for  all (EFA) goals there has been clear progress, but the task is far from complete. Estonia calls for increasing the equity,  sustainability, quality and relevance of education at all levels, including higher education. We believe that a strong  education goal should be at the heart of the post-2015 framework.
75.3 The present session of the General Conference will discuss the desirability of a global standard-setting  instrument on the recognition of higher education qualifications. Estonia considers this initiative to be very timely and  relevant – as academic and professional mobility is growing more across regions than within regions – the world of study  and research is no longer limited by national boundaries. Estonia believes that the global normative instrument should  take the form of a convention and we are ready to contribute to drawing up the text of this convention.
75.4 Expanding the observance of principles of human rights, democracy and rule of law through international  organizations is one of our foreign policy priorities. Estonia’s current membership in the United Nations Human Rights  Council provides us with an opportunity to address human rights issues in a worldwide context. Our main focus is on  those who in many parts of the world often face particular hardships in exercising their human rights such as women,  children and indigenous people.
75.5 Estonia considers Internet freedom to be a fundamental part of human rights. Freedom of opinion and  expression, including through digital media and social media platforms, is the right of every individual and a cornerstone  of democratic governance. The Internet can only fulfil its full potential if it is kept open, free and secure.
75.6 We are looking forward to contributing to the debates in the CI Commission on Internet-related issues, including  access to information and knowledge, freedom of opinion and expression, privacy and ethical dimensions of the  information society.
75.7 We commend UNESCO for promoting freedom of opinion and expression on Internet as well as multi- stakeholder model-based governance in United Nations system and other formats. We encourage UNESCO to continue  its activities in this field and to widen its outreach and partnerships. In this context Estonia is pleased to note UNESCO’s  cooperation with the Freedom Online Coalition, which Estonia is coordinating this year. We are looking forward to  continuing our fruitful cooperation with UNESCO in this regard.
75.8 Let me come to another important item: UNESCO’s work in culture. The extensive normative action of the  different culture conventions has been acknowledged by the Executive Board as a priority of UNESCO’s action in the  field of culture. Estonia fully agrees that this prioritization must have direct implications on the way our scarce financial  resources will be refocused.
75.9 While UNESCO may be able to provide for most of the related statutory functions within the current expenditure  plan, it is more challenging to meet Member States’ expectations on capacity building and technical assistance that  would make conventions fully operational and working at a ground level.
75.10 Our delegation would like to highlight the work done by the secretariat of the 2003 Convention in successfully  implementing an ambitious global capacity-building strategy with a special focus on the needs of the developing  countries. We also note with delight that despite financial challenges, ways have been found to continue with innovative  initiatives such as the Creative Cities Network.
75.11 However, the question of the credibility and efficiency of certain conventions remains critical in our view. While  the 1970 Convention has been considerably strengthened during the last biennium, it takes time for these changes to  have a concrete impact on the ground. The 1972 World Heritage Convention faces management challenges and the  increasing politicization of the World Heritage Committee compromises the credibility of the Convention.
75.12 Much has been done in the last biennium in reforming and restructuring the Organization. The governing bodies  need also to continue their reflection on how to make the sessions more cost-effective and focused. This part of the  General Conference is called the general policy debate, but it lacks elements of the debate and the hall, at least this  Friday evening, is far from being crowded. I think that the Special Committee of the Executive Board at its last session  discussed the means to rationalize the format of presenting national statements at the Board’s plenary. We believe that  the format of the general policy debate of the General Conference needs further reflection as well.
75.13 Finally, I would like to take this opportunity to reaffirm Estonia’s commitment to UNESCO, an engagement  further reflected in our candidacy to the Executive Board. Thank you for your attention.
76. Le Président :   Monsieur l’Ambassadeur, je ne sais pas si vous avez des difficultés à endormir les enfants, si cela vous prend  beaucoup de temps, mais c’est très intéressant. Merci. Nous allons maintenant entendre S. E. M. Samuel Otsile Outlule,  Ambassadeur extraordinaire et plénipotentiaire de la République du Botswana en France et à l’Union européenne.
77.1 Mr Outlule (Botswana):   Thank you, Mr President. Madam Director-General of UNESCO, Madam Chair of UNESCO Executive Board,  Excellencies, distinguished delegates, good evening. Thank you for being here until so late. My delegation and I bring to  you warm greetings from His Excellency the President, Lieutenant General Seretse Khama Ian Khama, and the people  of the Republic of Botswana. The President has requested me to reassure you of the continued commitment, dedication  and strong support of the Government of the Republic of Botswana to the ideals and aspirations of UNESCO.
77.2 I also wish to register the congratulations of the delegation of Botswana to Mr Hao Ping on his election to the  Presidency of the 37th session of the General Conference. We reassure you of our goodwill and you can count on our  support and cooperation as you provide leadership, guidance and direction to the 37th session of the General  Conference and the ensuing biennium.
77.3 Mr President, Botswana commends the Director-General and her team of technical experts and professionals,  for a well-considered and structured strategy, which, out of necessity, was developed in consultation with Member  States. We appreciate the hard work and dedication of the Secretariat in the design of the Medium-Term Strategy and  the strategic resolve by UNESCO in increasing focus, coherence, relevance and impact, based on the principle of  results-based management through and by working closer to the field and strengthening UNESCO’s partnerships.
77.4 Mr President, allow me now to highlight some of the major achievements by Botswana in the field of education.  Following the official launch of the Education for All Global Monitoring Report 2012, with a theme “Youth and skills:  Putting education to work”, Botswana decided to evaluate the performance of its education for all (EFA) programme. I am  delighted to share our experience with Member States and to report that Botswana has attained all ten “UNESCO Youth  Skills: Pathways to a Better Future”. This is a demonstration of the excellent response and readiness of bilateral and  multilateral partnerships, and within the country, the partnership with industry, private sector, civil society, communities  and the general public to be dependable partners in education.
77.5 Botswana is making concerted efforts to revitalize technical and vocational education and training (TVET)  consistent with UNESCO’s priorities. A number of international agencies and development partners are working with us  to revitalize TVET as a driver of Botswana’s economic diversification drive. We are working with UNESCO and the  Republic of Korea on the Better Education for Africa’s Rise (BEAR) project, which aims at skills development in  hospitality and tourism. The project has attracted 24 companies, and 18 lecturers from TVET institutions have been  trained in TVET curriculum development. In addition, we are implementing a capacity-building programme targeting  TVET institutions including Teachers for TVET and the Leadership as well as the Upskilling of Mining Artisans  programme.
77.6  In July 2013, Botswana hosted a capacity-building seminar for National Commissions of UNESCO for the  Southern Africa region. The seminar was a collaborative effort between the participating Member States and the German  Commission for UNESCO. The seminar was organized around the theme “Africa First-Education First: Sharing Good  Practice”. A side workshop on TVET was also held with the theme “Transformation of Technical and Vocational  Education and Training: Skills Base for Economic Diversification Drive Strategy Across the Southern African Region”.  The workshop was facilitated by a TVET expert from the German Federal Institute for Vocational Education and Training  (BIBB).
77.7 Mr President, Botswana continues to tackle issues of climate change. In May 2012 we successfully convened a  Summit for Sustainability in Africa which created a platform for Africa’s preparations towards the Rio+20 Conference. In  October 2013, the Government of Botswana hosted a review of the May 2012 Gaborone Declaration for Sustainability in  Africa as an integral part of the preparations for the Warsaw Climate Change Conference. We recognize that issues of  climate change and the resultant global warming, threaten our food security efforts. Food security is one of the strategic
241  pillars of eradicating poverty in Botswana. The National Disaster Management Office in collaboration with other ministries  builds capacity through public education on the importance of disaster reduction and preparedness as essential  ingredients towards management of climate change in its various forms.
77.8 Mr President, Botswana appreciates the capacity-building initiatives that are carried out by various Member  States in collaboration with UNESCO Headquarters and the field offices. Such initiatives further strengthen South-South  and North-South collaboration. Botswana is grateful for this continued support received through bilateral and multilateral  arrangements. Mr President, in conclusion, Botswana joins other Member States in supporting the Medium-Term  Strategy and its operational plan and the Draft Programme and Budget for 2014-2015. I thank you for your attention.
78. Le Président :   Monsieur l’Ambassadeur, nous vous remercions de votre présentation. Trois personnes doivent encore  s’adresser à nous. D’abord, M. Sergio Restrepo, Chargé d’affaires de la délégation permanente de la Colombie auprès  de l’UNESCO.
(79.1) Mr Restrepo (Colombia) (translation from the Spanish):   Mr President, allow me to extend greetings to you and to congratulate you on your election by acclamation. Madam  Chair of the Executive Board, Madam Director-General, Distinguished Ministers, Heads of Delegation, Ambassadors and  Delegates, Colombia reasserts UNESCO’s mission as a laboratory of ideas for achieving peace, sustainable development and  poverty reduction. Colombia proposed, at the Río+20 Conference, that the goals of sustainable development be defined and  therefore supports initiatives promoted by UNESCO to those ends.
(79.2) Mr President, Colombia regards the current reform process as a key opportunity for strengthening the Organization’s  action in those areas in which it has demonstrated its comparative advantage and for achieving institutional change that  contributes to its strategic position. In education, UNESCO is the main reference point for the strengthening of Colombia’s  public policies through which the six education for all goals have been included in the Colombian context. Owing to action  taken by the national government to that end, there are now an additional one million children enrolled in Colombia. Similarly,  Colombia is committed to the strengthening of technical and vocational education and training in a bid to ensure that higher  education meets the needs of the labour force more effectively and lowers youth unemployment levels. Today, 800,000 young  people are being trained through the national apprenticeship service (SENA) under technological and technical schemes, 76%  of which are linked to the formal economy.
(79.3) Our achievements in the field of culture are the outcomes of Colombia’s recognition of culture as an integrative factor  of peace and as a key component of the development agenda. Mr President, in Colombia there are more than four million  people of African descent who account for 10% of the national population and enrich our traditions and heritage daily. Against  that background, the Ministry of Culture has implemented a plan of action to strengthen cooperation that is of benefit to those  communities. Our country has welcomed events such as the meeting of the International Scientific Committee for the Slave  Route Project and, more recently, in September 2013, the third World Summit of Mayors and Leaders of African Descent,  which was attended by more than 2,000 world leaders in our country. As members of the World Heritage Committee, we have  had the honour of representing Latin America and the Caribbean and of promoting frank and open dialogue with the advisory  bodies of the 1972 Convention and the States Parties thereto. Colombia also urges States Parties to the 1970 Convention to  strengthen activities designed to prevent trafficking and the illicit appropriation of cultural property. Similarly, it is important to  stress that in June 2013 Colombia ratified the Convention on the Protection and Promotion of the Diversity of Cultural  Expressions.
(79.4) In the natural sciences, emphasis should be laid on Colombia’s role in biodiversity and ocean matters. In biodiversity,  Colombia is the second richest country in species in the world. Allow me, therefore, to highlight the importance of the Man and  the Biosphere Programme as a means of teaching integrated public policy design for protected areas, in which Colombia has  strengthened management to boost sustainability and research. We support the MAB Programme’s objectives through the  conservation and protection of the five biosphere reserves in our country. Colombia, washed by the Atlantic and Pacific  Oceans, has honoured its commitment to oceanographical research activities and the development of tsunami early-warning  and disaster prevention programmes, thus promoting capacity building to mitigate the adverse effects of climate change. The  work of the Intergovernmental Oceanographic Commission and its Sub-Commission for the Caribbean and Adjacent Regions  (IOCARIBE), headquartered in Cartagena (Colombia), is crucial to the continuity of these initiatives; we therefore reiterate the  importance of cooperation in this field.
(79.5) In the social and human sciences, Colombia has since 2011 been a member of the Intergovernmental Committee for  Physical Education and Sport, which promotes the practice of sport as a tool for social cohesion. It was a great honour to host  in October 2013 the first follow-up meeting to the fifth session of International Conference of Ministers and Senior Officials  Responsible for Physical Education and Sport in the Latin America and Caribbean region, attended by more than 30 experts  and senior officials from 14 countries, who reiterated their commitment to the Declaration of Berlin.
(79.6) In information and communication technology, we implemented the Live Digital plan in 2010 in order to increase  Internet connexions fourfold by 2014, from 2.2 million to 8 million, primarily serving rural dwellers and border towns. UNESCO  should therefore continue to strengthen its role as leader in this field through the Information for All Programme (IFAP).
(79.7) To conclude, may I reiterate, on behalf of Mr Juan Manuel Santos, the President of the Republic, Colombia’s  conviction of the importance of UNESCO in the current world context which continues to change ever so quickly and requires  the United Nations system to respond promptly and effectively. We hope that owing to the proceedings of this session of the  General Conference, complemented by the Director-General’s successful management to date, UNESCO will be equipped  with those instruments that it requires in order to reassert its effectiveness in constructing the defences of peace in the minds  of men. Thank you very much.
80. Le Président :   M. Restrepo, nous vous remercions de votre présentation. Maintenant, accueillons M. Carlos Enrique Maradiaga  Melara, Chargé d’affaires de la délégation permanente du Honduras auprès de l’UNESCO.
(81.1) Mr Maradiaga Melara (Honduras) (translation from the Spanish):   Mr President of the General Conference, Hao Ping, Madam Chair of the Executive Board, Alissandra Cummins,  Madam Director-General, Irina Bokova, Distinguished Delegates and Ambassadors, during this debate we have listened with  great interest to deeply thought-provoking statements and messages. We have listened to President Laura Chinchilla, who has  reminded us of the importance of strengthening the democracy of education and culture to ensure that citizens can draw on  the most enlightened views in order to exercise of their rights in full. President Rafael Correa has stressed the urgent and  imperious need to combat inequality by investing in human talent, science and technology. UNESCO should promote such  calls, but there are many other voices were heard here a few days ago – the voices of the new generations, who must  genuinely take part in major world decisions as they are the masters of the present and of the future: the voices of youth.
(81.2) Madam Director-General, friends and delegates, the young people from all over the world who thronged in these  halls a few days ago agreed on a key idea – the imperious need to build and strengthen the citizenship’ capacities of all by  promoting dialogue as an instrument of peace and by setting social inclusion as a primordial objective. I invite you to read the  document containing the conclusions of the Youth Forum because it is a document that transmits hope, reflects optimism and  displays commitment to the loftiest ideals of this house of humanism which, to quote President Correa, “was created for  utopias”. Honduras is strongly committed to youth and believes firmly that our efforts must be invested in youth. We support
244  their enthusiasm and the freshness of their ideals for a better world. We should like young people to be more integrated into  UNESCO and UNESCO to be more interested in young people. Distinguished colleagues, I believe that we have much to  learn from young people.
(81.3) Another outstanding point in the conclusions of the Youth Forum is strong awareness of the need to live in harmony  with our natural environment, with that biological logic that is superior to ours and, although we rarely remember this, that  secures our existence. For several decades, the Man and the Biosphere (MAB) Programme has promoted the logic of  conservation that we have used to exploit our natural environment in order not only to subsist but also to develop. The MAB  Programme is increasingly relevant and necessary, especially now that the world faces the effects of climate change. These  challenges demand greater strengthening of the MAB Programme and better agreements to secure countries’ and regions’  commitment to the quest for solutions so that we can live together in respect for and in harmony with nature. With great pride,  we uphold as an example Trifinio-Fraternidad, the tri-national reserve shared by El Salvador, Guatemala and Honduras and  the first transboundary reserve in Latin America. Trifinio not only symbolises our peoples’ unity, but also represents our pride in  sharing generous and exuberant nature that must be accommodated and defended, out of gratitude because it accommodates  us and allows us to live in and off it.
(81.4) In its endeavour to build peace in the minds of men and women and in its quest for harmony with nature, UNESCO  has promoted programmes of great worth and importance to the present and the future of humanity, and so, drawing on  harmony with nature, we must also search for harmony among peoples and in our societies in order to understand  developments and changes in our communities and to anticipate our responses to their pressing demands. With great joy and  pride we can say that the Latin America and the Caribbean region has experienced strong economic growth in recent years  but continues, unfortunately, to be the world region in which social inequality is greatest and, despite the economic successes  of some countries in our region, there is still great unfairness in access to education, training and culture. This is an  inescapable human truth. Natural disasters, climatic problems, migration, organized crime and a thousand other problems  cause despair, social fragmentation, insensitivity, school dropout, and loss of solidarity. These are all human problems.
(81.5) Mr President of the General Conference, Madam Director-General, friends and delegates, UNESCO is, as I noted  earlier, the house of humanism, of a new humanism, as our Director-General reminds us frequently. In the light of that basic  principle we cannot continue to classify States maintaining relations with Organization on the basis of macroeconomic criteria  only, inasmuch as our problems are mainly human. Today Central America needs more UNESCO more than ever before and,  on many occasions, we have, as have several States here, called for a better UNESCO.
(81.6)  Mr President of the General Conference, friends and delegates, this is a key moment for our Organization.  Strategies and plans of action are being defined for the next few years, and the process to reform and modernize UNESCO is  being deepened. UNESCO must focus on what it does well and must strive to do it better. Owing to the programme-  prioritization drive conducted by the Executive Board a few months ago, the programmes in which the greatest effort must be  invested have undoubtedly been identified for us. That is where support must be concentrated. The MAB Programme, the  culture conventions – especially the 1970 and 2005 Conventions – and education for all are, from the standpoint of Honduras,  unavoidable priorities, priorities that have proven their importance and effectiveness but are, above all human priorities and  world priorities.
(81.7) Honduras is firmly convinced that UNESCO can gain visibility only by improving the Organization’s presence on the  ground, for we consider that the most effective means of boosting the Organization’s visibility and importance is by ensuring its  presence among and proximity to the people. It is proximity to each national reality that guarantees the importance and  relevance of the Organization. Thank you very much.
82. Le Président :   M. Maradiaga Melara, nous vous remercions également pour votre présentation. Je cède à présent la parole à  notre dernière intervenante, l’Ambassadrice, déléguée permanente de l’Union européenne auprès de l’UNESCO,  Mme Maria Francesca Spatolisano.
83.1 Ms Spatolisano (European Union):   Mr President of the General Conference, Madam Chair of the Executive Board, Madam Director-General,  Excellencies, ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to speak on behalf of the European Union and five candidate  countries: the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, Iceland, Montenegro, Serbia and Turkey. Albania also associates  itself to this statement.
83.2 One year has passed since UNESCO and the European Union signed the Memorandum of Understanding. By  doing so, both Organizations reaffirmed their common values: upholding of human rights, freedom, equality, democracy  and the rule of law.
83.3 UNESCO has an important role to play in the United Nations family, not only in the post-2015 framework, but  also as a coordinator of several global United Nations initiatives. We praise the United Nations Secretary-General’s  Global Education First Initiative to boost efforts to deliver the promise of education for all. Still, there is much left to do.  For example, in 28 countries, more than 15% of the children did not go to school in 2010. The EU’s ambition is to ensure  that by 2030, every child completes at least basic education and has basic literacy and numeracy skills. The European  Union wants to promote a balanced development of the whole education sector, from early childhood to vocational and  tertiary education, including lifelong learning. We are determined to support countries that are most off-track from  education goals and to improve access to equitable and quality learning. The European Union has hosted several  conferences on education and development. The next one of the Global Partnership for Education will be held in  Brussels in June 2014.
83.4 The Presidency of the European Council also looks forward, as I said before, to welcoming UNESCO in Vilnius  in two weeks’ time to discuss gender equality in research institutes. Gender equality must indeed continue to be a  priority. This year, the International Day of the Girl Child focused on “Innovating for Girls’ Education”. It coincided with the  award of the European Union’s Sakharov Prize for Freedom of Thought to Malala Yousafzai on 10 October. She is really  an example of courage that inspires all of us. As evidence of our determination to support children's right to education,
245  the European Union last year, let me recall, donated the money for the Nobel Prize awarded to support education for  children affected by conflicts in a number of countries.
83.5 The European Union reaffirms the strong link between human rights, culture and development. We see culture  as a contributor in the achievement of shared objectives within the wider post-2015 development framework. We are  committed to supporting the cultural and creative sectors in developing countries, and helping to preserve the diversity of  tangible and intangible heritage. In the area of diversity of cultural expressions, the European Union has worked with  UNESCO to implement an expert facility on governance of culture, which has benefited 13 partner countries. The  European Union has also been strongly involved in supporting the preservation and promotion of world heritage. We  thank UNESCO for its initiatives, such as the action plans for Mali’s and the Syrian Arab Republic’s cultural heritage and  we remain committed to alleviate, also in UNESCO’s fields of competence, the human plight of the affected Syrian  people living in and outside their country.
83.6 The European Union also supports the safeguarding of living cultural heritage in Egypt, Jordan and Lebanon.  Currently, we are preparing a pan-African workshop on the protection of cultural goods against plunder, theft and illicit  trafficking within the context of the Africa-EU Partnership. We welcome the enhanced implementation of the 1970  Convention on the Means of Prohibiting and Preventing the Illicit Import, Export and Transfer of Ownership of Cultural  Property. We believe the implementation of the cultural conventions must remain at the core of UNESCO’s programme.
83.7 Free and independent media are crucial as a means to protect and promote human rights and fundamental  freedoms. The European Union will continue to promote freedom of expression, as democracy cannot exist without these  rights and we believe a global and open Internet is necessary to accelerate progress towards development. The same  norms, principles and values that we uphold offline, must also apply online. The European Union supports a multi- stakeholder approach in discussions on Internet-related issues.
83.8 UNESCO is the United Nations agency with a mandate to defend freedom of expression and press freedom.  The European Union will continue to condemn violations of the right to freedom of expression in all media, and supports  UNESCO’s leading role in this field as a coordinator of the United Nations Plan of Action on the Safety of Journalists and  the Issue of Impunity.  (The speaker continues in French)
83.9 Monsieur le Président, la science, la technologie et l’innovation (STI) sont des forces motrices du  développement durable et du progrès social. C’est pourquoi le 7e Programme-cadre de l’Union européenne a alloué
350 millions d’euros à des chercheurs en Afrique, en Asie, en Amérique latine, dans les pays du sud de la Méditerranée,  ainsi que 14 millions d’euros aux activités de l’UNESCO en matière de STI. Le prochain Programme-cadre pour la  recherche et l’innovation, baptisé « Horizon 2020 », favorisera dès 2014 l’intensification des partenariats dans le monde  entier, y compris avec les organisations internationales, au premier rang desquelles, nous le souhaitons, l’UNESCO.
83.10  Les 28 chefs de gouvernement ayant acté la nécessité de prendre des décisions en faveur des jeunes, l’Union  européenne, comme annoncé lors du 8e Forum des jeunes, contribuera à hauteur de 8 millions d’euros à la mise en  œuvre, par l’UNESCO, d’un programme consacré à la jeunesse et aux médias dans la région de la Méditerranée.
83.11 Nous apportons également notre soutien financier aux projets portant sur la réponse aux tsunamis en Haïti, la  transparence des médias en Europe du Sud-Est, la formation professionnelle des réfugiés syriens en Jordanie, ainsi  qu’à l’Équipe spéciale internationale sur les « Enseignants pour l’Éducation pour tous ».
83.12 De nouveaux projets sont sur le point d’être financés, concernant par exemple les ressources en eau  souterraine en Iraq, à hauteur de 5 millions d’euros. Depuis la signature du protocole d’accord, il y a un an, le montant  des contributions volontaires des institutions de l’Union européenne au bénéfice de l’UNESCO a ainsi été porté à près  de 35 millions d’euros.
83.13 Monsieur le Président, l’Union européenne milite pour un système multilatéral efficace et performant. Nous  saluons à cet égard les réformes entreprises par la Directrice générale et l’encourageons à poursuivre ses efforts pour  l’essor d’une culture de responsabilité. Nous saluons également l’évolution de l’Organisation vers un processus de  décision fondé sur des données factuelles et prenons acte de la nécessité pour les États membres de réformer les  organes directeurs. Nous soutenons enfin la décision de la 5e session extraordinaire du Conseil exécutif de définir des  priorités programmatiques et budgétaires.
83.14 Nous avons aussi conscience que leur mise en œuvre nécessitera des décisions difficiles. Nous sommes  cependant convaincus de l’importance de la mission accomplie au quotidien par l’UNESCO dans de nombreuses régions  du monde, et nous ne doutons pas que cette mission continuera d’être menée à bien avec le professionnalisme et le  dévouement qui caractérisent le personnel de l’Organisation. Monsieur le Président, Madame la Directrice générale,  soyez-en assurés, l’Union européenne reste fermement engagée auprès de l’UNESCO que vous représentez, une  UNESCO de haute qualité. Merci à tous.
84. Le Président :   Madame Spatolisano, nous vous remercions de cet exposé. Vous étiez la dernière oratrice de la journée et votre  intervention était fort intéressante. Mesdames et Messieurs, Excellences, cela met fin à nos travaux pour aujourd’hui. La  séance plénière reprendra demain matin à 10 heures. Je vous rappelle que demain, c’est samedi. Nous aurons plaisir à  vous accueillir en grand nombre ici. Bonne fin de soirée à tous. La séance est levée.  The meeting rose at 7.50 p.m.  La séance est levée à 19 h 50  Se levanta la sesión a las 19.50  Заседание закрывается в 19.50  بعد الظهر ٧,٥٠ الساعة يف اسلسة رفعت   会议于 19 时 50 分结束