1. The President:   Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. I declare open the seventeenth plenary meeting of the General  Conference. The last day of the 37th session will be dedicated to the examination of the remaining reports of the  commissions and committees and to the adoption of the Appropriation Resolution. Without further ado, ladies and  gentlemen, I invite you to examine the report of the Culture Commission which is contained in document 37 C/74. I invite  her Excellency Ms Melbarde, who presided over the Culture Commission, to present this document. You have the floor,  Madam.
2.1 Ms Melbarde (Latvia) (Chairperson of the Culture Commission):   Thank you, Mr President, Director-General of UNESCO, distinguished delegates, ladies and gentlemen, I would  like to thank the Member States of UNESCO for having entrusted me with the important and rewarding task of chairing  the Culture Commission. The members of our Commission actively participated in the debate, with commitment and  efficiency, which enabled us to conduct our discussions in a productive manner. The meeting started on 14 November  and finished ahead of schedule on 15 November 2013. The recommendations of the Culture Commission are reflected in  document 37 C/74.
2.2 The Bureau, elected by the Commission, included three Vice-Chairpersons: Mr Luis Brea from the Dominican  Republic, Mr Michael Manalo from the Philippines and Mr Pierre Akpona from Benin; and the Rapporteur was  Mr Francesco Tafuri from Italy.
2.3 The Commission adopted the proposed timetable, which divided its work into five debates, without change. A  total of 335 interventions were made over two days.
2.4 As a side event of the Commission, on 14 November 2013, the third edition of the United Nations Creative  Economy Report was launched by the Director-General of UNESCO together with the United Nations Development  Programme (UNDP). The event was also attended by representatives of the United Nations Conference on Trade and  Development (UNCTAD) and the World Intellectual Property Organization (WIPO). The report, co-published with UNDP,  focuses on the creative economy in developing countries and clearly demonstrates its potential for job creation, income  generation, and the increase of export earnings.
2.5 In its first debate, the Commission considered item 4.2 on the Draft Programme and Budget (2014 – 2017) and  item 5.5 on the conclusions of the Youth Forum. The two youth delegates presented the Forum’s conclusions related to  culture, notably to protect world heritage, safeguard the living heritage of communities, prevent trafficking of cultural  property, foster intercultural dialogue so as to combat discrimination and celebrate creativity. The Member States fully  endorsed its conclusions.
2.6 Item 4.2 on the Draft Programme and Budget for 2014-2017 for Major Programme IV was introduced by the  representatives of the Director-General, Mr Hans d’Orville, Assistant Director-General for Strategic Planning, and  Mr Francesco Bandarin, Assistant Director-General for Culture.
2.7 Mr d’Orville first introduced the general framework of document 37 C/4 which includes two strategic objectives  for culture, namely strategic objective 7 and strategic objective 8, as well as two global priorities, namely Africa and  gender equality. As regards document 37 C/5, Mr d’Orville informed the Culture Commission of the global budgetary  features for 2014-2017 and the methodology for establishing the expenditure plan. Among others, Mr d’Orville recalled  that the Memory of the World Programme had been transferred to the Communication and Information Sector and that  $2 million would be transferred from the Education Sector to the Culture Sector.
2.8 Further, Mr Bandarin presented the Draft Programme and Budget for Major Programme IV with seven expected  results organized around the main lines of action, one on heritage and the other on creativity. It was made clear that the  expenditure plan translated into a budget of some $40.9 million for the Culture Sector. Mr Bandarin also explained that  the budget for Major Programme IV included high fixed costs related to statutory activities.
2.9 During the debate, a total of 62 Member States, one observer and three non-governmental organizations took  the floor. Member States emphasized the importance they attached to the implementation of all six UNESCO  conventions making up the Organization’s standard-setting framework in the field of culture for both heritage and  creativity. They emphasized the relevance of the conventions as a unique vector of social and economic development  and a platform for international cooperation. A number of Member States appreciated the evaluation of the standard- setting work of UNESCO’s Culture Sector, undertaken by the Internal Oversight Service of UNESCO this year.
2.10 As regards the 1972 World Heritage Convention, numerous Member States recognized its continuing  importance as a flagship of UNESCO and referred also to its 40th anniversary in 2012 and the “Kyoto Vision” which  summarized the achievements and the challenges of the Convention.
2.11 Regarding the 2003 Convention for the Safeguarding of the Intangible Cultural Heritage, which is celebrating its
10th anniversary this year, a number of delegations highlighted the good results of the global capacity-building strategy.
2.12 Many delegates emphasized the importance of the 1970 Convention on the Means of Prohibiting and Preventing  the Illicit Import, Export and Transfer of Ownership of Cultural Property. The statutory mechanism established in 2012  was considered crucial for enhancing its visibility and for promoting international cooperation.
2.13 There was also an overwhelming appreciation for the implementation of the 2005 Convention on the Protection  and Promotion of the Diversity of Cultural Expressions. Many delegations underlined the key role it played in fostering  creative industries as drivers of social cohesion and sustainable local development.
2.14 Many speakers recalled the pivotal role of the development of arts education and the effectiveness of the  Creative Cities Network programme, while emphasizing the role that they could play in promoting creativity and  sustainable local development.
2.15 Several Member States voiced their support for the global priorities of UNESCO. In this regard the relevance of  the 20th anniversary of the Slave Route project and the International Decade for People of African Descent (2013-2022)  were mentioned. Concerning the Global Priority Gender Equality, emphasis was placed on the importance of women’s  empowerment and their increased access to cultural life.
2.16 Building on the debate of the Leaders’ Forum, the Culture Commission had fruitful discussions on the post-2015  development agenda. This is particularly relevant as culture was absent from the Millennium Development Goals (MDG)  agenda. Building on projects funded by the MDG Achievement Fund on culture and development, in the two resolutions  on culture and development adopted by the United Nations General Assembly in 2010 and 2011, and relevant events on  culture and development such as the Hangzhou International Congress (May 2013), the United Nations General  Assembly thematic debate (June 2013) and the Economic and Social Council (ECOSOC) Annual Ministerial Review  (July 2013), UNESCO has taken the lead in the advocacy of the mobilization of culture as an essential asset for any  sound development policy at the global level.
2.17 Members of the Commission said that culture provided peoples and communities with a strong sense of identity  and social cohesion, that it allowed development policies to be effective and sustainable, and that only policies  responsive to cultural contexts could yield sustainable, inclusive and equitable development outcomes. Culture is an  important resource for creating jobs and addressing both the economic and social dimensions of poverty through cultural  heritage and cultural and creative industries, while providing innovative and effective solutions to cross-cutting issues,  such as education, health, gender equality and the environment. In that sense, the members of the Commission  concurred that culture had an economic impact. Culture also had a social impact and could contribute a positive  response to environmental challenges. Culture could thus bring solutions to the three main pillars of development.
2.18 In connection with that subject, the delegation of Italy informed the Commission that the third edition of the  UNESCO World Forum on Culture and Cultural Industries, also known as FOCUS, would be held in Florence in 2014 on  the theme of culture and sustainable development.
2.19 Overall, representatives of Member States largely reiterated the need to ensure that the post-2015 agenda  explicitly recognized the role of culture as an enabler and a driver of sustainable development.
2.20 The Assistant Director-General for Culture conveyed his appreciation for the overwhelming support expressed  by the Member States for UNESCO’s efforts at both the global and country levels in the advocacy on the role of culture  for sustainable development. While stating that the six conventions in the field of culture formed a system that allowed  the international community to deal with heritage and creativity in all its forms, he expressed his hope that the 1954  Convention for the Protection of Cultural Property in the Event of Armed Conflict, the 1970 Convention on the Means of  Prohibiting and Preventing the Illicit Import, Export and Transfer of Ownership of Cultural Property and the 2001  Convention on the Protection of the Underwater Cultural Heritage would welcome new States Parties in the near future.  While expressing his thanks for the broad support for arts education and the Creative Cities Network, the Assistant  Director-General clarified that the programmes operated entirely on extrabudgetary resources and that they would  require continued support from Member States; the same went for its actions in post-conflict or in-conflict situations,  museums and the Slave Route programme.
2.21 Following this exchange of views, the Commission recommended to the General Conference that it adopt the  resolution proposed in Volume 1 of document 37 C/5 for Major Programme IV (paragraph 04000).
2.22 The Culture Commission then recommended that the General Conference adopt paragraphs 41 to 56 contained  in document 37 C/6, and Part V paragraphs 1 to 3 of document 37 C/6 Add. and Corr., which concern Major  Programme IV, of the Draft Programme and Budget for 2014-2017.
2.23 The Commission then considered the five draft resolutions which had been submitted by the Member States  under item 4.2 deemed admissible following the criteria established by the Executive Board. Following the comments of  the Director-General contained in document 37 C/8 CLT, the Commission decided not to retain draft resolutions
37 C/DR.2, 37 C/DR.17, 37 C/DR.18 and 37 C/DR.22.
2.24 After in-depth and constructive debates the Commission has recommended that the General Conference adopt  draft resolution 37 C/DR.20, which was submitted by Brazil. Building on the related decisions of the Executive Board, this  draft resolution acknowledges that advocacy should be pursued on the role of culture as an enabler and driver of  sustainable development. Since the post-2015 agenda will be the roadmap for the United Nations system action at the  country level, the visibility and full implementation of UNESCO’s normative tools also need to be pursued. Concerning  this draft resolution, the delegation of the United Kingdom asked me to convey its concern that the Culture Commission  should not anticipate the discussion on the post-2015 development agenda as regards the way culture would be  reflected in the post-2015 agenda. The position of the delegation of the United Kingdom was supported by the
392  delegations of Denmark, Norway and Sweden.
2.25 The Commission concluded its first debate by recommending that the General Conference approve document
37 C/5 Corr.8 (paragraph 04000), in light of the decision taken by the General Conference on the budget ceiling. The  Commission also recommended that it endorse the implementation plan related to Major Programme IV, as indicated in  document 37 C/5 Add.2 Rev. The Commission thus endorsed 37 C/5 Volume I as amended by the Executive Board and  took note of Addenda 3 and 4 of 37 C/5 on Priority Africa and Gender Equality, as well as 37 C/19 on the Youth Forum.
2.26 Dear colleagues, I will now move to the second debate on our agenda. Under item 5.4, “Establishment of  category 2 institutes and centres under the auspices of UNESCO”, the Commission considered proposals for the  establishment of two category 2 centres: a regional centre in Algiers, Algeria, for safeguarding intangible cultural heritage  in Africa, and a centre in Dehradun, India, for world natural and heritage management and training for the Asia and  Pacific region. The Commission, without debate decided to recommend to the General Conference the adoption of the  draft resolutions contained in documents 37 C/18 Parts XV and XIV.
2.27 The Commission then considered item 5.16, “Proposal for the establishment, in the premises of Villa Ocampo,  Buenos Aires, Argentina, of a regional centre for arts and culture, as a category 2 centre under the auspices of  UNESCO”. The Assistant Director-General for Culture said that a feasibility study would be submitted at the 194th  session of the Executive Board, should the General Conference decide to delegate to it the examination of the finalized  draft agreement and if deemed appropriate to grant category 2 status to the centre.
2.28 Under the second debate, the Culture Commission also discussed item 8.1 “Preliminary study on the technical,  legal and museological aspects relating to the desirability of a standard-setting instrument on the protection and  promotion of museums and collections”. The Assistant Director-General for Culture explained that the initiative aimed to  prepare a new recommendation on the protection and promotion of museums and collections, based on a preliminary  study. The existing instruments dealing with museums, dating back to the 1960s and 1970s, mainly addressed issues  related to access to museums and conservation. Many speakers recognized the changing role of museums, especially in  the social, economic and educational spheres and they were in favour of the elaboration of a new normative instrument.  Several Member States, on the other hand, expressed doubts as to the need to develop a new legal instrument, given  UNESCO’s current difficult financial situation, as it might create duplication, and therefore suggested that it might be  better to develop existing legal instruments and to support the work of the International Council of Museums.
2.29 After a lengthy discussion, the Culture Commission recommended the adoption of the proposed resolution with  some amendments as reflected in paragraph 10 of document 37 C/47. The amendments emphasize that this standard- setting instrument would be non-binding, that it would complement existing standard-setting instruments and that it would  concern various aspects of the roles of museums, including research-related activities.
2.30 The delegation of Egypt asked me to mention its gratitude to UNESCO for assisting the country after the looting  of precious collections, following recent political unrest in the country. The delegation also informed the Commission of  Egypt’s plan to create a regional category 2 centre to promote capacity building for museum professionals in the Middle  East and Africa.
2.31 During the same debate, following the introduction by the representative of the Director-General, the  Commission adopted, by consensus and without debate, the two draft resolutions submitted by Palestine and the United  Arab Emirates on item 5.2 “Jerusalem and the implementation of 36 C/Resolution 43”, and item 5.3 “Implementation of
36 C/Resolution 81 concerning educational and cultural institutions in the occupied Arab territories”.
2.32  At the fourth debate, the Commission took note without discussion of the reports concerning the main activities  and decisions taken in 2012 and 2013 by the intergovernmental committees of the following three conventions: the 1972  Convention for the Protection of the World Cultural and Natural Heritage, the 1970 Convention on the Means of  Prohibiting and Preventing the Illicit Import, Export and Transfer of Ownership of Cultural Property, and the 2003  Convention for the Safeguarding of the Intangible Cultural Heritage.
2.33 Following the presentation by the Chairperson of the Administrative Council of the International Fund for the  Promotion of Culture (IFPC), the Commission also took note without debate of the report on the activities of the Fund
(2012-2013) (37 C/REP/24).
2.34 During the fifth debate the Commission considered UNESCO’s association with the World Performing Arts  Capital, initiated by the International Theatre Institute which aims to promote performing arts. The Culture Commission  recommends that the General Conference adopt at its plenary session draft resolution 37 C/COM.CLT/DR.1, submitted  by the United Arab Emirates and co-sponsored by the Philippines. Egypt, the Russian Federation and Sudan expressed  their wish to also become co-sponsors of this draft resolution.
2.35 Ladies and gentlemen, I cannot help realizing once again how the unique mandate of UNESCO in the field of  culture contributes to shaping the better world that we strive for. One delegate mentioned that “development starts with  culture and comes back to culture” and I think that this sums up the necessity of UNESCO’s action in the interrelated  fields of culture and heritage. Unfortunately, the debate of the Commission was coloured by the current context of  particularly difficult financial constraints. However, our meeting did not depart from our main objectives and aspirations;  and I am grateful to all the delegations who participated to have contributed so constructively. My gratitude also goes to  my colleagues in the Bureau of this Commission and in particular to the Secretary of the Commission, Ms Denise Bax  who provided continuous support to me.
2.36 Distinguished delegates, ladies and gentlemen, culture is a power of humanity and the backbone of the new  humanism so convincingly and passionately presented by the Director-General of UNESCO Irina Bokova as a new vision
393  of UNESCO. Latvia, the country I come from, at the end of the twentieth century regained its independence without  resorting to violence, using the power of culture. This was emphasized by Secretary-General of the United Nations Ban  Ki-moon during his recent visit to Latvia. On 15 November, just a few days ago, he opened the conference “Historical  perspectives on the establishment and restitution of the Latvian State” praising the success of the singing revolution  through traditional culture and the Latvian folk songs in particular. He called the songs “a bridge to the future” and  stressed the path of culture and non-violence as being in line with the values of the United Nations system.
2.49 Being myself certain and proud of the power the Latvian folk songs embody, let me conclude my presentation by  building a bridge from my heart to yours, presenting to you a Latvian folk song. This folk song invites you to enjoy your  life, to put all your worries and sorrows under a stone and to jump over it by singing:  “Bedu manu lielu bedu,  Es par bedu nebedaj’.   Liku bedu zem akmena,  Pari gaju dziedadam”   Thank you.
3.1 The President:   Thank you very much for a clear presentation and an enjoyable one, too. Are there any comments or  suggestions on document 37 C/74? I see none. May I then assume that the General Conference takes note of the report  of the Culture Commission and adopts the draft resolutions contained therein, subject, of course, to the decisions that the  Conference may take on the budgetary issues when adopting the Appropriation Resolution this afternoon? I see no  objections. It is so decided.  (Applause)
3.2 I see that the United Kingdom has a comment to make. You have the floor.
4.1 United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland:   Thank you very much, Mr President. I am very grateful to the Chair of the Culture Commission for her report and  for her excellent chairing of some very interesting and complex issues and also for her singing.
4.2 Mr President, UNESCO’s General Conference is the supreme governing body of the Organization. Its  functioning and effectiveness depends on Member States and the Secretariat working together effectively and everyone  knowing their role and the boundaries upon it. We take decisions which are supposed to be first and foremost the wishes  of the Member States rather than the UNESCO staff preferences. With so many people coming from capital, people not  always steeped in our sometimes arcane rules and procedures, the General Conference also relies heavily on trust. I  regret to say that during this conference, the behaviour of some members of the Secretariat has led me to question  whether that trust can remain.
4.3 On the night of Thursday last week, my delegation received a phone call from the Culture Sector asking for an  explanation of some wording of a proposed resolution which had been approved in the Culture Commission. I explained  and as the draft resolution had been approved, I thought nothing more of it.
4.4 The following morning, the Commission started around 35 minutes late and it soon became clear that this was  because the Secretariat were guiding the Chair to illegally, without the two-thirds majority necessary, reopen the draft  resolution in order to return to their preferred wording.
4.5 That the Secretariat would do this and guide the Chair so incorrectly is reprehensible and that no one had the  courtesy to mention it to the sponsoring delegation before they took the action is discourteous to the point of being  contemptuous. The only reason we are not seeking to prevent the adoption of the draft resolution here is because the  principal discussion will in any case be in New York, rather than at UNESCO.
4.6 This was unfortunately not the only problem. In more than one Commission, the delegates were told that they  were forbidden from amending draft resolutions. This is incorrect. In several Commissions, delegates were prevented  from seeing amendments on the screen unless they made great protest. This was despite the fact that the screen writers  were paid and present in every room. The Director-General rightly emphasized that there is a need to build trust between  Member States and the Secretariat as this is essential for our good functioning. When the Secretariat seeks to overturn  decisions they do not like, when the Secretariat seeks to prevent legitimate discussions and amendments, and when the  Secretariat makes it difficult or impossible for Member States to follow the decisions they are taking, those actions  seriously undermine that trust. I very much regret that it has reached a point where I felt the need to make such a  statement.
5.1 The President:   Thank you very much. It is duly noted. Saint Lucia has the floor.
6. Saint Lucia:   Thank you, Mr President. I would like to fully associate myself with the statement made by the United Kingdom.  Thank you.
7. The President:   Ms Melbarde, I wish to thank you and all the members of the Culture Commission for your commitment. The  Bolivarian Republic of Venezuela has the floor.
(8) République bolivarienne du Venezuela (traduit de l’espagnol) :   Merci, Monsieur le Président. Ma délégation souhaite elle aussi s’associer aux déclarations du Royaume-Uni et de  Saint-Vincent-et-les Grenadines au sujet des « erreurs » qui se glissent souvent dans certains documents présentés par le  Secrétariat. De plus, s’agissant de la projection sur écran, je rappelle qu’au sein de la Commission SHS (Sciences sociales et  humaines), il n’était pas prévu d’avoir recours à des écrans pour l’examen des projets de décision proposés, bien que cela  facilite l’incorporation des amendements présentés par les États membres. À mon sens, il faudrait veiller à ce que ce genre de  fautes ne se reproduisent plus, car elles entament la crédibilité du fonctionnement interne du Secrétariat. Je vous remercie.
9. The President:   Democratic Republic of the Congo has the floor.
10. République démocratique du Congo :   Merci, Madame la Présidente. J’étais également présente dans la salle en ma qualité de déléguée de la  République démocratique du Congo. Je m’associe à la remarque de la délégation du Royaume-Uni : le fait de ne pas  tout afficher sur les écrans est une source de confusion. Nous ne sommes pas sûrs d’avoir tout compris. Merci.
11. The President:   Saint Vincent and Grenadines has the floor.
12. Saint Vincent and the Grenadines:   Thank you, Mr President. I would like to support what has been said by the United Kingdom. Thank you very  much.
13. The President:   Since I believe that the report has been adopted, Ms Melbarde, I wish to thank you and all the members of your  Commission for your commitment and efficiency. Thank you.  Report of the Social and Human Sciences Commission (SHS) (37 C/73)  Rapport de la Commission SHS (Sciences sociales et humaines) (37 C/73)  Informe de la Comisión de Ciencias Sociales y Humanas (SHS) (37 C/73)  Доклад Комиссии по социальным и гуманитарным наукам (SHS) (37 C/73)   )٧٣م/٣٧ج) SHSتقرير لجنة العلوم االجتماعية واإلنسانية ( 社会科学及人文科学委员会（SHS）的报告（37 C/73）
14. The President:   Ladies and gentlemen, we will now examine the report of the Social and Human Sciences (SHS) Commission  contained in document 37 C/73. I am pleased to give the floor to Mr Abad Ortiz who successfully chaired the  Commission. Sir, you have the floor.
15.1 M. Abad (Équateur) (Président de la Commission SHS) :   Merci, Monsieur le Président, Monsieur le Vice-Président de la Conférence générale, Monsieur le Vice-Président  du Conseil exécutif, Madame la Directrice générale. Distingués délégués, Mesdames et Messieurs, chers amis. J’ai le  privilège de partager avec vous les points saillants des débats de la Commission SHS (Sciences sociales et humaines).  Nos travaux ont été organisés en trois séances, dont une prolongée. Au total, 74 représentants d’État membre ont pris la  parole. Vos interventions, comme vous allez le constater, ont été suffisamment riches pour permettre à l’UNESCO  d’élaborer  un programme cohérent et solide pour les années à venir.
15.2 J’ai voulu mettre en exergue quelques considérations qui constituent à mon sens des conditions sine qua non  pour un programme de sciences sociales et humaines dynamique, motivant et crédible. J’ai été heureux de constater  que mes vues coïncidaient avec celles de la grande majorité de ceux qui se sont exprimés lors de nos débats. En  particulier, j’ai insisté sur la nécessité d’un changement institutionnel qui aurait vocation à confirmer la mission  intellectuelle du Secteur des sciences sociales et humaines en tant que catalyseur de transformations au profit de toutes  les populations, et notamment des plus défavorisées.
15.3 L’expérience acquise par l’UNESCO, ainsi que l’action menée par les organismes internationaux et régionaux  dans le domaine des sciences sociales (dont beaucoup doivent leur création à des initiatives et à l’appui de l’UNESCO),  plaident clairement pour l’adoption d’un double objectif par le Secteur des sciences sociales et humaines. Le premier axe  de son travail serait la promotion du développement institutionnel des sciences sociales, point d’appui pour l’émergence  d’une pensée originale et autonome. En s’inspirant des travaux de ses partenaires, l’UNESCO devrait pouvoir jouer au  niveau mondial un rôle unique dans la production de connaissances qui permettent de trouver des réponses adéquates  aux défis majeurs d’aujourd’hui, tels que la pauvreté et l’exclusion. Ces réponses refléteraient toute la complexité des  problèmes actuels et prendraient en considération leur enracinement dans la nature des systèmes socioéconomiques,  leurs modèles de production et de consommation ainsi que la distribution des richesses. Le deuxième axe serait dédié à
395  la construction de ponts entre, d’une part, la recherche et le savoir, et, d’autre part, la recherche et la formulation de  politiques publiques sur des thèmes comme la lutte contre la pauvreté, le respect et la promotion des droits humains et  du dialogue interculturel, la bioéthique, la jeunesse, l’éthique de l’environnement, l’éducation physique et le sport ou la  lutte contre le dopage. L’UNESCO demeure le seul organisme des Nations Unies qui puisse fédérer les efforts en faveur  d’un dialogue aussi fructueux.
15.4 Avant de passer à l’examen du Projet de programme et de budget pour 2014-2017, la Commission des sciences  sociales a écouté deux interventions qui ont éclairci les débats. En premier lieu, le Rapporteur du CIG-MOST a lu la  déclaration conjointe des présidents des cinq programmes scientifiques intergouvernementaux et internationaux de  l’UNESCO et de la Commission océanographique intergouvernementale. La priorité accordée, dans la Stratégie à  moyen terme de l’UNESCO, à la mobilisation des sciences pour le développement durable et le renforcement de  l’interface sciences-politique-société dans le contexte du programme de développement pour l’après-2015 a reçu un  soutien unanime. En second lieu, trois jeunes délégués ont présenté devant la Commission les recommandations du
8e Forum des jeunes de l’UNESCO, axé sur les trois volets de la Stratégie opérationnelle pour la jeunesse pour 2014-
2021, ainsi que les 15 projets ayant reçu le label du 8e Forum.
15.5 Distingués délégués, Mesdames et Messieurs, je passe maintenant au résumé de nos débats sur le point de  l’ordre du jour relatif à l’examen et à l’adoption du Projet de programme et de budget pour 2014-2017. Le Sous-Directeur  général pour la planification stratégique a rappelé les principales caractéristiques programmatiques et budgétaires du
37 C/5 ainsi que le plan révisé d’exécution sur la base de la situation de trésorerie attendue pour 2014-2015. Concernant  les ajustements de structure, il a notamment rappelé que le Conseil exécutif avait décidé, à sa 192e session, de reporter  la décision concernant la création d’un centre pour les transformations sociales et le dialogue interculturel à la
38e session de la Conférence générale. Cependant, cette décision n’affectera pas le transfert prévu de ressources  relatives à la culture de la paix, au dialogue interculturel et à la prospective du Bureau de la planification stratégique au  Secteur des sciences sociales et humaines, aux fins de la mise en œuvre des activités proposées pour le centre et  recommandées par le Conseil exécutif. Le Sous-Directeur général a ensuite invité la Commission à prendre pour base  de ses délibérations le titre révisé de l’objectif stratégique 6 du Projet de stratégie à moyen terme tel qu’approuvé par le  Conseil exécutif : « Soutenir le développement social inclusif, favoriser le dialogue interculturel pour le rapprochement  des cultures et promouvoir les principes éthiques ».  (L’orateur poursuit en anglais)
15.6 Distinguished delegates, ladies and gentlemen, the Assistant Director-General for Social and Human Sciences  noted that Major Programme III addresses a complex set of problems all linked to a systematic way ranging from  transformations affecting whole societies to the impact of the anthropocene on humankind and to the concept of  converging techno-sciences on human civilization.
15.7 It would support inclusive social development, intercultural dialogue and the rapprochement of cultures with a  foresight approach which constituted strategic objective 6 of the Draft Medium-Term Strategy for 2014-2021 in document
15.8 On main line of action 1, she stressed that social inclusion and intercultural dialogue were key challenges of our  time and that there was consensus on the importance on strengthening UNESCO’s support to Member States in  managing social transformation, in making social inclusion possible in situations of rising diversity, in anticipating the  need for better public policy, and in that respect, she reaffirmed the importance of the Management of Social  Transformations (MOST) Programme.
15.9 In line with the ethical mandate of the Organization, main line of action 2 will address the ethical, legal and  societal implications of scientific and technological challenges towards inclusive social development. Main line of action 3  will be devoted to building policies through a participatory process with stakeholders in both the fields of youth and sport;  supporting youth, development and civic engagement and promoting a human rights-based approach in UNESCO’s  programme.
15.10 Sixty-four Member States and three observers took the floor on this debate. The debate revealed a consensus  concerning the high relevance of social sciences for addressing a global context of profound societal changes, of  persisting poverty, continued discrimination and increasing inequalities. Therefore social science should be at the core of  the Sector’s approach when implementing the three main lines of action. With this in mind, the Bolivarian Republic of  Venezuela, supported by a significant number of delegates, expressed the wish to see these issues debated in the  forthcoming sessions of the Executive Board.
15.11 The outcome of such interactions could shape UNESCO’s contribution to inter-agency processes such as the  post-2015 development agenda. Some delegates called for the further strengthening of the programme, expressing their  concern for the ever declining resources within the regular programme and the growing dependence upon  extrabudgetary funds.
15.12 The Commission regarded Major Programme III as a strategic pillar that could nurture the intellectual reflection  of all programmes of UNESCO, by promoting, inter alia, the effective linkages between research, policymaking and  society which are at the heart of MOST.
15.13 To foster the transversal role of Major Programme III, many delegates called for strengthened synergies and  cross-sectoral cooperation. Many noted in particular the need to further reinforce the interface between the natural and  the social and human sciences under the umbrella of such emerging concepts as sustainability science. Many  delegations appreciated the attention paid to Priority Africa and gender mainstreaming in the programmes of the Sector.
15.14 Turning to comments on specific programme areas, MOST received an overwhelming support as a unique and  inclusive platform for promoting reflection on pressing societal challenges and new paradigms to effectively respond  thereto.
15.15  Numerous speakers stressed that social inclusion was among the most important challenges facing societies  today, with the acceleration of social transformation, the increasing inequalities and the diversity of societies, putting  models of cohesion and integration to the test. Several speakers appealed to UNESCO for technical assistance in  establishing and maintaining MOST national liaison committees and for a stronger South-South, North-South cooperation  within the framework of MOST.
15.16 Some delegates noted with appreciation the introduction of a foresight approach. The partnership with renowned  international social science institutions such as the Latin American Faculty of Social Sciences (FLACSO), the Latin  American Social Sciences Council (CLACSO) and the Council for the Development of Social Science Research in Africa  (CODESRIA) was very much welcomed. In this connection, speakers commended UNESCO’s involvement in the 2013  World Social Science Report on changing global environments jointly produced with the International Social Science  Council (ISSC) and the Organisation for Economic Co-Operation and Development (OECD), presented at a side-event  during the session of the Commission.
15.17 One delegate requested the replacement of the term “indigène” in the French text of the report, as it was  associated with colonialism. In Latin America, the term we use is “pueblos originarios” to refer to the population living in  the continent before the European conquest.
15.18 Several speakers called for greater support for the José Martí Project for International Solidarity. Certain  speakers encouraged the greater youth involvement and focus within the MOST programme mechanisms. One speaker  commended the work of the Social and Human Sciences Sector (SHS) on internal migration in India while reference was  made to the work of the Centurion University in the same country.
15.19 Another delegate proposed the holding of an international conference to consider the issue of social policies in  post-conflict and post-disaster settings. Many delegates highlighted the need to give youth a prominent place across all  programmes and decision-making structures across UNESCO. Delegates endorsed the upgraded place of the youth  programme which aimed to harness young people’s unique potential to act as agents of positive change.
15.20  The eighth UNESCO Youth Forum was unanimously supported, with the Member States welcoming its  recommendations and praising the forum’s innovative and youth-driven character and format. Speakers urged UNESCO  to ensure the follow-up of all recommendations and of the 15 action projects that received the Forum’s label.
15.21 They also welcomed the place accorded to the UNESCO operational strategy on youth and called for a direct  engagement of youth in all its implementation phases, underscoring the importance of mobilizing appropriate resources.  Much emphasis was placed on youth participation in decision-making processes, including within the General  Conference debates and sessions.
15.22 The commitment of Member States to youth issues was also demonstrated by the numerous examples of  national and local initiatives, ranging from the establishment of youth policies, ministries and youth councils to  operational activities engaging, particularly, youth-led and civil society organizations.
15.23 There was important support to work for a culture of peace and human rights. Several delegates voiced support  for the coalitions of cities against racism and discrimination as a platform with a great potential to promote social  inclusion policies and exchange of good practices at local level. Some speakers called for further work on the rights  within UNESCO’s competence, cultural rights in particular. The delegations requested that an evaluation be conducted  on achievements in the implementation of the 2003 human rights strategy particularly in relation to the integration of a  human rights-based approach.
15.24 Several speakers welcomed the connection between social transformation, intercultural dialogue and a culture  of peace, and invited UNESCO to build upon previous initiatives at global and regional levels. For some the proposed  framework of performance indicators for the programme did not adequately take up the aspects related to a culture of  peace and intercultural dialogue.
15.25 There was a unanimous recognition of the success of the bioethics programme. It was praised for its clear  objectives, good reputation and tangible input to Member States. The development of curricula on ethics teaching and  capacity building in support of national bioethics committees, especially in Africa, were particularly appreciated as was  the work of the Intergovernmental Bioethics Committee (IGBC), the International Bioethics Committee (IBC) and the  World Commission on the Ethics of Scientific Knowledge and Technology (COMEST).
15.26 Creating stronger synergies among these three bodies was seen as highly desirable for promoting coherence  and efficiency. UNESCO was called upon to play a leading role in driving an international agenda on bioethics and ethics  of science particularly in relation to global environmental change. Several delegates noted UNESCO’s unique mandate  within the United Nations system in the field of bioethics.
15.27 In the area of physical education and sport, many speakers commended the International Conference of  Ministers and Senior Officials Responsible for Physical Education and Sport (MINEPS) and urged UNESCO to invest in  its follow-up. They regarded its declaration as a comprehensive roadmap for the Organization. Delegates commended  the work on anti-doping and the implementation of the relevant convention.
15.28 Some delegates were concerned by the receding place of philosophy in the programme of the Sector. In their
397  opinion, philosophy was not only an indispensable discipline to stimulate reflection in these times of crisis and  effervescence, but also the theoretical reference of all social sciences.  (The speaker continues in French)
15.29 Mesdames et Messieurs, en réponse aux nombreuses interventions, les délégués du Forum des jeunes ont  exprimé leur appréciation pour l’appui apporté à leurs recommandations. Ils ont également lancé un appel aux États  membres pour que des jeunes soient impliqués à toutes les étapes de la mise en œuvre de ces recommandations, et  pour que leur participation aux processus de la Conférence générale devienne systématique. La Sous-Directrice  générale pour les sciences sociales et humaines a pour sa part remercié les États membres du soutien qu’ils avaient  manifesté au programme du secteur, et notamment ceux qui sont le plus étroitement associés à la réalisation de  programmes spécifiques, comme le Viet Nam, qui accueillera un forum des ministres du développement social de l’Asie  de Sud-Est, et la Colombie, qui a accueilli la première réunion de suivi de la cinquième Conférence internationale des  ministres et hauts fonctionnaires responsables de l'éducation physique et du sport. Ensuite, elle a réaffirmé la  détermination du secteur à renforcer l’intersectorialité, en citant l’exemple du Forum des jeunes, et à promouvoir l’égalité  des genres, comme en témoigne l’allocation de 40 % du budget à cette priorité globale. À la fin du débat, la Commission  SHS a adopté le projet de résolution concernant le grand programme III (Sciences sociales et humaines) – tel  qu’amendé par le Conseil exécutif à sa 192e session et à la lumière du projet de résolution présenté par la République  islamique d’Iran (DR.6), compte tenu des observations de la Directrice générale (37 C/8 SHS) – ainsi que l’ouverture des  crédits demandés. Enfin, la Commission a adopté le plan révisé d’exécution sur la base de la situation de trésorerie  attendue pour 2014-2015 (document 37 C/5 Add.2 Rev.), en apportant une correction à la présentation condensée des  résultats du grand programme III.
15.30 Distingués délégués, la Commission SHS a également examiné quatre points spécifiques. Permettez-moi de  commencer par le point 5.4 relatif à la création à Chungju (République de Corée) d’un centre international des arts  martiaux pour le développement et la participation de la jeunesse, en tant que centre de catégorie 2 placé sous l'égide  de l'UNESCO. La Sous-Directrice générale a rappelé que le Conseil exécutif avait examiné l’étude de faisabilité à sa
192e session et recommandé à la Conférence générale d’approuver la création du centre. Ensuite, le représentant de la  République de Corée (Monsieur le Maire de Chungju) a souligné dans son intervention le rôle particulier que jouent les  arts martiaux en faveur de l’engagement social et du renforcement de l’estime de soi parmi les jeunes. Le représentant  du Japon a tenu à féliciter la République de Corée et a confirmé la coopération de son gouvernement avec le centre. La  Commission a adopté le projet de résolution correspondant au point 5.4. Ensuite, la Commission a examiné le point 5.13  relatif à la cinquième Conférence internationale des ministres et hauts fonctionnaires responsables de l’éducation  physique et du sport (MINEPS V). Cette Conférence a adopté à l’unanimité la « Déclaration de Berlin » et a invité la  Directrice générale à présenter ses propositions de suivi de MINEPS V à la 37e session de la Conférence générale.  Notre Commission a examiné un projet de résolution présenté par l’Allemagne et un amendement présenté par le Brésil  sur ce point. Le délégué de l’Allemagne, dans son intervention relative au projet de résolution, a souligné que la  Déclaration de Berlin constituait une extraordinaire feuille de route pour le programme de l’UNESCO dans le domaine de  l’éducation physique et du sport. Celle-ci pourrait permettre à l’Organisation de jouer un rôle de chef de file dans ce  domaine grâce notamment à une coopération étroite avec le Comité intergouvernemental pour l’éducation physique et le  sport (CIGEPS). Ce délégué a également informé la Commission de l’appui apporté au suivi lors la première réunion de  suivi de MINEPS V pour l’Amérique latine et les Caraïbes, qui s’est tenue en Colombie en octobre 2013.
15.31 Trente-huit délégués ont pris la parole lors de l’examen du projet de résolution et de l’amendement en question.  Nombre d’entre eux ont remercié l’Allemagne pour l’excellente qualité de MINEPS V et certains ont exprimé leur  appréciation à la Colombie pour la réunion de suivi qu’elle avait organisée. Mais plusieurs délégués ont dit craindre  qu’un projet de résolution portant sur tous les sujets énoncés dans la Déclaration de MINEPS V n’amène l’UNESCO à  outrepasser son mandat. Des réserves ont été exprimées notamment en ce qui concerne un engagement potentiel de  l’UNESCO dans la lutte contre la corruption et la criminalité organisée pour prévenir la manipulation de compétitions  sportives, ou dans le contexte de la révision des modalités régissant des événements sportifs majeurs. À cet égard, il a  toutefois été mentionné que l’appel à la mise en œuvre de l’ensemble des recommandations de MINEPS V figurant dans  le projet de résolution était adressé aux États membres et qu’il n’engageait pas le Secrétariat. Par ailleurs, il a été  souligné que le projet de résolution ne prenait pas suffisamment en compte le rôle du sport dans la promotion d’une  culture de la paix, ainsi que dans la lutte contre toutes les formes de discrimination. Il a aussi été suggéré d’y faire  référence aux jeux et sports traditionnels. Le Brésil, soutenu par plusieurs intervenants, a affirmé qu’il serait approprié  d’entretenir la dynamique de MINEPS V et de réviser la Charte à plus brève échéance que celle proposée par la  Directrice générale. Certains délégués ont alors fait observer que MINEPS V n’était pas contraignante pour la  Conférence générale et qu’il convenait de respecter strictement les procédures en vigueur à l’UNESCO lorsqu’il serait  procédé à ladite révision. La Commission a décidé de déléguer au Conseil exécutif, à sa 194e session, le pouvoir de se  prononcer sur l’opportunité d’une révision de la Charte, sur la base d’un rapport qui lui serait soumis par la Directrice  générale. Le projet de résolution a été adopté tel qu’amendé par la Commission.
15.32 Le point 5.21 de l’ordre du jour portait sur la proclamation par les Nations Unies d’une journée internationale du  sport et de l’activité physique, le 6 avril. La Sous-Directrice générale a fait savoir que l’UNESCO s’associerait à la  célébration de la Journée internationale du sport au service du développement et de la paix, déjà proclamée par  l’Assemblée générale des Nations Unies en août dernier, et inscrirait ses propres initiatives dans le cadre du suivi de  MINEPS V, du travail du CIGEPS et du Programme anti-dopage et sport. La mise en œuvre de cet engagement serait  fonction de la disponibilité des ressources extrabudgétaires voulues. Une délégation a insisté pour que la question de  l’égalité des sexes soit prise en compte et a exprimé sa préoccupation quant à l’insuffisance des ressources disponibles  à l’UNESCO pour répondre aux attentes des États membres et d’autres parties prenantes à ce sujet. Le projet de  résolution correspondant au point 5.21 a été adopté sans amendements. Le dernier point 9.4 examiné par la
398  Commission SHS portait sur la révision de la Recommandation concernant la condition des chercheurs scientifiques,  adoptée par la Conférence générale en 1974. Présentant ce point de l’ordre du jour, la Sous-Directrice générale a  rappelé le processus participatif qui avait présidé à l'étude préliminaire menée pour déterminer s’il était opportun de  réviser cette Recommandation et a souligné la valeur de cette démarche. Elle a précisé que l’organisation de réunions  en sus de celles qui étaient déjà prévues nécessiterait des fonds extrabudgétaires. Neuf délégués ont exprimé leur  soutien à la révision de la Recommandation ainsi qu’au calendrier et aux modalités proposés. Plusieurs délégués ont  demandé que les savoirs traditionnels, les recherches menées par les peuples autochtones et la dimension  philosophique soient dûment pris en compte dans le processus de révision, ainsi que la situation particulière qui était  celle des femmes, mais aussi des jeunes chercheurs, dans le secteur de la recherche. Le débat a fait ressortir la  nécessité de s’appuyer sur une démarche intersectorielle, en exploitant notamment les études menées dans le domaine  de la bioéthique, les résultats des conférences mondiales sur la science et l’enseignement supérieur, ainsi que les  instruments internationaux de référence, tels que la Déclaration universelle sur la bioéthique et les droits de l’homme.
15.33 Distingués délégués, Mesdames et Messieurs, chers amis, nous vivons un moment critique et déterminant dans  la vie de notre Organisation. En même temps, l’UNESCO continue de présenter des avantages relatifs inestimables par  rapport aux autres membres de la famille des Nations Unies. Vos interventions lors des travaux de notre Commission ont  confirmé avec éloquence la pertinence de la mission qui est celle de l’UNESCO dans le domaine spécifique des  sciences sociales et humaines. C’est à mon avis sur cette base que l’action de l’Organisation devrait être conçue et  consolidée dans les années à venir. Ainsi pourra-t-on redonner toute leur place aux sciences sociales et humaines à  l’UNESCO.  (L’orateur poursuit en espagnol)
(15.34) Distingués délégués, chers collègues, en conclusion du présent rapport oral de la Commission Sciences sociales et  humaines, je voudrais vous remercier de la confiance que vous m’avez témoignée en me nommant Président de cette  instance. Beaucoup d’entre vous connaissent déjà mon attachement profond au Secteur des sciences sociales et humaines  au sein duquel j’ai exercé diverses fonctions. Ce fut donc un immense plaisir pour moi que d’avoir pu apporter mon modeste  grain de sable à cet édifice. J’espère avoir fidèlement reflété vos déclarations et opinions. Je souhaiterais également remercier  tous les États membres qui ont pris la parole lors des travaux de notre Commission.
(15.35) La pertinence et la clarté de vos interventions ont été la source d’inspiration d’un débat extrêmement enrichissant qui  viendra alimenter l’élaboration des plans de travail pour 2014-2017. Il convient de souligner que le respect mutuel qui a régné  pendant nos séances nous a permis de mener efficacement l’examen de tous les points inscrits à l’ordre du jour de la  Commission et d’éviter les complications d’ordre linguistique ou sémantique.
(15.36) Enfin, je voudrais évoquer l’héritage laissé par Stéphane Hessel, illustre militant des droits de l’homme, qui nous  invitait à nous indigner pour la justice et pour la liberté. En ces temps de changements angoissants auxquels nous devons  faire face, au Nord comme au Sud, cette indignation doit nous guider pour oser faire de cette époque un véritable changement  d’ère ouvrant la voie à l’espoir. Je vous remercie.
16. The President:   Thank you, Your Excellency, for a clear report. I also wish to thank all of the members of the SHS Commission  for their work. Dear colleagues, are there any comments on document 37 C/73? I see none. May I then assume that the  General Conference takes note of the report of the SHS Commission contained in document 37 C/73 and adopts the  draft resolutions contained therein, of course subject to the decisions that the Conference may take on budgetary issues  when adopting the Appropriation Resolution for the next biennium? I see no objections. It is so decided.
399  Report of the Nominations Committee (37 C/82)  Rapport du Comité des candidatures (37 C/82)  Informe del Comité de Candidaturas (37 C/82)  Доклад Комитета по кандидатурам (37 С/82)  )٨٢م/٣٧جتقرير لجنة الترشيحات    提名委员会的报告（37 C/82）
17. The President:   We will now examine the report of the Nominations Committee which is contained in document 37 C/82. The  Chairperson of the Committee, Ms Assel Utegenova, will now present this document. Your Excellency, you have the floor.
18.1 Ms Utegenova (Kazakhstan) (Chair of the Nominations Committee):   Thank you very much, Mr President. Distinguished delegates, ladies and gentlemen, the report you have before  you, document 37 C/82, reflects the final proposals of the Nominations Committee concerning the composition of the  Headquarters Committee, Legal Committee and other subsidiary organs of the General Conference following the results  of the elections held on Thursday 14 November 2013 in Room IV.
18.2 Distinguished delegates, ladies and gentlemen, firstly, I should like to thank you all for your intense and  productive cooperation throughout the duration of the General Conference in support of the work of the Nominations  Committee. This has enabled the Committee to carry out its tasks in a collegial and effective manner, namely, to  organize the election of Members of the Executive Board for the period 2013-2017 in accordance with item 15.1 of the  agenda thereon, and subsequently to organize and conduct the elections of the various subsidiary organs of the General  Conference pursuant to items 15.2 to 15.5 of the approved agenda.
18.3 Before moving to the electoral process, I would like to inform you that concerning the grouping of Member States  for the purpose of elections to the Executive Board, what we usually call electoral groups, the Nominations Committee  approved by acclamation the membership of Palestine in Group V(b). The Nominations Committee would therefore like  the plenary of the General Conference to take note of the membership of Palestine in Group V(b) for the purpose of  elections to the Executive Board.
18.4 While it is true that any electoral process is in itself complex because of the framework of rules within which it  takes place, I feel bound to say that the Member States as a whole have displayed great civic concern, reflected in their  wholehearted participation in that process, while respecting the mandate given to the Nominations Committee under  Rule 35 of the Rules of Procedure of the General Conference.
18.5 In this regard, I should like to emphasize both the very high turnout for all the elections as well as the  cooperative spirit among electoral groups in reaching agreement on submissions of the number of candidates equal to  the number of seats to be filled.
18.6 I will start first with a brief report of the work carried out by the Nominations Committee in the course of which  seven meetings were held in a quite condensed manner during the first ten days of the Conference.
18.7 The first task of the Committee, which coincided with the first meeting of the 37th session of the General  Conference, consisted of the submission to the General Conference of the list of nominations for the post of President of  the General Conference, its Vice-Presidents and Chairpersons of the Programme Commissions, APX Commission, and  the Committees including that entrusted to me, in compliance with the recommendations adopted by the Executive Board  in 191 EX/Decision 21 (IV) and 192 EX/Decision 23 (IV).
18.8 The Committee then undertook to complete in the shortest time possible the composition of the Bureaux of the  Programme Commissions, the APX Commission and Nominations Committee. This task proved to be somewhat tedious  and time-consuming as certain electoral groups did not finalize their respective consultations and were not in a position  to propose their respective candidates or agree among themselves for the posts of Vice-Chairpersons and particularly  Rapporteurs. Despite certain delays, I am pleased to inform you that I was able to announce the full composition of each  Bureau at the first meeting of each Commission.
18.9 As all will recall, the Committee organized the elections of Members of the Executive Board, item 15.1. The  Nominations Committee examined lists of candidates for election as Members of the Executive Board during three of its  meetings and benefited from the active and constructive participation of Member States.
18.10 In the context of these discussions, Member States raised the issue of a clear distinction of the division of vacant  seats available for election of Members of the Executive Board within Group V and Group III. Member States requested  that the separation of vacant seats between Group V(a) and Group V(b) be effectively indicated in all relevant General  Conference documents from the onset of publication of lists of candidates. Concerning Group III and the division of seats  between Latin American countries and Caribbean Community countries, Member States required the distinction to be  clearly established in all relevant documents providing lists of candidates for the Executive Board.
18.11 The election of Members of the Executive Board took place on Wednesday 13 November and was carried out  successfully in conformity with the Rules of Procedures of the General Conference governing these elections. I am  pleased to report that we had a very remarkable historic turnout during that election as all 185 Member States entitled to  vote in that election took part in the democratic process.
18.12 These figures are impressive and give legitimacy to our electoral processes and their outcomes. I will now turn
400  to the elections of the Headquarters Committee, the Legal Committee and other subsidiary organs of the General  Conference, items 15.2-15.15, which were held on Thursday 14 November.
18.13 Among the 186 Member States entitled to vote, 169 took part in these elections. Due to fruitful consultations  among the electoral groups and achievement of clean slates in many of them, only 10 secret ballots were held out of a  possible total of 81. The elections were held in a harmonious and collegial manner. The results of these elections were  announced the same day.
18.14 Please recall that following the amendments to the Statutes of the International Bureau of Education (IBE) and  resulting reduction in the number of members of the IBE Council, the Nominations Committee elected six new IBE  Council members, one from each regional group who replaced the 14 outgoing members whose terms of office expired  at the end of this 37th session of the General Conference.
18.15 It is nevertheless regretful that not enough candidatures were received for the Legal Committee, the  Headquarters Committee, the Conciliation and Good Offices Commission Responsible for Seeking the Settlement of any  Disputes that may arise between States Parties to the Convention against Discrimination in Education, and the Executive  Committee of the International Campaign for the Establishment of the Nubia Museum in Aswan and the National  Museum of Egyptian Civilization in Cairo.
18.16 Finally, I would like to bring to your attention observations made in the Nominations Committee during the  examination of lists of candidates for the Executive Board, Headquarters Committee, Legal Committee, and other  subsidiary organs of the General Conference.
18.17 In the context of these discussions, certain Member States raised questions regarding the Rules of Procedure of  the General Conference regarding the eligibility of those Member States which had lost their voting rights due to failure to  submit credentials and/or to make mandatory financial contributions to submit their candidatures for elections to the  Executive Board and subsidiary organs of the General Conference.
18.18 The representative of the Office of International Standards and Legal Affairs explained that no provision in the  Constitution or the Rules of Procedure of the General Conference prevents Member States which had have lost their  voting rights from submitting their candidatures for elections to the Executive Board and subsidiary organs of the General  Conference.
18.19 Certain Member States were of the view that applicable legal texts should be amended so that only Member  States that had not lost their voting rights would be eligible to submit their candidatures for elections to the Executive  Board and subsidiary organs of the General Conference.
18.20 As requested, I present this information in my present oral report to the plenary.
18.21 Mr President, allow me to thank you personally for your interest and continued support in the work of our  Committee, and the electoral process. I would like to thank most sincerely my dear colleague, His Excellency Mr Harald  Stranzl, Vice-President of the General Conference, for his leadership and supervision of the election of Members of the  Executive Board.
18.22 I also take this opportunity to express my gratitude to the tellers for the time and effort they devoted to the  electoral process: Ms Manon Girard (Canada), Ms Bea Pole-Bokor (Hungary), Mr José Federico Samudio Falcón  (Paraguay), Ms Akmaral Oraziman (Kazakhstan), Mr Marthinus Van Schalkwyk (South Africa), Mr Ziad Taan (Lebanon),  Mr Murat Sogangoz (Turkey), Mr Michal Dvorak (Czech Republic), Ms Rosa Esther Moreira de Lemoine (El Salvador),  Ms Petchanok Bouavongs (Thailand), Mr Amidou Doucoure (Mali) and Mr Mounir Anastas (Palestine).
18.23 I wish to extend my thanks also to the Vice-Chairpersons and to the Rapporteur of the Nominations Committee  for their support and wise counsel and in particular, Ms Melek Sina Baydur who chaired the fourth meeting of the  Nominations Committee in my place.
18.24 My thanks also go to the interpreters, technical and support staff of the UNESCO Secretariat and the Secretariat  of the General Conference for their invaluable contribution to the Committee’s work.
18.25 Finally, let me express my appreciation to the Secretariat of the Nominations Committee, to Ms Marimar Marcos,  Ms Patricia Denoyelle, Ms Rosanna Karam, Ms Diane Vicuna, Mr Michee Detinho, and the Secretary of the Committee,  Ms Magda Landry, for their professionalism, devotion and conscientious dedication to their work. Thank you very much.
19. The President:   Thank you very much for your presentation, Excellency. Are there any comments or suggestions on document
(20) Yémen (traduit de l'arabe) :   En cette séance plénière, je souhaiterais vous faire part d'un fait regrettable qui s’est produit hier lors de la session  du Comité du patrimoine mondial et qui, à mon avis, n'est pas de nature à faire avancer ni les efforts de protection du  patrimoine ni les causes des États membres. J’estime que ce comité doit se soumettre aux règles en vigueur à l’UNESCO,  lesquelles s’appliquent à tous les comités tenus de rendre compte de leurs activités à la Conférence générale de  l’Organisation. Il n’y a pas si longtemps, le Groupe II a été exclu du Comité du patrimoine mondial. Cela a également été le  cas, hier, du Groupe Afrique. Pas un seul État africain n’a été élu membre du Comité. Je considère que cette situation est loin  d’être normale et que le Comité doit se soumettre aux règles et réglements de l’UNESCO, et garantir une répartition  géographique équitable à l'instar des autres comités dont les membres viennent de s’exprimer. Je souhaite que ces  remarques soient consignées dans les comptes rendus de la Conférence générale. Je vous remercie.
21. The President:   Thank you. It will be noted. I see no objections. Sudan has the floor.
22. Sudan:   Thank you, Mr President. Sudan seconds what was said by the distinguished delegate of Yemen. We think that  it is completely unacceptable for Africa to be excluded from any commission. We agree that this issue has to be  addressed urgently. Thank you.
23. The President:   Democratic Republic of the Congo has the floor.
24. République démocratique du Congo :   Merci beaucoup, Monsieur le Président. Je viens à mon tour appuyer la déclaration du Yémen, parce qu’il est  inadmissible que tout un continent, toute une région, ne participe pas aux élections au Comité du patrimoine. Merci  beaucoup.
25. The President:   Côte d’Ivoire has the floor.
26. Côte d’Ivoire :   Merci, Monsieur le Président. Je viens à mon tour appuyer la déclaration du Yémen au nom de la Côte d’Ivoire.  Je vous remercie.
27. The President:   Mali has the floor.
28. Mali :   Merci, Monsieur le Président. Monsieur le Président, ma délégation appuie la déclaration du Yémen. La situation  était d’autant plus dramatique hier que trois membres sortants du Comité représentaient des États africains et qu’aucun  représentant de pays d’Afrique n’y a été élu en remplacement. Il faut donc vraiment s’attaquer à cette question et trouver  une solution. Merci, Monsieur le Président.
29. The President:   Thank you. Senegal has the floor.
30. Sénégal :   Je vous remercie, Monsieur le Président. Monsieur le Président, le Sénégal est actuellement le seul pays  africain représenté au Comité du patrimoine, donc nous joignons notre voix à celles des délégations qui nous ont  précédées et souhaitons qu’une attention particulière soit accordée à ce point lors de la réunion qui sera consacrée aux  élections en tout début d’après-midi, afin d’obtenir une répartition plus équitable des sièges. Nous avons reçu des  propositions en ce sens, mais la réflexion devra être poursuivie pour qu’une telle situation ne se reproduise pas. Je vous  remercie.
31. The President:   Thank you. Burkina Faso has the floor.
32. Burkina Faso :   Merci, Monsieur le Président. Notre délégation voudrait également appuyer la proposition du Yémen, comme  tous ceux qui sont intervenus dans ce sens, car la situation actuelle est véritablement inadmissible et il serait souhaitable  d’y remédier. Merci, Monsieur le Président.
33. The President:   Thank you. Ghana has the floor.
34. Ghana:   Thank you, Mr President. Ghana shares the concerns of previous speakers, especially the sentiments  expressed by Yemen. Thank you.
35. The President:   Thank you. Nigeria has the floor.
36. Nigeria:   Thank you, Mr President. Nigeria supports the remarks made by Yemen and agrees completely with the  statements made by subsequent delegations. Thank you.
37. The President:   Thank you. Gambia has the floor.
38. Gambia:   Thank you, Mr President. We support the remarks made by other Member States and add that Africa has a rich  culture and it is therefore very sad that we are not represented. We hope that this will be rectified. Thank you very much.
39. The President:   Thank you. The Bolivarian Republic of Venezuela has the floor.
(40) République bolivarienne du Venezuela (traduit de l’espagnol) :   Merci, Monsieur le Président. Le Venezuela tient lui aussi à s’associer aux interventions des orateurs précédents, en  particulier celle de l’Ambassadeur du Yémen, et à dire que nous devrions commencer à modifier le mode d’élection des  membres du Comité du patrimoine mondial afin d’assurer une véritable représentation géographique, de sorte qu’un continent  qui représente plus de 50 États n’en soit plus exclu. Merci, Monsieur le Président.
41. The President:   Thank you. Peru has the floor.
(42) Pérou (traduit de l’espagnol) :   Merci, Monsieur le Président. La délégation du Pérou joint sa voix à celle du distingué représentant du Yémen.  Indépendamment de ce que prévoient les règles de procédure, il est véritablement injuste que l’Afrique ne soit pas dûment  représentée au sein du Comité du patrimoine mondial. C’est pourquoi le Pérou déplore profondément cette situation et se  déclare disposé à tout mettre en œuvre pour y remédier. Je vous remercie.
43. The President:   Thank you. Madagascar has the floor.
44. Madagascar :   Merci, Monsieur le Président. Madagascar se joint à toutes les délégations qui ont appuyé la proposition du  Yémen. Merci.
45. The President:   Thank you. The United Republic of Tanzania has the floor.
46. United Republic of Tanzania:   Thank you, Mr President. I would like to take this opportunity to join the previous speakers who have expressed  their concern about the non-representation of Africa in the World Heritage Committee. I think that it is important for  UNESCO to uphold the values which are very dear to us, namely values of social justice.
47. The President:   Thank you. Uruguay has the floor.
(48) Uruguay (traduit de l’espagnol) :   Merci, Monsieur le Président. Nous sommes sensibles à la position exprimée par plusieurs représentants, en  particulier du continent africain, et nous la comprenons. Nous pensons qu’il est temps de commencer à agir pour parvenir à  une meilleure répartition géographique au sein du Comité du patrimoine mondial. Je vous remercie.
49. The President:   Thank you. Niger has the floor.
50. Niger :   Merci, Monsieur le Président. Le Niger associe lui aussi sa voix aux autres orateurs, et appuie la déclaration du  Yémen. Merci.
51. The President:   Thank you. Malawi has the floor.
52. Malawi:   Thank you, Mr President. Malawi also supports the position taken by Yemen and all other speakers on the
403  matter. Thank you.
53. The President:   Thank you. Botswana has the floor.
54. Botswana:   Botswana supports the remarks by Yemen and subsequent speakers on the issue under discussion.
55. The President:   Thank you. Mauritania has the floor.
56. Mauritanie :   Merci, Monsieur le Président. La Mauritanie appuie la position des délégations qui ont pris la parole  précédemment à propos des élections au Comité du patrimoine mondial qui se sont déroulées hier. Je vous remercie.
57. The President:   Thank you. South Africa has the floor.
58. South Africa:   Thank you, Mr President. We would like to thank the honourable representative of Yemen for raising this issue  and we note the contradiction that while Africa is one of UNESCO’s priorities, it is not represented on one of its very  important committees. Thank you.
59. The President:   Thank you. Algeria has the floor.
60. Algérie :   Merci, Monsieur le Président. La délégation algérienne s’associe aux déclarations qui viennent d’être faites sur  cette question. Merci beaucoup.
61. The President:   Thank you. Cuba has the floor.
(62) Cuba (traduit de l’espagnol) :   Merci, Monsieur le Président. Je ne sais quel impact peut avoir le débat en cours sur les séances du Comité du  patrimoine mondial qui se tiennent parallèlement en salle XII, mais quoi qu’il en soit, il nous paraît salutaire que cette  conférence élève la voix au sujet d’une situation de toute évidence scandaleuse, où tout un continent, à savoir l’Afrique, se  retrouve exclu du Comité du patrimoine mondial. Ce dernier ressemble de plus en plus à la FIFA, au sein de laquelle un  groupe de 12 clubs des pays riches administrent et gèrent le jeu pour tout le monde. Si le patrimoine est universel, sa gestion  et sa jouissance doivent également l’être. Cuba estime qu’il est indispensable, et urgent, de chercher comment assurer une  répartition géographique équitable au sein de ce comité. Mais il ne sert à rien de nous lamenter si nous n’agissons pas. Une  proposition vient d’être faite, et j’invite tous ceux qui se sont exprimés à se rendre là-bas, une fois cette séance levée, afin  d’appuyer la proposition présentée par le Brésil et la Palestine. Je vous remercie.
63. The President:   Thank you. Ecuador has the floor.
(64) Équateur (traduit de l’espagnol) :   Merci, Monsieur le Président. Monsieur le Président, le représentant de Cuba a dit, en partie, ce que je m’apprêtais à  dire. Effectivement, cet après-midi se tient une séance de l’Assemblée générale des États parties à la Convention du  patrimoine mondial au cours de laquelle sera présenté un projet élaboré par le Brésil et appuyé, entre autres, par mon pays.  Ce sera l’occasion de faire entendre ce que nous avons exprimé ici, et de faire en sorte que l’on ne s’en tienne pas à des  déclarations, Monsieur le Président, et que nous parvenions à un accord aujourd’hui en vue d’une répartition raisonnable des
404  sièges au sein du Comité. Ce qui est arrivé hier à l’Afrique est également arrivé, peut-être dans une moindre mesure, à  l’Amérique latine. Il arrive que nous réussissions à faire élire un ou deux membres au sein de ce comité, mais il nous en coûte  beaucoup. Le processus de négociation des voix pour l’élection au Comité s’est transformé en une espèce de braderie. Aussi  lançons-nous un appel à tous les pays qui sont intervenus et à tous les autres afin que nous puissions parvenir cet après-midi  à un accord en la matière, un accord salutaire pour tous. Merci, Monsieur le Président.
65. The President:   Thank you. Democratic Republic of the Congo has the floor.
66. République démocratique du Congo :   Merci beaucoup, Monsieur le Président. La délégation de Cuba vient d’exprimer en partie ce que je m’apprêtais  à dire. En effet, le patrimoine mondial est géré par une convention, et c’est au niveau de l’assemblée des États parties  que tout problème susceptible de se poser doit être examiné. La Conférence est tenue informée par les rapports que le  Comité du patrimoine mondial lui soumet. Aussi, je partage l’amertume des pays qui ont récemment posé leur  candidature sans succès et je propose que, cet après-midi, nous fassions bloc dans la salle XII pour que le problème qui  nous occupe soit examiné sérieusement. Je vous remercie.
67. The President:   Thank you. Zambia has the floor.
68. Zambia:   Thank you, Mr President. Zambia would like to thank Yemen for raising this contradiction between principle and  action and we look forward to its resolution. Thank you.
69. The President:   Thank you. Somalia has the floor.
70. Somalie :   Merci, Monsieur le Président. Je joins ma voix à celles des délégations qui m’ont précédé et, dans cet esprit je  voudrais appuyer la proposition présentée par le Yémen, que je remercie chaleureusement. Merci beaucoup.
71. The President:   Thank you. We have had many countries on the list and there are nine more. We understand the message and I  hope you will not mind if I close this discussion now. I will give the floor to the nine speakers that are left but thereafter,  the discussion will be closed as the message seems to be the same so far. Kenya has the floor.
72. Kenya:   I thank you, Mr President. Kenya also joins the voices of the previous speakers with regard to the representation  on the World Heritage Committee. Indeed there is a need to ensure equitable representation of all geographical regions  and we hope that this will be rectified in the near future. Thank you.
73. The President:   Thank you. Morocco has the floor.
74. Maroc :   Merci, Monsieur le Président. Le Maroc, en tant que pays africain, appuie les déclarations faites précédemment  et nous réitérons ce que nous avons déjà dit hier après les résultats des élections. Nous exprimons ici notre déception et  notre tristesse quant à l’absence de tout un continent au sein d’un comité aussi important. À cet égard, le Maroc espère  que cet après-midi, l’assemblée des États parties atteindra un consensus concernant les deux projets de résolution  palestinien et brésilien. Je vous remercie.
75. The President:   Thank you. Angola has the floor.
76. Angola :   Merci Monsieur le Président. Beaucoup a déjà été dit et, quoi qu’il en soit, la délégation de l’Angola voulait aussi  s’associer à la déclaration de la délégation du Yémen, ou l’appuyer, et en remercier vivement ses auteurs. Merci.
77. The President:   Thank you. Brazil has the floor.
78. Brazil:   Thank you, Mr President. I would just to associate Brazil with the previous speakers, specifically with Cuba. It  was a sad day for UNESCO, but we hope that a solution can soon be found. [It is very hard to hear what the speaker  says at the end of the sentence]
(80) Royaume d'Arabie saoudite (traduit de l’arabe) :   La délégation du Royaume d'Arabie saoudite remercie le représentant du Yémen pour ses remarques. Elle appuie
405  également les observations formulées par les représentants des autres États membres. Nous tenons à cet égard à réaffirmer  la priorité accordée à l'Afrique. Nous estimons qu'il est fort paradoxal que les États africains soient absents du Comité du  patrimoine mondial et soulignons la nécessité d'assurer une répartition géographique équitable. Je vous remercie.
81. The President:   Thank you. Seychelles has the floor.
82. Seychelles:   Thank you, Mr President. Seychelles looks forward to this unacceptable situation being addressed and  redressed in the meeting this afternoon.
83. The President:   Thank you. South Sudan has the floor.
84. South Sudan:   Thank you, Mr President. South Sudan would like to associate itself with the comments made by the previous  Member States. It is obvious that this is not acceptable and we therefore need to find a solution to this problem. We  would like to propose that the principle to be used be equitable geographical distribution or representation and this needs  to be reflected in a resolution to be adopted by the General Conference. I thank you very much.
(86) Koweït (traduit de l’arabe) :   L’État du Koweït souscrit aux propos du représentant du Yémen et l’en remercie. Le Koweït considère qu’il est triste  et regrettable que la priorité accordée à l’Afrique n’ait pas été respectée lors de la session d’hier du Comité du patrimoine  mondial. Je vous remercie, Monsieur le Président.
87. The President:   Thank you. Tunisia has the floor.
88. Tunisie :   Merci, Monsieur le Président. La Tunisie apporte aussi son appui à la proposition du Yémen.
89. The President:   Thank you. The last speaker, Comoros has the floor.
90. Comores :   Merci, Monsieur le Président. Les Comores remercient vivement le Yémen et s’associent aux déclarations des  délégations qui ont précédé.
91.1 The President:   Thank you for all your comments. I believe the report of the Nominations Committee is adopted with no  objections. If so, it is so decided.
91.2 Your Excellency, Ms Utegenova, I wish to thank you and the members of the Nominations Committee for your  commitment and very successful work. Dear colleagues, we have thus finished our work for this morning. The last  meeting of the plenary will start at 4 p.m. this afternoon when we will examine the reports of the Joint Meeting of the  Commissions and adopt the Appropriation Resolution before closing the session. I now give the floor to the Secretary.
92. The Secretary:   Thank you, Mr Chair. Just to remind you that the Joint Meeting of the Commissions will convene at 12 noon in  Room II. Thank you.
93. The President:   Thank you. The meeting is now adjourned.  The meeting rose at 11.55 a.m.  La séance est levée à 11 h 55  Se levanta la sesión a las 11.55  Заседание закрывается в 11.55  صباحاً  ١١,٥٥اسلسة يف الساعة  رفعت   会议于 11 时 55 分结束