1. The President:   Good afternoon ladies and gentlemen, dear colleagues, I declare open the eighteenth plenary meeting, which  will be the last meeting of this session of the General Conference. Over the past 14 working days, we have accomplished  a lot together, and our work is almost done. However, there are two very important items which we need to consider  today – the examination of the report of the joint meeting of commissions, and the adoption of the Appropriation  Resolution for 2014-2015. Let us therefore start by examining the report of the joint meeting of commissions. The joint  meeting was chaired by the Chairperson of the APX Commission, Mr Matthew Sudders, who will present the report  contained in document 37 C/69. Your Excellency, you have the floor.  Report of the joint meeting of commissions (37 C/69)  Rapport de la réunion conjointe des commissions (37 C/69)  Informe de la reunión conjunta de las comisiones (37 C/69)  Доклад совместного заседания комиссий (37 C/69)  )٦٩م/٣٧ج للجان تقرير االجتماع المشترك   各委员会联席会议的报告
2.1 Mr Sudders (United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland) (Chairperson of the joint meeting of  commissions):   Thank you very much Mr President. Mr President of the General Conference, Madam Chair of the Executive  Board, Madam Director-General, Excellencies, distinguished delegates and dear colleagues, I had the honour of chairing  the joint meeting of commissions, which examined four items in four sessions held on 6 and 18 November, and this very  morning, 20 November. It is now with great pleasure that I submit to you for consideration this last but not least report of  the 37th session of the General Conference.
2.2 The draft resolutions that the commissions jointly recommended to the General Conference for adoption are  contained in document 37 C/69. The draft appropriation resolution for 2014-2015 was examined this morning at the last  joint meeting, and is contained in a separate document, 37 C/13. There is a correction that needs to be made to the  document we saw this morning, which I will mention later.
2.3 The first joint meeting of commissions, held on Wednesday 6 November, discussed item 4.2 and the procedure  for the examination and adoption of the Draft Programme and Budget for 2014-2017 (37 C/5) as a matter of priority.  Based on a recommendation of the General Committee of the General Conference and the plenary, which adopted the  same recommendation on the same day, members of the joint meeting endorsed the recommendations of the Executive  Board as contained in paragraph 58 of document 37 C/6 that changed the programme transfers and budgetary shifts to  several major programmes that had been proposed in the draft 37 C/5 document. The joint meeting of commissions also  endorsed paragraph 65 of document 37 C/6 that recommended revising the relevant parts of the major programmes in  document 37 C/5 affected by paragraph 58. These decisions enabled the programme commissions to examine the  corresponding draft resolutions which had been duly revised by the Secretariat to reflect those changes.
2.4 The first joint meeting of commissions also endorsed paragraph 16 of document 37 C/6 Part II that  recommended that the General Conference make an amendment to the draft appropriation resolution in response to the  expected cash-flow situation. I shall come back to this matter later on in my report when we come to the item on the draft  appropriation resolution.
2.5 Finally, the members of the commissions present at the joint meeting endorsed the Executive Board’s  recommendations contained in 37 C/6 Addendum concerning the expenditure plan based on the expected cash flow of  $507 million for 2014-2015. Let me recall that this expenditure plan, which was presented to the General Conference in  document 37 C/5 Addendum 2, was prepared in conformity with the principles contained in paragraph 6 of the Executive  Board’s decision taken at its special session in July this year, and that the members of the joint meeting of commissions  also fully endorsed. By endorsing at a very early stage of the General Conference those relevant paragraphs contained  in the 37 C/6 documents, the joint meeting of commissions provided a clear direction for the work subsequently  undertaken in programme commissions, as was reported to you separately by the chairperson of each commission  yesterday and earlier this morning.
2.6 Mr President, let me now give you a brief overview of the discussions that took place in the second joint meeting,  when we examined item 3.1 on the consideration and adoption of the Draft Medium-Term Strategy for 2014-2021
(37 C/4), which Member States debated in conjunction with the Executive Board’s recommendations contained in  document 37 C/11. They also considered the proposed operational strategy for Priority Africa, the Priority Gender  Equality Action Plan and the Operational Strategy on Youth as well as six draft resolutions by Member States.
2.7 With regard to the draft resolutions tabled, the majority of members expressed their strong support for the draft  resolution on the action plan for the International Decade for the Rapprochement of Cultures, highlighting UNESCO’s  role as a lead agency for the Decade and in providing a solid platform for intercultural dialogue. With regard to the draft  resolution concerning the Silk Road Online Platform, many members underlined the importance of the global dimension  of the Silk Road project and its role in the dialogue and rapprochement of cultures. The novelty of the project was also  emphasized, especially through the use of information and communication technologies (ICTs) in promoting tangible and  intangible heritage.
2.8 With regard to the draft resolution concerning the Slave Route project (37 C/4 DR.5), members also expressed  their support and noted that it would prove instrumental in raising awareness of the consequences of slavery and the
409  slave trade for modern societies. In the same vein, support was expressed for the draft resolution on the General History  of Africa, with members emphasizing the importance of its inclusion in the curricula of schools in Africa as well as the  production of educational materials for countries in other regions, particularly those with citizens of African descent and  having historical ties with Africa. Members also welcomed the draft resolution on small island developing States (SIDS)  and expressed their support for its adoption, calling on UNESCO to redouble its efforts and work jointly with SIDS on a  programme of work encompassing climate change, education for sustainable development, tangible and intangible  cultural heritage and youth, among other things.
2.9 In expressing their support for the draft resolution on supporting the global citizenship agenda through education  for democracy, members highlighted the important contribution of UNESCO to the promotion of education for democracy  and global citizenship and empowering learners with the skills and attitudes to engage fully in building equitable and  democratic societies. Mr President, I am pleased to report that during the debate many members took the floor to  express their desire to be co-sponsors, and that all six draft resolutions were adopted by acclamation.
2.10 With regard to document 37 C/4, overall, members expressed satisfaction with the Director-General’s proposal  and underlined the Organization’s important lead role and the relevance of its mandate, especially in view of the post-
2015 development agenda. Members also welcomed the structuring of the Medium-Term Strategy around the two  overarching objectives relating to peace and sustainable development. In this regard, members called for further  enhancing the interdisciplinary character of the nine strategic objectives. Members also highlighted the role of UNESCO  in the fields of sustainability science (strategic objective 5) and freedom of expression (strategic objective 9), as well as  that of the UNESCO Institute for Statistics (UIS) in the provision of evidence-based data analysis. Delegates also  endorsed the recommendations of the Executive Board contained in documents 37 C/11 and 37 C/11 Corr. Rev.2 and  Addendum. In this regard, they reiterated the Executive Board’s recommendation that the proposed document should be  both shorter and more focused, thereby making it live up to its strategic title.
2.11 With regard to the strategies presented by the Secretariat alongside the C/4 document, members noted the  improvement in the revised Operational Strategy for Priority Africa and, while expressing broad support, stressed the  need to ensure an appropriate level of resources for the implementation of flagship programmes, requesting that a large  part of these resources be decentralized to the field and not kept here at Headquarters. They also welcomed the revised  Priority Gender Equality Action Plan, while placing particular emphasis on the education of girls. Some members,  however, emphasized that there was still room for improvement, especially with regard to monitoring and evaluation  aspects and the need to define baselines and adequate indicators to measure progress. The importance of both the  Operational Strategy for Priority Africa and the Priority Gender Equality Action Plan was reflected in the members’  request for the Director-General to include an analytical and impact-oriented yearly report on both priorities in her  statutory reporting to the Executive Board. Last but not least, members of the joint meeting expressed support for the  Operational Strategy on Youth. It was noted in general that particular attention should be paid to harnessing synergies  between these three strategies.
2.12 I would be remiss if I did not recall here the question of “how should the Medium-Term Strategy be approved”  which gave rise to a very lively debate. Members agreed that a definitive version of the C/4 document cannot be  approved at this stage as the redrafting required by previous Executive Board decisions has yet to be carried out. Some  members advocated entrusting the Director-General with the responsibility of amending the C/4 document in line with the  decision of the General Conference, while others favoured delegating the General Conference’s authority to the  Executive Board to ensure that the final version is in line with the General Conference’s decisions. The representative of  the Director-General reminded members that there was always a time gap between the approval of the C/4 document by  the General Conference and its finalization by the Director-General. In this regard, he suggested that the rolling character  of the Medium-Term Strategy could help address Member States’ concerns regarding the validation and adoption  process.
2.13 Mr President, I am pleased to report that the chairpersons of the respective programme commissions who were  invited to take the floor, prior to the examination of the global draft resolution on this item, all confirmed that the debates  that took place at the joint meeting were in sync with the discussions in their respective commissions. I am also pleased  to inform you that following the lively debates that I mentioned earlier on, the draft resolution on item 3.1 was finally  adopted by consensus. However, it should be noted that one member stated that it would have been preferable to adopt  only the non-contentious parts of document 37 C/4 and to see the remaining part revised by the Director-General for  submission to the General Conference at its 38th session. Another member expressed reservations regarding the  decision to use the term “adopt” when referring to document 37 C/4.
2.14 Mr President, at this juncture, let me recall something from the past. The first time that a draft medium-term plan  was submitted to the General Conference was in 1977, covering the period from 1977 to 1982. At that point in time, it  was necessary to set out why a medium-term strategy was needed. There were three relevant considerations that were  considered to be particularly important: first, the Constitution gave the ultimate goals of the Organization, but these are  stated in very general terms. They are of a permanent and consequently timeless character. The ideals that they stem  from are unimpeachable, but the guidance they provide for the elaboration of a short-term programme is of necessity too  broad and general. The medium-term plan, in fact, establishes the basis for a searching debate on the future activities of  the Organization. There is the need to realign the programme and bring it into sharper focus through recourse to  appropriate methods and instruments. As in all administrative structures, there are forces favourable to change and  forces in favour of the status quo, but these forces would be ineffective unless they were backed by rational arguments.  To establish the basis for such a debate, a means of identifying criteria for the choice of activities is, without doubt, one  of the principal reasons for the introduction of medium-term planning. Mr President, I believe that at times it is important  to follow the doctrine of Confucius and “study the past if you will define the future”.
2.15 Allow me now to move on to item 5.23 on UNESCO’s participation in the preparations for a post-2015  development agenda. This matter was discussed extensively at this session of the General Conference, first during the  Leaders’ Forum, and then in the programme commissions. In that respect, the five chairpersons of the commissions took  the floor to briefly present the conclusions of deliberations within their respective commissions to the joint meeting. The  members of the joint meeting of commissions endorsed, by and large, the all-encompassing draft resolution that was  proposed for their examination. In this regard, it was empasized that the text was elaborated with a view to reflecting  strictly the discussions that had taken place in the programme commissions and the draft resolutions that had been  recommended for adoption by two of them, namely the Education and Culture Commissions.
2.16 In the ensuing debate, two members voiced reservations concerning certain specific paragraphs of the text on  education. As the paragraphs in question were taken from the resolution that had been recommended by the Education  Commission for adoption by the plenary, the proposed amendments were placed in square brackets and subsequently  discussed at the plenary meeting yesterday, 19 November 2013. You will undoubtedly all recall the conclusions of that  debate in the plenary and the amendments agreed upon yesterday will be duly reflected in the final documents of the  General Conference.
2.17 As regards social and human sciences, some members wished to see the role of youth in social and economic  transformation underlined. Concerning communication and information, the importance of freedom of expression and  access to information to build knowledge societies was emphasized. Minor amendments to the draft resolution were  proposed to reflect these views and were endorsed by the members. Lastly, as concerns culture, one Member State  observed that discussions on a possible separate goal for culture should not be prejudged at this point in time.
2.18 Mr President, in the last joint meeting this morning following the approval of the relevant parts of documents
37 C/6 and 37 C/6 Addendum and Corrigendum by each programme commission, members endorsed these documents  in their entirety. As is customary at the last joint meeting, we also examined the draft appropriation resolution under item
4.3 of the agenda. Members endorsed the recommendation made by the Executive Board to authorize the Director- General to enter into commitments within the limits of the $653 million ceiling or, in case of a cash flow reduced to $507  million, within the limits of that ceiling, as per the expenditure plan. The draft appropriation resolution is contained in  document 37 C/13 for consideration and adoption by the General Conference in plenary. There is, however, one printing  error in the document which we should remove and I have checked with the Secretariat. At the bottom of the first page of  the table there is noted a figure as the “Reserve for after-service health insurance (ASHI) long-term liability.” This was not  part of the discussions at this General Conference. It does not form part of the $507 million expenditure plan and when  Member States took a decision on it, they only took a decision on it from the beginning of the next biennium. So we  should delete in our copies the reserve for the after-service health insurance liability and this will be accurately reflected  in the records of the General Conference.
2.19 Mr President of the General Conference, Madam Chair of the Executive Board, Madam Director-General, dear  colleagues, in concluding this last report of the General Conference, I wish to express my deep gratitude to all the  distinguished delegates who participated actively in the debates of the joint meeting of commissions. I thank most  particularly the chairpersons and vice-chairpersons of all the commissions who were at my side in our meetings and  provided valuable information on the conclusions of their commissions. Finally, let me also express my thanks to the  representatives of the Director-General, in particular Mr Hans d’Orville, Assistant Director-General for Strategic Planning  (ADG/BSP) and his team: Mr Jean Yves Le Saux and Ms Ranwa Safadi and to the Legal Adviser, who were available to  provide us with the necessary clarifications. Thanks as ever to the interpreters, translators, conference room clerks and  all the technicians, and finally to the Secretary of the joint meeting, Mr Sachin Bhatt and his team. Thank you for your  attention.
3. The President:   Thank you for your report, Ambassador Sudders. I wish to thank and congratulate you for chairing so  successfully the joint meeting of commissions. Dear colleagues, we will first adopt document 37 C/69. Are there any  comments on this document? Denmark, you have the floor.
4. Denmark:   Thank you Mr President and thank you to the Chairperson of the joint meeting of commissions for his excellent  and comprehensive report which does full justice to the rich debates of the joint meetings of commissions. I have a  comment relating to 37 C/DR.1 and 37 C/DR.2 and the way they are presented in the set of decisions in relation to the  Medium-Term Strategy. I recall that yesterday, during the meeting, the representative of the Director-General pointed to  the fact that the wording of the strategic objectives as reflected in these draft resolutions is not the final wording of the  strategic objectives. I would like that to be corrected. There is also a reference to a specific major programme which is  the wrong major programme and it would be preferable, as the strategic objectives are objectives for the whole  programme of the Organization, that the reference to that major programme be struck out. These very valid and  important comments by Mr d’Orville have not been taken into account and it was my understanding that the commissions  agreed and this would be reflected in the final version of the resolutions. Thank you very much Mr Chairperson.
5. Le Président :   Thank you very much. Monsieur l’Ambassadeur de la République démocratique populaire lao, vous avez la  parole.
6.1 République démocratique populaire lao :    Merci beaucoup, Monsieur le Président. Je voudrais tout d’abord remercier l’Ambassadeur Sudders pour la  présentation du rapport de la Réunion conjointe des commissions. C’est avec beaucoup de satisfaction que nous
411  constatons les qualités de celui qui dirige cette Commission avec brio et un grand talent. M. Sudders, nous vous  remercions.
6.2 Je voudrais maintenant revenir sur le point 5.23. J’ai évoqué, lors de la discussion consacrée à ce point, le  texte du paragraphe 4.1 du projet de résolution correspondant, qui concerne le domaine de l’éducation. Dans la partie I  de ce projet de résolution, j’ai noté à l’alinéa (v) un écart par rapport à la pratique en vigueur. Je cite : « Prend acte avec  satisfaction des efforts déployés par la Directrice générale en collaboration avec les partenaires de l’EPT, en vue de  promouvoir un objectif primordial sur l’éducation ». C’est la suite qui n’est pas conforme à l’usage ni à la pratique. Nous  ne pouvons pas écrire « Nous, États membres », dans le texte d’une résolution. Il s’agit plutôt là d’une déclaration. C’est  pour ça que je me permets de proposer une modification. Nous pourrions écrire ceci : « Encourage les États membres à  promouvoir cet objectif lors des discussions internationales consacrées à l’agenda mondial pour l’éducation en se  fondant sur les principes… ». La suite resterait identique. Je crois qu’en adoptant cet amendement, nous nous mettrions  en conformité avec l’usage et la pratique.
7. Le Président :   Merci beaucoup, cher collègue. Monsieur l’Ambassadeur, est-ce que vous pouvez répéter votre suggestion ?  Mr Sudders, you have the floor.
8. Mr Sudders (United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland) (Chairperson of the joint meeting of  commissions):   Thank you Mr President. The set of resolutions that we approved, we approved with the proviso that specifically  the education text on agenda item 5.23 would be updated in line with the decision of the plenary yesterday on the  outcome of the education debate. If there is a mismatch we can correct that in the records, but when we adopted our text  we placed both that point and one other in square brackets with a view to having a final version based on the outcome of  plenary debate yesterday on education. So my suggestion is that we double-check and make sure that it is case.
9. The President:    Thank you very much, Mr Sudders. Are there any other suggestions or comments? I give the floor to Mexico.
(10) Mexico (translation from the Spanish):   Thank you very much, Mr President. I wish to refer to document 37 C/69, paragraph 4, under item 3.1. Paragraph 2  of the resolution begins: “Adopts, without prejudice to paragraphs 7 and 8, document 37 C/4…”, but there are no paragraphs 7  and 8. In the original proposal, paragraphs 7 and 8 corresponded to the following two paragraphs in the resolution, which are  now numbered 3 and 4, and paragraphs 7 and 8 no longer exist. Although the numbers were changed, this has not been  reflected in the text. I propose changing the wording to: “Adopts, without prejudice to paragraphs 3 and 4, document 37 C/4…”,  which is what my delegation understood to have been approved. I therefore request this correction and, above all, more clarity  concerning what we are approving here. Thank you very much, Mr President, for your work.
11. Le Président :   La France, vous avez la parole.
12. France :   Merci, Monsieur le Président. Je voudrais revenir brièvement sur la réserve de quatre millions programmée  par erreur au titre de l’assurance maladie après cessation de service. Je voudrais juste saisir cette occasion pour  rappeler la recommandation instante du Commissaire aux comptes réitérée lors de la 192e session du Conseil exécutif. Il  est urgent et de la plus haute importance de trouver une solution rapide au problème de la dette accumulée au titre de  l’assurance maladie après cessation de service. Le système actuel n’est pas viable, ce sont ses propres mots. Si rien  n’est fait, cette dette avoisinera bientôt le milliard de dollars des États-Unis. Les États membres ne sauraient rester  indifférents à cette grave situation. Cette erreur en forme d’acte manqué était finalement, peut-être, la bienvenue. Merci.
13. The President:   Thank you very much. Mr Sudders.
14. Mr Sudders (United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland) (Chairperson of the joint meeting of  commissions):   Thank you. Just to note that the Mexican Ambassador is entirely correct. The sentiment of the decision we took  was that we were adopting without prejudice to the following two paragraphs in the draft resolution, which should now be  numbered three and four.
15. The President:   Thank you. I give the floor to Mr Millward, Secretary.
16. Le Secrétaire :   Merci, Monsieur le Président. Pour revenir à la proposition de correction faite par l’Ambassadeur de la  République démocratique populaire lao, je vais donc relire le texte de sa proposition. Elle porte sur l’alinéa (v) de la
412  partie I du projet de résolution correspondant au point 5.23, à la page 13 de la version française du document 37 C/69.  D’après ce que je comprends, l’alinéa (v) serait scindé en deux. La première partie se lirait comme suit : « Prend acte  avec satisfaction des efforts déployés par la Directrice générale en collaboration avec les partenaires de l’EPT en vue de  promouvoir un objectif primordial sur l’éducation ». La deuxième partie serait libellée comme suit. Je lis un peu plus  lentement : « Encourage les États membres à promouvoir cet objectif lors des discussions internationales… », le reste  demeurant, je crois, inchangé : « …consacrées à l’agenda mondial pour l’éducation en se fondant sur les principes  fondamentaux de l’accessibilité, de l’égalité et de la qualité dans la perspective de l’apprentissage tout au long de la  vie ». Voici la proposition d’amendement. Merci.
(18) El Salvador (translation from the Spanish):   Thank you very much, Mr President. First, I would like to thank the Chairperson of the joint meeting of commissions  for the comprehensive report submitted to us. Second, I would like to know the legal implications of the fact that Part I of the  resolution on item 5.23 on education is the same as the resolution of the ED Commission (Education) that we approved  yesterday afternoon regarding education beyond 2015. We wish to know the potential impact of having approved a resolution  of the ED Commission and approving another one now, on the same theme. Thank you.
19. The President:   Thank you very much El Salvador. Mr Sudders, you have the floor.
20. Mr Sudders (United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland) (Chairperson of the joint meeting of  commissions):   Thank you Mr President. We are in the hands of the plenary, but I just wish to emphasize again that in the joint  meeting of commissions we agreed to place the two parts of the education section that had reservations from Member  States in square brackets and that we would take without alteration the decision that was eventually adopted in plenary  by the Education Commission. In the Education Commission there was a great deal of debate around this section and I  believe they have adopted it. This is in the hands of plenary, but I just wish to emphasize what we agreed in the joint  meeting of commissions.
21. The President:   Thank you Mr Sudders. Saint Vincent and the Grenadines, you have the floor.
22. Saint Vincent and the Grenadines:   Thank you Mr President. I would like to thank the Chairperson of the joint meeting of commissions for his  excellent report. I would just like to add Saint Vincent and the Grenadines as co-sponsors of the draft resolution because  that has been overlooked. Thank you.
23. The President:   Thank you very much. If there are no more comments or suggestions, may I then assume that the General  Conference takes note of the report of the joint meeting of commissions and adopts the draft resolutions contained in it,  as amended, subject to the decisions that the Conference may take on budgetary issues when adopting the  Appropriation Resolution for the next biennium? Thank you. It is so decided.  Item 4.3: Adoption of the Appropriation Resolution for 2014-2015 (37 C/13)  Point 4.3: Adoption de la résolution portant ouverture de crédits pour 2014-2015 (37 C/13)  Punto 4.3: Resolución de consignación de créditos para 2014-2015 (37 C/13)  Пункт 4.3: Резолюция об ассигнованиях на 2014-2015 гг. (37 C/13)  )١٣م/٣٧ج ٢٠١٥-٢٠١٤: اعتماد قرار فتح االعتمادات المالية لعامي ٤,٣البند    项目 4.3: 2014-2015 年拨款决议
24. The President:   Dear colleagues, the last item remaining on our agenda is item 4.3 “Adoption of the Appropriation Resolution for
2014-2015”. The document pertaining to this item is document 37 C/13. In his report, Ambassador Sudders presented  the draft appropriation resolution, which the six commissions, at their joint meeting, recommended for adoption. There is  one amendment as the Secretary mentioned. Mr Sudders, you have the floor.
25. Mr Sudders (United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland) (Chairperson of the joint meeting of  commissions):   I would like to reiterate that this was just an amendment to the table, which mistakenly had a line for funding the  after-service health insurance. That line was not something that had been agreed and it was decided that that it would  possibly come into play from the next budget. So the line should not exist, but the figure needs to stay there and it would  actually be part of anticipated cost increases.
26. The President:   Thank you very much Mr Sudders. Are there any comments on this resolution? I see none. May I take it that the  General Conference takes note of the report of the Chairperson of the APX Commission and adopts the Appropriation  Resolution for 2014-2015 contained in document 37 C/13 as amended? It is so decided.  Tribute to the Chair of the Executive Board  Hommage au Président du Conseil exécutif  Homenaje al Presidente del Consejo Ejecutivo  Выражение признательности Председателю Исполнительного совета   رئيس المجلس التنفيذيإشادة ب   向执行局主席致敬
27. The President:   Ladies and gentlemen, before we close this session, I wish to inform you that the General Committee yesterday  morning decided to pay tribute to the Chair of the Executive Board, Her Excellency Ms Alissandra Cummins. The  Committee recognized her professionalism, diplomatic skills and the dedication with which she presided over the Board  over the past two years. It therefore decided to recommend to the plenary the adoption of the draft resolution contained  in document 37 C/PLEN/DR.3. Dear colleagues, I now give the floor to the Secretary of the General Conference, who will  read out this text. Mr Millward, you have the floor.
28. Mr Millward (Secretary of the General Conference):   Thank you Mr President. The text of document 37 C/PLEN/DR.3 reads: “Tribute to the Chair of the Executive  Board. The General Conference, noting that Ms Alissandra Cummins will conclude her term of office as Chair of the  Executive Board, which she has held since 11 November 2011, at the end of the 37th session of the General Conference,  recognizing her enduring support for UNESCO’s mandate in education, the sciences, culture and communication and  information, her reaffirmation of the Organization’s ethical role within the United Nations system and her insightful  advocacy for UNESCO’s relevance in, inter alia, cultural and documentary heritage, culture and sustainable development,  small island developing States (SIDS) and the post-2015 international development agenda, acknowledging that the  Executive Board, under Ms Cummins’ able leadership, has been vigilant and responsive in addressing the  unprecedented challenges faced by UNESCO due to the serious budgetary shortfall for the 2012-2013 biennium, as well  as in proactively monitoring the reform and restructuring of the Organization to ensure long-term sustainability and  viability, further acknowledging the important efforts the Executive Board has made, under her guidance, inter alia, to  oversee the transition of the Organization from a biennial to quadrennial planning cycle, to identify programmatic  priorities for the Draft Programme and Budget for 2014-2017 (37 C/5) in case of continued budgetary shortfall, and to  conduct in a transparent and exemplary manner the procedures relating to the election of the Director-General,  appreciating her role in reinforcing the use of inter-sessional and enhanced participation mechanisms to ensure wider  consultation on the work of the Executive Board, including, inter alia, the examination of the Draft Medium-Term Strategy  for 2014-2021 (37 C/4) and the Draft Programme and Budget for 2014-2017 (37 C/5), commending her integrity,  transparency and resilience in steering the Executive Board through a very difficult mandate, expresses its profound  gratitude to Ms Alissandra Cummins for the invaluable services she has rendered to UNESCO”.
29. The President:   Thank you Mr Millward. Dear friends, may I take it that the General Conference adopts this resolution by  acclamation? Okay, thank you. It is so decided. Ladies and gentlemen, let me now give the floor to Ms Cummins, who  wishes to make a brief statement.
30.1 Ms Cummins (Barbados) (Chair of the Executive Board):   Madam Director-General, distinguished delegates of the General Conference, distinguished Members of the  Executive Board, dear friends and colleagues, I am extremely touched and humbled by your most generous tribute.  Although these words have been ascribed to me in my capacity as Chair of the Executive Board, I must emphasize that  the important work completed by the Board over these last two years is in every sense of the word the shared  accomplishment of each and every Board Member, as well as of each and every Member State that has actively  engaged with the Board in its proceedings. I am especially thankful to the members of the Bureau of the Executive Board  for their wise counsel and close collaboration throughout this biennium. Indeed, our accomplishments would not have  been possible without the comprehensive and invaluable support provided by the Director-General and the Secretariat at  all levels. In short, this has truly been a team effort, and it is only befitting that I, in turn, wish to applaud you as you have  applauded me.
30.2 Ladies and gentlemen, this has been a very difficult mandate. The withholding of almost a third of UNESCO’s  funding has had wide-ranging implications for the Organization, and continues to seriously undermine its ability to  thoroughly respond to the expectations of Member States. In fact, this biennium could have ended with our affairs in a  much worse position were it not for the vigilance and commitment of both the Board and the Director-General in seeking  ways to implement the programme and to maintain the relevance of UNESCO at the international level. For this, I am  deeply appreciative.
30.3 While the Director-General and her team have focused their efforts on reforming the Organization for enhanced  efficiency and visibility – and rightfully so I might add – as Chair of the Board, I have sought to concentrate the Board’s  attention on strengthening the credibility and integrity of its governance role, and through that, the credibility and integrity  of the Organization as a whole. In my opinion, it is through this concerted effort of both the Board and the Secretariat that  we have been able to move forward constructively in the reform process. Here, I would like to take this opportunity to
414  especially thank the External Auditors for the excellent support provided to the Board throughout its work. The audit  reports have been instrumental in bringing greater clarity on critical elements concerning the functioning of the  Organization, and have enabled the Board to take informed decisions. I also wish to extend my thanks to the Legal  Adviser and her team who have at all times sought to ensure that we did not deviate from the rules of the Organization.
30.4 However, the reform of our beloved Organization is not yet complete. Mirroring the soul-searching exercise  occurring throughout the United Nations system, we need to continuously reflect on how the Organization is to address  the concerns, issues and needs of today and tomorrow. One positive outcome of our struggles these past two years is  the emergence of a better understanding amongst Member States of the true value of UNESCO. We have seen that  there is indeed universal appreciation for the unique combination of multidisciplinary competencies within this House. We  have seen that UNESCO matters to the world.
30.5 From this point on, we need to have the courage to innovate so as to better leverage these competencies for  today’s realities. We need to innovate to ensure that UNESCO matters to the world of tomorrow. Similarly, drawing from  lessons learnt around the issue of governance within the United Nations system, the Executive Board should, in the  coming years, consider what is necessary for it to have the flexibility to test new approaches in the execution of its  function. Here, I would also like to highlight the dialogue that is ongoing amongst Member States throughout the United  Nations system on strengthening the procedures related to the appointment of senior posts within United Nations entities.  This dialogue stems from an increased awareness of and commitment to democratic principles by Member States, and  should be seen as a positive trend to be encouraged.
30.6 We have had the important duty of making a recommendation to the General Conference with respect to the  election of a Director-General. I am pleased to have had the opportunity to be part of this important and infrequent event.   It has been an unprecedented situation for the Organization in which an incumbent has had to contest such an election,  and I would like to underscore that throughout this process, Ms Bokova has at all times conducted herself in an  exemplary fashion, with the calm dignity which we would expect within an organization that places respect for human  dignity at the core of its credo. I wish to extend to her once again my personal congratulations and indeed echo her  comments at her investiture in thanking the other two candidates who offered themselves for your consideration.
30.7 Dear friends and colleagues, my time as Chair of the Board, and as the representative of Barbados to the Board  before this, has confirmed my steadfast belief that the mandate of UNESCO is critically important for the world. I am  personally very honoured by the trust which has been placed in me by my colleagues in the Board. I have also been  deeply touched by the support shown me by my colleagues from the Latin America and Caribbean Group (GRULAC)  region, Group III, throughout. But most especially I am entirely overwhelmed by the confidence afforded me by my  country Barbados to execute, to the best of my ability, the responsibilities required of the Chair of the Board. I should like  to take this opportunity to offer my best wishes to my successor to be elected on Friday and to assure that I stand ready  to assist in any way at any time.
30.8 Throughout my mandate as Chair, I have been inspired by one key ideal as expressed by our late Prime  Minister, Mr Errol Barrow, on Barbados’ assumption of membership to the United Nations. He said essentially that  Barbados would be guided in its activities within the United Nations family of nations by the principles of fairness and  equality. He pledged that Barbados would be “a friend to all, and a satellite to none”. This is the credo I have lived by  throughout. One that starts from the premise of mutual respect irrespective of race, class, religion, or the size or wealth  of a Member State. We are all relying on UNESCO to uphold and promote the ideals that will create a better world for  humanity, a humanity that transcends narrow self-interests, while at the same time celebrating the uniqueness of each  and every individual, a humanity built on solidarity, justice and dignity, a humanity that is at peace with itself. In the words  of Albert Einstein, “Peace cannot be kept by force, it can only be achieved by understanding”. To further quote Eleanor  Roosevelt, “It isn’t enough to talk about peace. One must believe in it. And it isn’t enough to believe in it. One must work  at it”.
30.9 Ladies and gentlemen, herein lies the true mission of UNESCO – to work at building peace, to work at building  mutual understanding. Let us together strive to keep moving forward on this mission. Let us renew our commitment to  create a better world for our children, to all those generations of children as yet unborn, to the future generations of  humanity. Dear colleagues, I thank you all for the confidence you have placed in me as your Chair of the Executive  Board, and for the opportunity to serve this most noble House. Thank you for your attention.
31. The President:   Thank you Your Excellency. Ladies and gentlemen, allow me now to give the floor to the Director-General who  wishes to say a few words.
32.1 La Directrice générale :   Merci beaucoup, Monsieur le Président de la Conférence générale, Madame la Présidente du Conseil exécutif,  Excellences, Mesdames et Messieurs. Permettez-moi de remercier Mme Cummins pour ce discours tellement  courageux, je dirais même visionnaire et source d’inspiration. C’est aussi, comme toujours, un plaisir de saluer le travail  accompli durant l’exercice biennal par le Conseil exécutif, sous l’impulsion de sa Présidente, Mme Cummins, surtout  lorsque l’exercice biennal a été aussi important que celui-ci, comme elle l’a bien indiqué il y a quelques minutes, et que  la Présidente du Conseil n’est autre qu’Alissandra Cummins. Je voudrais aussi vous remercier pour vos paroles si  gentilles à mon égard lors de la cérémonie d’avant-hier, et aussi pour le plaisir que le Secrétariat – je parle en son nom –  a eu à travailler avec vous.
32.2 Je pense aussi me faire la porte-parole de tous en saluant la manière toujours très directe, très franche, avec  laquelle vous avez su animer les débats et donner aux États membres une image fidèle et réaliste de la situation : les
415  contraintes associées à un budget ramené à 507 millions de dollars, ses conséquences pour l’Organisation, la nécessité  d’accélérer la réforme, de se concentrer sur les priorités de l’Organisation. Et comme vous l’avez très bien dit, Madame  la Présidente, l’UNESCO a su faire face à une crise financière d’une ampleur inouïe, qui a mis à l’épreuve les défenses  de notre Organisation, comme rarement au cours de notre histoire.
32.3 Cette épreuve nous a révélé à nous-mêmes notre capacité collective de faire front avec unité et ce résultat,  nous le devons aussi à votre direction éclairée et à la manière dont vous avez su garder tous les membres du Conseil  mobilisés, non seulement pendant les sessions, mais également entre les sessions. Cette continuité de l’action menée  sera impérative à l’avenir pour l’UNESCO, dont la gestion demande, plus que jamais, une concertation permanente. Je  voudrais aussi remercier, à travers vous, les membres du Conseil exécutif pour leur contribution inestimable au bon  déroulement de nos travaux, et je salue le bureau, les vice-présidents, et les deux présidents de Commission.  (La Directrice générale poursuit en anglais)
32.4 Madam Chair, you did all this with strength and vision, and, most of all, I would say always with humour and  sometimes a strong dose of understatement. This has been a testing biennium for Member States and for the  Organization, calling for the best of all of us, for our fullest solidarity and cooperation. This has called for true leadership,  for an ability to bring people together, to remind them, as you did sometimes firmly, sometimes gently, but always with a  conviction of the vision they share and their responsibilities towards this. So, if you allow me dear Alissandra, you have  done all of this, acting with grace in trying times, with determination in moments of general uncertainty.
32.5 In your opening remarks to the first plenary meeting of this General Conference, you stated, and I quote: “Now is  the time we must seriously reflect, at the highest level of our governments, on the depth of our collective investment in  education, the sciences, culture and communication and information as pillars of long-term human progress. Now is also  the time for Member States to take the message that UNESCO matters for the world”. A message that you yourself just  pronounced again with the firm conviction and firm commitment that you hold. So these are the words, Madam Chair,  that will guide us also in our future work.
32.6 At this time of opportunity and challenge, I am confident these words will help guide us in moving forward, to  meet the great ambitions of our mandate. So it is also in this spirit, I am honoured to present you in a while with a medal  which represents a Duho armchair, a masterpiece of Taïno art, made by the Arawak Indians of the Greater Antilles. I was  thinking that it may seem a bit ironic to offer a medal representing a chair to someone who is constantly on the move and  constantly having the inspiration of learning about the world, of contributing to the world, for understanding this world and  making the most of what UNESCO can do for the rest. And also a while ago, a colleague from the Secretariat said I  should not offer you a chair when you are constantly on the move and even dancing in such a wonderful way when we  had Magic System here singing “Bouger Bouger”. But I really believe that you deserve this medal as a symbol of cultural  diversity, as a symbol of heritage. It was used in ritual ceremonies for the highest personalities. I think this is a testimony  of the high esteem we all have for you and I would like to say on behalf of UNESCO I am deeply honoured to present this  medal in recognition of everything that you have done for this Organization in very trying times these last two years.   (Applause)
33. The President:   Thank you very much Madam Director-General. Dear Ms Cummins, just like the gold medal, the numerous  rounds of thunderous applause are a sign of the General Conference’s strong appreciation of your able leadership. On  behalf of all of us here today, including many delegations who would have preferred to take the floor personally, I want to  thank you very much again for your service and able guidance.  Closure of the 37th session of the General Conference  Clôture de la 37e session de la Conférence générale  Clausura de la 37ª reunión de la Conferencia General  Закрытие 37-й сессии Генеральной конференции    اختتام الدورة السابعة والثالثين للمؤتمر العام 大会第三十七届会议闭幕
34. The President:   Ladies and gentlemen, we have thus finished our agenda for this session of the General Conference. Allow me  now to give the floor to the Director-General who wishes to say a few words as this session draws to a close.
35.1 The Director-General:   Mr President of the General Conference, Madam Chair of the Executive Board, Excellencies, ladies and  gentlemen, in closing this session, I wish to thank all Member States for their commitment to UNESCO. From every  country, from all parts of the world, we have heard a resounding endorsement of UNESCO’s mandate. This 37th session  of the General Conference occurred at a critical juncture on the global agenda, at a time when the planet faces  increasing pressures, when countries are accelerating towards the Millennium Development Goals and education for all  by 2015. And this is the first message I take with me – accelerating to reach the Millennium Development Goals and  education for all objectives must remain our first priority, and it is definitely my first priority.
35.2 We have a little bit more than two years left before the deadline and in many areas, we can do it – it is doable.  This is a development issue, and it is also a credibility issue. We must keep the promises we made in 2000 to be credible  in setting a new one to follow. As every country today is seeking new sources of dynamism and cohesion, to design new
416  approaches to development, I have also heard the strong message from Member States about the importance and  relevance of UNESCO to propose new ways of reaching sustainability, new multipliers for change. Education, culture,  the sciences, communication and information, knowledge sharing, freedom of expression – all of these are key drivers of  sustainability. They are forces for social justice, eradication of poverty, maternal health and inclusion. These are the  human dimensions of human development.
35.3 I am more determined than ever to promote inclusive quality lifelong learning. I am determined to mobilize the  power of sciences, technology and innovation policies and frameworks for sustainable development. I am determined to  move forward with the agenda of culture and put it in the development debate. These are drivers to strengthen societies,  to tackle the challenges of our time – interdependence, inequalities and issues of vulnerability, as shown by the tragic  typhoon that struck the Philippines. This also draws our attention to the increasing fragility of all States today, and to the  pressing need for all of us to work together.
35.4 UNESCO is the universal platform for dialogue and for action to tackle these challenges. This is the importance  of our work today: to support societies in managing change, to shape it towards a more peaceful, inclusive and  sustainable future for all. In this respect, I would like to say that I took also very good note of the intervention by  Ambassador Sudders this morning, when he shared concerns about the work of the commissions and the contribution of  the Secretariat. As I have said on many occasions, the primary goal of the Secretariat is to serve Member States in the  common interest of the Organization. I am cognizant that decisions here at the General Conference are taken by  Member States and I can assure Ambassador Sudders and all Member States that I will continue to remind all staff of  their duties in fulfilling their work and to ensure such concerns have no grounds to arise.  (The Director-General continues in French)
35.5 Mesdames et Messieurs. Je tiens à remercier les chefs d’État et de gouvernement du Tchad, du Costa Rica, de  l’Équateur, de la Lituanie et de la Tunisie, ainsi que Son Altesse royale la Princesse Marie du Danemark et le Prince et  Grand Maître de l’Ordre de Malte, d’avoir partagé leurs vues avec nous. Le Forum des dirigeants a donné lieu à des  échanges très riches et équilibrés sous l’impulsion de Sashi Tharoor, Secrétaire d'État pour le développement des  ressources humaines de l’Inde, et de Steven Cole, présentateur de la chaîne de télévision Al-Jazeera. Je remercie  également les 140 personnalités, Vice-Présidents, Vice-Premiers Ministres, Ministres et autres éminents représentants  des États membres. Je remercie les observateurs, les organisations internationales et les organisations non  gouvernementales pour leur participation. Je salue tout spécialement les délégués du 8e Forum des jeunes   – certainement l’un des plus dynamiques de notre histoire – qui ont imprimé un ton positif et énergique à nos débats.
35.6 Cette Conférence générale, Mesdames et Messieurs, nous a permis de renouveler notre attachement à nos  valeurs communes, et même d’agrandir la famille de l'UNESCO, avec l’adhésion d’Anguilla. Nous disposons d’une  Stratégie à moyen terme, d’un Programme et budget, et donc d’un cadre et d’une feuille de route pour avancer. Je suis  déterminée à accélérer la réforme de l’UNESCO, dans l’esprit des recommandations issues de l'évaluation externe  indépendante, et même à aller au-delà.
35.7 Ensemble, nous allons réussir, en dépit des difficultés financières, à construire une UNESCO plus efficace, plus  visible et plus performante. Merci.
36.1 The President:   Thank you, Madam Director-General, for your wise words. Excellencies, distinguished colleagues, allow me now  to deliver a closing statement on behalf of His Excellency Mr Hao Ping, President of the General Conference.
36.2 “Madam Chair of the Executive Board, Madam Director-General of UNESCO, ministers and heads of  delegations, Excellencies, we have come to the end of our General Conference. Over the course of the last 15 days, we  have received over 3,000 delegates and we have been honoured with the visits of 140 ministers, four heads of State,  one prime minister, Her Royal Highness Princess Marie of Denmark and the Prince and Grand Master of the Order of  Malta. Over 700 staff, both permanent and temporary, were mobilized to assist in the organization of the General  Conference. We have successfully overseen the re-election of our Director-General, Ms Irina Bokova, with an  overwhelming majority of 92%. The new Members of the Executive Board were elected smoothly and the work of the  committees and commissions has been completed in a most effective and transparent manner.
36.3 This milestone achievement was made possible thanks to your wisdom, sincerity and confidence. We were all  guided by the spirit of harmony and an atmosphere of trust, thus enabling us to achieve what could have been  considered unachievable at the outset; for this was the shortest session ever tasked with covering the largest number of  documents in the Organization’s history. Therefore, I thank you for your collaboration and unfailing support for me. I also  would like to take this opportunity to thank all of the Vice-Presidents of the 37th session of the General Conference. I  have called upon you throughout these past two weeks and have relied on your wisdom in carrying out my functions.  Thank you so much for your support. My respectful and warm thanks also go to the Chair of the Executive Board,  Ms Alissandra Cummins, my dear friend from whom I have learned a great deal. Thanks to her and the whole Board, this  session has been converted into a success.
36.4 Madam Director-General, I would also like to thank you and your core team for the continued support you have  given me. You know the great esteem I have for you, Ms Irina Bokova. I am pleased to count you among my friends, and  I can say, on behalf of all the Member States which have re-elected you, that you will continue to have our firm support. I  would also like to acknowledge the commitment and enthusiasm of the Secretariat, led by the Director-General and her  Deputy Director-General, Mr Getachew Engida, the energetic work of the Assistant Director-General of the Bureau of  Strategic Planning (BSP) and his very able team which guided us throughout the Leaders’ Forum, and the patience of all  the Assistant Directors-General who had been present at the meetings to offer their helpful advice whenever required. I
417  would also like to take this opportunity to thank the Secretariat of the General Conference, an extremely dedicated team  of highly professional colleagues carefully managed by the Secretary of the Governing Bodies, Mr Michael Millward. This  team includes: Mr Luis Salamanques, Mr Edmond Moukala, Mr Boris Falatar, Ms Anna Bonetti, Ms Catherine Thiounn  and Ms Irma Gonzalez. Let me also thank those who we do not always see, but who have ensured the smooth  functioning of the Conference: the interpreters who have ensured that we are understood; the technicians who have  made sure everything worked like clockwork; the clerks inside and outside of this room, who have made sure that we  have the documents needed to do our business; and the coffee ladies who have ensured that during our late meetings  we had the sustenance needed to continue until the very end. Over the course of these weeks, I visited several of the  secretariats of the commissions and committees, and I was impressed by their hard work and I was informed that some  of them had even worked past midnight. Madam Director-General, please convey to them and the entire Secretariat our  thanks and appreciation for their continued support in furthering our collective work. I think they all deserve a round of  applause on our behalf.  (Applause)
36.5 Ladies and gentlemen, as the 37th session of the General Conference comes to an end, our harmonious  symphony is just starting, and like that of Schubert, it is an “unfinished symphony”. The world context is one that  challenges UNESCO to live up to its extraordinary mandate. Today, our mission to build the defences of peace in the  minds of women and men is more crucial than ever. At times, I have the impression that UNESCO’s Constitution was  meant for this present generation. As you go on to your responsibilities in your respective countries, remember that you  are the ambassadors of our Organization; the weighty responsibility of promoting the values of UNESCO still lies on your  shoulders. As an ambassador of our dear Organization, I strongly encourage you to continue to mobilize support, to  enable our Director-General to smoothly implement the numerous and far-reaching tasks that we have entrusted her with  for the well-being of our people and nations.
36.6 Over the course of these two weeks, the Director-General has clearly unveiled to us her inspiring strategic  programme that will lead us over the next four years and that will make UNESCO more relevant, more effective and  more efficient in responding to global challenges to peace and development. You know that since the beginning of her  first term, and in a particularly critical financial time, she has succeeded in sharpening the focus of UNESCO’s  programmes, positioning the Organization closer to the field, broadening its range of partnerships with the private sector,  civil society and other intergovernmental organizations, and has reinforced its role, more than before, within the United  Nations system. I know that we all appreciate the fact that we have an experienced hand to guide us over the next four  years, yet the enormity of the task entrusted to her will require our unwavering support to her in order to ensure the well- being of our people and nations. Thank you.”
36.7 Ladies and gentlemen, distinguished colleagues and friends, we have thus come to the end of our last plenary  meeting. On behalf of the President of the General Conference, His Excellency Mr Hao Ping, and in my own name, I  wish to thank you for your active participation, thoughtful statements, and wise decisions over the past two weeks. I bid  you farewell and wish you a safe journey home. Before I use the gavel one last time to mark the end of this session, we  will listen to a short programme of Chinese Guang Dong music and a chorus from Verdi’s Traviata, prepared by Maestro  Jorge Lozano-Corres and performed by soloists Hye-Young Stoullig and Paul Gaugler, and orchestra.  (Musical interlude)
37. The President:    Thank you very much, maestro, for bringing this Conference session to a harmonious close as the President  would have wished. I now declare closed the 37th session of the General Conference of the United Nations Educational,  Scientific and Cultural Organization.  The meeting rose at 6.05 p.m.  La séance est levée à 18 h 05  Se levanta la sesión a las 18.05  Заседание закрывается в 18.05  الظهر بعد ٦,٠٥اسلسة يف الساعة  رفعت   会议于 18 时 05 分结束