370  Report of the joint meeting of commissions (38 C/96)  Rapport de la réunion conjointe des commissions (38 C/96)  Informe de la reunión conjunta de las comisiones (38 C/96)  Доклад совместного заседания комиссий (38 C/96)  )٩٦م/٣٨ج للجان تقرير االجتماع المشترك   各委员会联席会议的报告(38 C/96)
1.1 The President:   Good afternoon, Excellencies, ladies and gentlemen. I declare open the eighteenth plenary meeting, the very  last one of the 38th session of the General Conference. We have exchanged our views, we have shared our best  national practices, we have also shared our vision for the future of our Organization. We have, during the past weeks,  greeted many a distinguished guest, we have deliberated many an important issue, and we have experienced moments  of very strong emotion.
1.2 Indeed, ladies and gentlemen, we have accomplished a lot together over the past 15 days, and our work is  almost done – unbelievable! However, there are two very important items which we are yet to consider – the examination  of the report of the joint meeting of commissions, and the adoption of the Appropriation Resolution.
1.3 Let us therefore start with the first of these items, and examine the report of the joint meeting of commissions.  The joint meeting was held this morning, under the able chairmanship of Ambassador Sudders, Chairperson of the APX  Commission. He will present the report contained in document 38 C/96. Your Excellency, Ambassador Sudders, you now  have the floor, Sir.
2.1 Mr Sudders (United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland) (Chairperson of the joint meeting of  commissions):   Thank you very much Mr President, Mr Chair of the Executive Board, Mr Deputy Director-General, Excellencies,  distinguished delegates and dear colleagues, I had the honour of chairing the joint meeting of commissions, which  examined three items in two meetings held on 4 and 18 November, and it is now with great pleasure that I submit for  your consideration the last report of the 38th session of the General Conference.
2.2 The draft resolutions that the commissions jointly recommended to the General Conference for adoption are  contained in document 38 C/96. The draft appropriation resolution for 2016-2017, which was examined this morning at  the last joint meeting, is contained separately, in document 38 C/13.
2.3 The first joint meeting of commissions, held on Wednesday 4 November, discussed agenda item 3.5 relating to  the adoption of the provisional budget ceiling for document 38 C/5 (2016-2017). Herein the recommendation of the  Executive Board to the General Conference with regard to the budget ceiling as contained in document 38 C/6, which is  a programme and budget scenario of $667 million, including $653 million of assessed contributions from Member States  as well as $14 million in additional appropriations, and the related $518 million expenditure plan based on an expected  cash flow of $507 million and additional appropriations of $11 million for 2016-2017. These were both endorsed. The joint  meeting of the commissions also provided guidance on the budget envelopes for each major programme.
2.4 By endorsing the relevant paragraphs contained in document 38 C/6 at an early stage of the General  Conference, the joint meeting of commissions provided a clear direction for the work subsequently undertaken in  programme commissions, as was reported to you separately by the chairperson of each commission between Friday 13  and Tuesday 17 November.
2.5 Mr President, now let me turn to the discussions that took place this morning at the second meeting of the joint  commissions. Following the adoption of the relevant parts of documents 38 C/6 and 38 C/6 Addendum by each  programme commission, Member States adopted these documents in their entirety after having taken into account the  structural adjustments that had been proposed by the Director-General at the 197th session of the Executive Board and  as reflected in document 38 C/INF.17 and Corr. These adjustments only concerned budget transfers from one line to  another within major programmes - between culture and social and human sciences, and from the Bureau of Strategic  Planning (BSP) to a newly created “Field Support and Coordination” (FSC) service. Those were the two major changes.  They did not impact the overall budget envelope.
2.6 As is customary, the last joint meeting of commissions also examined the draft appropriation resolution under  item 3.3 of the agenda. This resolution is contained in document 38 C/13 for consideration and approval at this plenary  meeting of the General Conference.
2.7 With regard to the section of the draft appropriation resolution dealing with transfers, and based on a draft  resolution, the limit of the transfers which the Director-General could make between appropriation lines without the prior  approval of the Executive Board was changed to 2% from the 5% initially proposed. It was noted that a 2% margin would  continue to allow a sufficient level of flexibility, while ensuring stability for the smaller programmes. The joint meeting of  commissions was also reassured that during the course of the biennium the Director-General would take into account  both the letter and the spirit of the resolutions and decisions of the governing bodies.
2.8 In response to more technical aspects, the Secretariat noted that the original proposal to increase the level of  transfer flexibility had stemmed from the decision of the Executive Board to increase the level of flexibility in order to  compensate for the proposal to lower the appropriation level from the major programmes to main lines of action. The  Secretariat had also conducted a review of eight United Nations agencies, wherein it was noted that the level of transfer  flexibility varied from one agency to another and that it was related to the number of budget appropriation lines.
2.9 Member States reiterated that any savings identified in the biennium should go to strengthening the major  programmes. This was a decision that they felt that they had taken in the previous biennium, and on this occasion, given  the experience of the last biennium, they decided to include this principle in the draft appropriation resolution in order to  make it a binding principle. Once again it was stressed that decisions should be implemented, not interpreted. One  Member State urged particular attention to be given to reinforcing the World Heritage Centre (WHC).
2.10 The section of the draft appropriation resolution dealing with staff was also amended slightly to clarify that the  Director-General should request prior approval from the Executive Board for any change in Annex II to the total number  of Assistant Director-General (ADG) posts and to the total number of grade D-1 posts and above. Member States also  requested a clearer link be made between the number of ADG posts and those receiving salaries at that level and this  was established in the draft appropriation resolution which was duly amended to that effect.
2.11 One Member State further noted that the posts of the category 1 institutes which were funded by the regular  budget should also be included in Annex II of the C/5 document. One Member State requested that, to the extent  possible, and within the budgetary prerogatives of the Director-General, the secretariats of the culture conventions  should be reinforced, particularly with a view to the fulfilment of statutory obligations.
2.12 Before approval, the joint meeting of commissions was reminded that by approving the draft appropriation  resolution and its revised appropriation table, which includes the Director-General’s proposed structural adjustments, the  joint meeting of commissions would also be adopting the recommendations of the Executive Board contained in  documents 38 C/6 and 38 C/6 Addendum, with emphasis on the fact that the balance of the Emergency Fund would go  to fund the zero nominal growth plus ceiling, and that any remaining balance of the Emergency Fund would go to the  Invest for Efficient Delivery Fund. With that in mind, I draw your attention to subparagraphs 8, 9 and 10 of document
38 C/6, paragraph 18, which we are hereby adopting.
2.13 Mr President, the joint meeting of commissions then examined item 3.4 on the preparation of the Draft  Programme and Budget for 2018-2021 (39 C/5). As this was on the agenda of each commission, there were constructive  debates in each of them and the Secretariat had provided an information document (38 C/INF.19) summarizing those  debates. The chairperson of each commission also briefly took the floor in the joint meeting this morning to present the  outcomes of those debates. The two draft resolutions that had been submitted on this were in fact complementary rather  than contradictory and were thus examined as such – in a single merged draft resolution.
2.14 Some Member States expressed their reservations concerning the singling out of a specific programme when  the draft resolution should have been general in nature. This was in particular related to the Management of Social  Transformations Programme (MOST) Programme. A Member State also reminded us that youth too was a priority and  should not be neglected.
2.15 Mr President, document 39 C/5 will be crucial for UNESCO’s positioning on the achievement of the 2030  Agenda, for Sustainable Development and so preparations for it are of critical importance. On that, allow me to quote a  Japanese strategist, Miyamoto Musashi, “Perception is strong and sight weak. In strategy it is important to see distant  things as if they were close and to take a distanced view of close things.”
2.16 Mr President of the General Conference, Mr Chair of the Executive Board, Deputy Director-General and dear  colleagues, it was my last Finance and Administrative (FA) report in the Executive Board and my last APX report on  Friday 13 November, and this is my last joint meeting of commissions report, and I believe the last report of the General  Conference. I wish to pay tribute to all the Member States for their active participation and for their support for me in my  functions. Allow me to recall the words of Albert Camus, “Real generosity toward the future lies in giving all to the  present”. I thank most particularly the Chairpersons and Vice-Chairpersons of all the commissions who were at my side  in our meetings. Finally, allow me also to express my thanks to the Director-General, the Deputy Director-General,  Mr Tang, the officer-in-charge of the Bureau of Strategic Planning (BSP), Mr Jean-Yves Le Saux, the Legal Adviser, the  Director of the Bureau of Human Resources Management (HRM) and the Chief Financial Officer (CFO), who were all  available to provide the necessary clarifications and answers to our queries. Thanks, as ever, to the interpreters, the  translators, the conference room clerks and technicians for their support. And last, but by no means least, thanks to  Mr Sachin Bhatt and his excellent team, who have supported me throughout this work. Thank you for your attention.
3. The President:   Thank you very much, Ambassador Sudders, for presenting a very comprehensive but very clear report. Dear  colleagues, are there any comments on the report? I do not see any. May I then assume that the General Conference  takes note of the report? Argentina, you have the floor now, Madam.
(4) Argentine (traduit de l’espagnol) :   Merci beaucoup, Monsieur le Président. Ma délégation souhaite féliciter en particulier l’Ambassadeur Sudders pour  l’excellente manière dont il a conduit les travaux de cette reunión conjointe, ainsi que pour son dynamisme et son  professionnalisme. Nous tenons également à saluer son aptitude remarquable à créer des consensus. Je vous remercie.
5. The President:   Thank you very much. I see the distinguished representative of the Islamic Republic of Iran.
6. Islamic Republic of Iran:   Mr President, I would like to echo strongly what was said by Argentina. Thank you.
7. The President:   Thank you very much. I see El Salvador would like to take the floor.
(8) El Salvador (traduit de l’espagnol) :   Merci, Monsieur le Président. Mon pays souhaite tout particulièrement remercier l’Ambassadeur Sudders pour la  façon remarquable dont il a dirigé, ces quatre dernières années, les réunions de la Commission financière et administrative.  L’Ambassadeur Sudders a grandement contribué à trouver de bons consensus et à établir des ponts entre tous les groupes  régionaux, ce dont nous lui sommes reconnaissants. Cher Ambassadeur et ami, vous avez été un excellent président, et celui  ou celle qui vous succèdera devra déployer des efforts considérables pour atteindre votre niveau d’excellence. Je vous  remercie.
9. The President:   Thank you very much. United Arab Emirates.
10.1 Émirats arabes unis :   Monsieur le Président, merci de m’avoir donné la parole. Ces moments de gravité sont aussi des moments de  récolte, et je peux témoigner que la présence des Émirats arabes unis lors de cette Conférence générale a été intense et  fructueuse et que nous n’avons pas lésiné sur les moyens pour venir en aide à tous les projets de construction et de  modernisation de l’UNESCO.
10.2 Je voudrais mettre l’accent sur le rôle prodigieux qu’a joué M. Sudders durant les années où il a présidé la  Commission APX. Il a été d’une grande patience, d’une grande diplomatie. Il a toujours su arrondir les angles et il a  construit les consensus dont on avait besoin, grand besoin. Je pense qu’avec lui, nous avons pu faire une autopsie en  profondeur de la situation financière de l’UNESCO et des programmes, parce que tous les éléments sont organiquement  liés et qu’il est très difficile de les séparer les uns des autres.
10.3 Je voudrais dire un dernier mot de remerciement à tous ces soldats, connus et inconnus, qui se sont employés,  en donnant de leur personne avec un extrême dévouement, à conférer sa cohérence à la Conférence générale et à ses  différents volets. Nous avons vécu un grand moment et je pense que l’UNESCO repart aujourd’hui mieux armée pour  affronter les difficultés et pour rayonner sur un monde parfois obscur et obscurantiste. C’est à nous tous, à présent, de  jouer, et de bien jouer. Merci.
11. The President:   Thank you very much, Your Excellency. I like your choice of words with “financial autopsy.” But I like the context  in which it was used, Sir, not the literal context; I really like it. Thank you very much. Next, the distinguished  representative of Portugal, and then I see Bangladesh.
12. Portugal :   Merci beaucoup, Monsieur le Président. Le Portugal souhaite s’associer à ce qui vient d’être dit par l’Argentine  et, de manière tellement éloquente, aussi bien par Mme l’Ambassadeur d’El Salvador que par le distingué représentant  des Émirats arabes unis. En effet, l’Ambassadeur Sudders a su traiter avec une sensibilité extraordinaire des matières  qui, à première vue, pouvaient paraître difficiles, complexes, incompréhensibles même, et a su prendre chez chacun de  nous ce que nous avions de mieux à proposer en éclaircissant parfois les points que nous souhaitions mettre en valeur.  Le Portugal remercie donc très vivement l’Ambassadeur Sudders pour tout ce qu’il a fait dans le cadre de la Commission  financière et administrative, et aussi pendant cette Conférence générale. Merci beaucoup, Monsieur l’Ambassadeur  Sudders.
13. The President:   Thank you very much. I believe that we have exhausted our list and once again let us thank Ambassador  Sudders for a job well done because I, too, sat in so many of those Commission meetings and indeed he was able to  drive us to the desired conclusion. Once again, thank you very much. Sorry, I forgot about Bangladesh. My sincere  apologies, Bangladesh. Yes Sir, bring our discussion to a close, Honourable Minister.
14. Bangladesh:   Thank you, Sir. Mr President, I thank His Excellency, Ambassador Sudders, for an excellent report which reflects  his knowledge and insight of UNESCO administrative and financial issues. The Bangladesh delegation also  acknowledges his excellent work as Chair of the FA Commission and in the Executive Board, and in the APX  Commission of the General Conference. Thank you very much.
15. The President:  Thank you very much Your Excellency for adding to the portfolio of gratitude that was expressed by several  Member States. Even those who chose not to take the floor, I am sure you agree in silence. May I then assume that the  General Conference takes note of the report of the joint meeting of commissions and adopts the draft resolution  contained therein, subject to the decisions that the Conference may take on budgetary issues when adopting the
373  Appropriation Resolution for the next biennium? Since I do not see any differing opinions, I take it that we have so  decided. Thank you very much.  Item 3.3: Adoption of the Appropriation Resolution for 2016-2017  Point 3.3 : Adoption de la Résolution portant ouverture de crédits pour 2016-2017  Punto 3.3: Aprobación de la Resolución de Consignación de Créditos para 2016-2017  Пункт 3.3: Утверждение Резолюции об ассигнованиях на 2016-2017 гг.
16. The President:   Dear colleagues, the last item remaining on our agenda is item 3.3, “Adoption of the Appropriation Resolution for
2016-2017”. The document pertaining to this item is document 38 C/13. In his report, Ambassador Sudders presented  the draft appropriation resolution which the six commissions, at their joint meeting, recommended for adoption. Are there  any comments on this resolution? I see none. May I take it that the General Conference takes note of the report of the  Chairperson of the APX Commission and adopts the Appropriation Resolution for 2016-2017 contained in document
17. The President:   Ladies and gentlemen, we have thus finished our formal agenda for this session of the General Conference.  Allow me at this particular point in time to give the floor to the Deputy Director-General, who wishes to say a few words  as the session draws to a close. Mr Deputy Director-General, you now have the floor.
18.1 The Deputy Director-General:   Mr President of the General Conference, Mr Chair of the Executive Board, Excellencies, ladies and gentlemen,  on behalf of the Director-General I wish to thank every Member State for their commitment to UNESCO. This is  especially meaningful in this year when we are celebrating the Organization’s 70th anniversary. This is especially  meaningful after the devastating terrorist attacks that Paris suffered on 13 November. This criminal, barbaric act of  violence affects us all.
18.2 Violent extremism is a global challenge, and we must respond together. This year, in the Syrian Arab Republic  and Iraq, we have seen women and men, communities, killed, persecuted on the basis of religion and ethnicity. We have  seen humanity’s cultural heritage attacked, looted, to finance terrorism. These are all faces of the same violent  extremism. Fuelled by hatred, intolerance, false interpretations of faith, violent extremism seeks to divide humanity, to  tear it away from the history it shares, to destroy the culture that brings it together.
18.3 We can never accept this. Never. We must stand together, with France, with all women and men, with all  societies across all corners of the world. This violence reminds us of the vulnerability of all societies today. It also  reminds us of the steel of our resilience and resolve. This resilience finds shape in the Constitution of UNESCO, written
70 years ago after a devastating world war that flouted human rights and dignity like never before.
18.4 This session of the General Conference has seen a renewed commitment to the values, principles and  objectives at the heart of UNESCO. More than ever, the world seeks the “soft power” that is within the DNA of UNESCO.  This was true 70 years ago, and it has never been so relevant – one month after the United Nations Summit on  Sustainable Development in New York, when Member States agreed on the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development;  one month before the twenty-first session of the  Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention  on Climate Change (COP 21) in Paris, which many Member States see as part of the same, single agenda for  sustainability; at a time when women and men shoulder the burden of change, oftentimes discontinuous change, across  the world, we are determined to move forward.
18.5 We are determined to support every government in advancing quality education and learning opportunities for  every girl and boy, every woman and man, throughout life. We are determined to lead forward education for the twenty- first century, education for sustainable development, and global citizenship education. We are determined to lead the  change and take on the charge to prevent and counter violent extremism and cultural cleansing, wherever it may be. We  are determined to defend freedom of expression and press freedom, to enhance the safety of journalists, to end impunity  and help build knowledge societies. We are determined to support societies in managing social transformations, to  promote inclusion and justice. We are determined to advance science cooperation, to deepen ocean sustainability and  water management, to bolster disaster readiness. We are determined to empower girls and women everywhere, as a  human rights issue, as a development multiplier, as a sustainability and security imperative. We are determined to  support Africa’s renaissance, working with African governments, with the African Union, and regional communities, to  advance the culture of peace, to bolster capacities at every level. This requires a stronger UNESCO – and we will  continue the reform of the Organization to sharpen delivery, to ensure the Organization is fit for purpose at every level.
374  (The Deputy Director-General continues in French)
18.6  Excellences, Mesdames et Messieurs, les décisions de cette Conférence générale s’appuient sur une  mobilisation sans précédent des États membres, des organisations internationales, des ONG. Vous l’avez rappelé,  Monsieur le Président. Cette participation donne une assise robuste à l’ensemble des décisions qui ont été prises – sur  le budget, le programme, la stratégie pour la protection du patrimoine culturel et du pluralisme, pour l’éducation contre  l’extrémisme violent, pour la mise en œuvre de l’Agenda 2030 où les priorités de l’UNESCO sont fermement intégrées.  Cette participation est aussi un signe de confiance très fort dans la pertinence et l’avenir de l’UNESCO. Et nous le  constatons aussi avec l’adhésion de Montserrat comme nouveau membre associé. Chacun mesure la nécessité de  traiter ensemble, de manière intégrée, avec une approche globale, les enjeux de l’éducation, de la culture, de  l’information et du partage des savoirs pour créer une culture de la paix, pour lutter contre l’extrémisme, pour créer une  nouvelle conscience de l’environnement durable. L’UNESCO est la seule plate-forme mondiale qui permet d’aborder ces  questions de manière transversale. Et ces dernières semaines, elle a prouvé, une fois de plus, sa capacité à être un  laboratoire d’idées, avec des initiatives et des propositions, sur l’éducation inclusive, le droit d’asile pour les biens  culturels, une équipe spéciale d’intervention pour la protection du patrimoine associant civils et militaires, et tant d’autres  choses.
18.7 Lors du Forum des jeunes, lors du Forum des dirigeants et dans le cadre de dizaines d’événements parallèles,  cette Maison a vécu au rythme des idées, des initiatives, du partage des énergies qui nous font avancer. Toute cette  énergie, toutes ces idées, nous allons les porter ensemble, et nous allons commencer immédiatement avec la COP21  qui se réunit dans quelques jours. Merci à tous de votre engagement. Merci de votre confiance. Il y a beaucoup à faire,  alors au travail !  (L’orateur poursuit en anglais)
18.7 Excellencies, ladies and gentlemen, we have many challenges ahead of us. Standing in unity, we will defeat  violent extremism. We will get rid of the scourge of poverty. We will build societies that are inclusive and tolerant. Above  all, we will anchor our societies in justice, freedom, sustainable development and peace. This is the promise of UNESCO.  This is the mandate of UNESCO. Excellencies, allow me now, Mr President, as is customary, to offer the President of the  General Conference an honorary gavel in recognition of your excellent work. It is with great pleasure that I hand you the  gavel on behalf of the Director-General, Ms Irina Bokova. Thank you very much.
19.1 The President:   Thank you very much, Mr Deputy Director-General for your very wise and kind words. Mr Chair of the Executive  Board, Mr Deputy Director-General of UNESCO, Honourable Ministers and heads of delegations, Your Excellencies,  Ambassadors and Permanent Delegates to UNESCO, members of the media, ladies and gentlemen. We have now  come to the end of our engagement for the 38th session of the General Conference and I must admit that I have a  feeling of nostalgia. It is not too long ago that I took those steps coming from the podium very carefully, like a baby  learning how to walk for the first time, but after two weeks, I now have a level of comfort, and I can take those steps even  with my eyes closed. So if I had a wish, it would be, “Can we extend our engagement for another week?”
19.2 This session has been exceptional in many respects. First and foremost, it is ending on the first day which  follows the three-day national mourning of our host Member State following the terrorist attack last week. Here again,  Excellencies, I would like to reiterate our sincere condolences once more and express our sympathy to the French  people, their government and all the other nations that lost nationals during the attacks of the past week.
19.3 It is also the week of the 70th anniversary of our Organization and I am grateful and greatly appreciative of the  fact that we were able maintain the Leaders’ Forum and plenary sessions notwithstanding the attacks. In this regard, I  wish to renew, in particular, our deep gratitude to all the staff who organized the security not only of our building, but of  all the participants and those who were involved in the organization of the sessions and events.
19.4 Despite the current extremely difficult context of our host country and city, our deliberations concluded with the  participation of all of us as Member States at the highest level of representation. I believe that this is a strong message, a  clear indication that together we refuse to give in to the pressure, threats and destabilization attempts of extremism. Our  unreserved condemnation of terrorism goes hand-in-hand with our common will to continue debating key topics on  education, the sciences, culture, and communication and information.
19.5 As we bring the proceedings of the General Conference to a close, I must admit that it has been an extremely  enriching experience for me – from the first day I made the solemn pledge that I would do my utmost to preside over our  meetings in a fair and reasonable manner. I must say that I am humbled and gratified by the atmosphere of frankness,  trust and mutual respect established during the series of plenary sessions that we have had. In particular, I would like to  express my gratitude to you all for your commitment to following the highest standards for our Organization. Even in  moments when we could not reach consensus and had to resort to a vote, we displayed high levels of maturity and  tolerance, whereby the different positions of Member States were listened to, but above all, were respected by all.
19.6 The work of the committees and commissions has been completed in the most effective and transparent  manner. I wish to take this opportunity to congratulate the chairpersons of the respective commissions for their effective  leadership and management of the work of their commissions. Mr Deputy Director-General, I would also like to thank the  Director-General and your good self as well as your team, for the invaluable support provided to me. I acknowledge the  commitment, enthusiasm and professionalism of the Secretariat.
19.7 It was indeed a pleasure for me to work closely with the Secretary and Deputy Secretary of the General  Conference, Mr Jacques Rao and Mr Luis Salamanques, and I am taking this opportunity to wholeheartedly thank the
375  entire Secretariat of the General Conference, an extremely dedicated team of highly professional colleagues for a job  extraordinarily well done. And I would like to mention their names here: Mr Boris Falatar, Ms Anna Bonetti, and  Ms Martha Milanzi-Nguni. Many thanks also to – and I have dubbed this team the inner circle of the President –  Ms Dorine Dubois, Personal Assistant, Ms Catherine Thiounn, Senior Assistant, and Ms Yasmine Babiard. My respectful  and warm thanks also go to the Chair of the Executive Board, my dear brother Mr Mohamed Amr, who, and I am  speaking from experience, led the Executive Board effectively over the past two years. Let me also thank the silent  supporters of our meetings, the very important people, those who we do not always see, but who have ensured the  smooth functioning of the Conference, the dedicated staff behind the stage, in their offices at all times of the day,  sometimes even during the night. Your contributions, my dear colleagues, wherever you are, created the environment  required for the harmonious interactions that we have had as Member States.
19.8 Ladies and gentlemen, UNESCO, as any multilateral institution, needs to rely on the unity and cohesion of its  constituencies. Our tripartite configuration with a General Conference, an Executive Board and a Secretariat needs to be  strong, stable and united, to deal with both external and internal issues, while working in harmony in pursuit of the  Organization’s constitutional mandate. For this reason, I undertake today, before you, to provide the support and  guidance necessary for the checks and balances in our Organization. I am determined to do so within the framework of  my two-year term of office, as I sit ex officio  in an advisory capacity on the Executive Board, as an honest broker when  needed, always, and I am emphasizing this, in close collaboration with the Secretariat, while providing visibility to the  Organization and enhancing its profile whenever possible. Member States indeed have the sacred responsibility to  create the necessary enabling environment for the Secretariat to effectively implement our Organization’s programmes.
19.9 Ladies and gentlemen, dear friends, I wish to thank you once again for your participation, for your enlightened  and stimulating statements and for your wise decisions over the past two weeks. I wish you safe journeys back home to  your families, and look forward to our continuous joint cooperation to promote the ideals of our Organization, so that,  beyond our respective mandates, it can continue to support human development over decades. Thank you very much for  your attention.  (Applause)
(20.1) République arabe syrienne (traduit de l'arabe) :    Merci Monsieur le Président. Je vous félicite pour l’efficacité et la sagesse avec lesquelles vous avez assuré la pré- sidence de la Conférence générale, je félicite également les Ambassadeurs, le Président du Conseil exécutif et les Présidents  du Comité juridique et du Comité des finances pour le travail effectué, et je leur souhaite plein succès dans leurs futures fonc- tions. Je remercie le Secrétariat de la Conférence générale pour sa bonne gestion et son état de préparation, ainsi que les  traducteurs et tous ceux qui ont contribué au succès de la Conférence. Je félicite enfin Madame la Directrice générale pour le  succès de cette Conférence générale, qui coïncide avec le 70e anniversaire de la création de notre auguste Organisation,  malgré les circonstances difficiles que traversent le monde et mon pays, la Syrie.
(20.2) Le 14 novembre 2015, le Ministère syrien des affaires étrangères a publié le communiqué suivant condamnant les  crimes barbares commis à l’encontre du peuple français : « La République arabe syrienne condamne fermement les attaques  terroristes perpétrées à Paris, et tient à exprimer sa solidarité et sa sympathie au peuple français et aux familles des victimes  ainsi que ses vœux de prompt rétablissement aux blessés. Le peuple syrien, qui souffre depuis cinq ans des crimes de  groupes terroristes excommunicateurs appuyés depuis l’étranger, comprend mieux que quiconque l’atrocité de ce qui s’est  passé à Paris et les graves dangers que le terrorisme représente pour la paix et la sécurité du monde entier. La République  arabe syrienne réitère ce qu’elle a déjà affirmé à maintes reprises, à savoir que le terrorisme n’a pas de frontières et se re- tournera contre ceux qui l’appuient, d’où la nécessité d’unir tous les efforts sincères qui sont déployés au niveau international  afin de mettre un terme à ce fléau et de corriger les politiques erronées et à court terme qui servent les intérêts des terroristes,  l’objectif étant de combattre efficacement le terrorisme et ses plans et d’instaurer la paix et la stabilité dans la région et le  monde ». Je joins ma voix à ce communiqué, ainsi que celle de la délégation officielle de mon pays participant à la Confé- rence générale, et vous souhaite à tous plein succès. Merci Monsieur le Président de m’avoir donné la parole, et encore merci  à vous tous.
21. The President:   Thank you very much your Excellency. I now recognize the distinguished representative of the Islamic Republic  of Iran.
22.1 Islamic Republic of Iran:   Thank you very much, Mr President. Before you were called to be given the gavel, you told us that we have  come to the end of our formal agenda. Then what about our informal agenda? Then you said in your speech that you  would be our President for two years. Therefore I am sure you will not leave your gavel lying in a corner, you will not hide  it, you shall use it. I am sure you will try to bring us together for the informal agenda that we are going to pursue for two  years. I can see the formal governing bodies, the formal parts, I see you there, distinguished Chair of the Executive  Board who prepared the agenda for us and our distinguished Deputy Director-General representing our Director-General.  But all in all there is also an informal agenda. There should be. Why? Because when we talk about the formal agenda,  we are taking care of legalities, regulations, finally we say what is wrong or right, but there lies a field beyond right and  wrong, and that field is the field of beauty and ugliness. When we talk in our Constitution about intellectual and moral  solidarity, when we talk about intellectuality and morality, then we come to the concept, to the categorization of beauty  and ugliness. When it is combined with the concept of wrong or right, then we will find our informal agenda.
22.2 Therefore, while I would like to thank all of you, our distinguished President, the Board, the Chair of the Board,  our Director-General and our Deputy Director-General, I would like to ask you to please continue to chair us for our  informal agenda, because beyond this or that idea, beyond being legally right or wrong, there lies another field. We shall  meet there when the soul lies down on that beautiful grass, where the world is too full to talk about ideas, languages, and  even the phrase “each other” shall not make any sense, if we think about our beautiful, informal agenda. Thank you.
23. The President:   Thank you very much, Your Excellency, the President of the 31st session of the General Conference. That was  very wise and timely counsel. And when the elders offer us counsel, young people, like some of us, can only do one  thing and one thing only, and that is to listen and accept the wise counsel. Thank you very much, Your Excellency.  Bangladesh would now like to take the floor. You now have the floor, Sir.
24.  Bangladesh:   Thank you Sir. Mr President, as the 38th session of the General Conference is drawing to a close, I wish to  register my sincere appreciation for the manner in which you have presided over this historic session of the UNESCO  General Conference. Your straightforward and transparent approach, your wisdom and even-handedness played a  pivotal role in the smooth and fruitful conclusion of the 38th session of the General Conference. We look forward to  working closely with you for the next two years. I would also like to thank the Director-General, the Deputy Director- General and the able members of the Secretariat for their efficient support to the work of the General Conference. Before  I conclude, I wish to reiterate Bangladesh’s unflinching support to UNESCO in the fight against extremism and terrorism  through education and intercultural dialogue and by strengthening a culture of peace. Thank you, Mr President.
25. The President:   Thank you very much, Your Excellency, for those very kind words. Colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, we have  thus come to the end of our last plenary meeting and I wish to once again thank you all for your active participation, for  your very thoughtful statements and your very wise decisions over the past two weeks. Before I mark the end of the  session, we will have the pleasure of listening to a short musical performance prepared by Maestro Jorge Lozano-Corres,  and performed by none other than the UNESCO Choir. The first musical piece we will hear is a traditional Bulgarian song,  followed by an extract from the Sonnanbula by Vincenzo Bellini. The performance will conclude with another traditional  song, this time from Oaxaca, Mexico. Let me now invite the performers to present their musical interlude.  (Musical interlude)
26. The President:   What an end to our meeting! Could we show our appreciation once again, colleagues? (Applause) When we say  UNESCO turned 70, the fact that we have our staff members, also exercising their talent, unlike some of us, particularly  my good self, then you know that the Organization has matured. And one of them, by the way, is the head of our security.  He was there, not only taking care of our security but also letting us enjoy the pleasure of listening to music. What an  Organization! Before I declare the meeting closed, colleagues and friends, allow me to say bon voyage, buen viaje, riḥlah  saʿīdah, shchastlivovo puti, Yīlù píng’ān. On that note, my dear friends, I now declare closed the 38th session of the  General Conference of UNESCO, and God bless.  The meeting rose at 5.25 p.m.  La séance est levée à 17 h 25  Se levanta la sesión a las 17.25  Заседание закрывается в 17.25  الظهر بعد ٥,٢٥اسلسة يف الساعة  رفعت   会议于 17 时 25 分结束