1.1  The President:   Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. I declare open the fourth plenary meeting of the General Conference.  Distinguished delegates, many of you have travelled from afar to attend this august body, but very few have travelled  farther than our esteemed guest this afternoon. It is my honour and special privilege to welcome His Excellency Mr Henry  Puna, Prime Minister of the Cook Islands. Although not a member of the United Nations, the Cook Islands has been a  proud Member State of UNESCO for 25 years.
1.2 His Excellency is a lawyer by training, educated in the Cook Islands, New Zealand and Australia. After a  successful career in law he entered politics, winning a parliamentary election a decade ago. Under Mr Puna’s leadership,  the Cook Islands Party won a landslide election in 2010 and he subsequently became the country’s Prime Minister. It  was under his premiership that the Cook Islands became a founding member of the Polynesian Leaders Group, bringing  together eight countries of the region to cooperate in the fields of education, culture, environmental conservation and  climate change adaptation. Your Excellency, we are honoured to have you here with us, and are looking forward to your  speech. The floor is now yours, Sir.
2.1  Mr Puna (Prime Minister of the Cook Islands):   Mr President, thank you for those very kind words. Excellencies, Ministers, members of the diplomatic corps,  distinguished representatives, youth leaders, ladies and gentlemen, I bid you good afternoon and kia orana. I also take  this opportunity to congratulate UNESCO on celebrating its 70th anniversary. It is indeed an auspicious milestone and  reminds the world of just how long the message and mission of UNESCO has been with us; yet, sadly, at times we  struggle as a global community to live up to it.
2.2 This year my country celebrated its 50th anniversary of self-governance in free association with New Zealand.  We have taken the time to reflect on where we have come from and acknowledge the opportunities we will have and the  challenges we will face in the next 50 years. Our national vision is for a society where all live with dignity, enjoy their  human rights, achieve their full potential and contribute to the development and wellbeing of society. This vision  describes the attributes of and opportunities for our people because, spread over 15 small islands and atolls and more  than two million square kilometres of ocean, they are at the centre of our development.
2.3 When we consulted with our communities on what they wanted for the Cook Islands in the next 50 years, a  group of students at one of our secondary schools came out very clearly, saying that they wanted a Cook Islands that  they could be proud of. As they will be the leaders in 50 years’ time, it is our responsibility to make sure that our focus  remains grounded on our people, their families and their communities. By promoting social investment, we enable our  people to fulfil their potential, prosper and participate in the social, economic, political and cultural life of our nation and  when today’s young people take the lead, they will be able to do so in a country that they can be proud of.
2.4 With that in mind, this question needs to be asked: how can the Cook Islands contribute to the UNESCO agenda  and how can the programmes and initiatives of UNESCO support our development pathway? Our culture and identity are  the foundations of our country. We have thousands of years of knowledge and practice that have led us to be the people  and the country that we are today; this cannot be lost. The work of UNESCO on intangible cultural heritage, education for  sustainable development, the Memory of the World Programme and work to support archival practices in the Pacific, all  support this. But we must go further. The Cook Islands commits to working in the next year to ratify at least one  additional cultural convention. Why has this not had priority in the past? Possibly because, until the more recent  conventions on intangible cultural heritage and cultural diversity, we did not necessarily see our cultural heritage  reflected in the older conventions. Our cultural heritage is not buildings and monuments, our cultural heritage is centuries  of calendars for fishing and planting, traditional navigation, using our ocean and environment to predict and signal our  weather patterns, drum beats and dance steps. These are the things that have made our country what it is and are still  all in use today. We must find a way to see these aspects of knowledge and practice recognized within the tools of  UNESCO so that we see them validated when we ratify such conventions.
2.5  We have high levels of access and participation in education from early childhood to senior secondary level, but  ensuring that education is of high quality and relevant to the lives of young people creates challenges in our country. The  ability to sustain a scope of curriculum programmes for small and often geographically isolated cohorts, and the ability to  meet the needs and interests of all students, requires new ways of thinking about resourcing and providing access to  education. To this end, my country is investing in the integration of information technology (IT) into our teaching  programmes and the use of real-time IT as a modality for delivery to isolated students. The cost of such infrastructure  and connectivity has a significant impact on the operating expenses of our schools but equity, rather than economies of  scale, informs our decision-making.
2.6 For our “at-risk” youth, ongoing engagement or reengagement with education and training, both formal and non- formal, helps to improve individual self-esteem and responsibility, supporting a more cohesive society. Currently we are  strengthening technical and vocational education and training (TVET) and skills development programmes, building  second-chance training opportunities and providing easily accessible pastoral care through counselling and careers  advisory services.
2.7 We know that the issue of supporting young people in a fast-changing twenty-first century is one that the whole  Pacific is dealing with. We also know that many of the UNESCO programme areas and the work of other United Nations  agencies have identified youth strategies. We humbly ask that such efforts have a greater level of explicit coordination  and collaboration so that countries can have more streamlined access to expertise and support in this area.
2.8 I take this opportunity to note the importance to our region of the UNESCO field office for Pacific States. We  recognize the financial constraints under which the Organization is working but request that such constraints do not  impact the ability of the UNESCO Office in Apia to support our countries in the implementation of the full scope of the  UNESCO agenda. While we fully acknowledge the work and support of Headquarters and regional offices, nothing can  replace the value added to our work by people working amongst us in the Pacific.
2.9 Within the Pacific region, we know each other very well. We understand the impact that the decision of one  country can have on the political and financial environment of its neighbours and the livelihoods of those in the region.  We work together for the betterment of our region while respecting the sovereignty and unique cultures and contributions  of our individual countries and peoples. To this end, the Cook Islands offers its full and strong support to the candidacy of  Samoa as a voice for the Pacific on the Executive Board of UNESCO.
2.10 As we commence work on the post-2015 agenda and respond to the challenges of the global Sustainable  Development Goals, the challenge for UNESCO will be to build such an understanding as that which we have in the  Pacific, across all countries so that, while we maintain our individual sovereignty, we respect each other and work  together to meet global goals in a way that is equitable, empowering and sustainable for the well-being of all and  particularly our next generation. We, the Cook Islands, are ready to play our part in meeting this challenge. Kia orana e  kia manuia. Thank you for your attention.
3.  The President:   Thank you very much, Your Excellency, for your very inspiring words. As I understand, black pearls from the  Cook Islands are known around the world, and you, Mr Henry Puna, have been personally involved in making pearl  farming one of your country’s leading export industries. The Cook Islands are providing the world with sea pearls, and  you have provided us all with pearls of wisdom this afternoon. Thank you again for your speech.   General policy debate (continued)  Débat de politique générale (suite)  Debate de política general (continuación)  Обсуждение вопросов общей политики (продолжение)  جتابع)مناقشة السياسة العامة    总政策辩论（续）
4. The President:   Ladies and gentlemen, we will now continue with national statements. In order to make our afternoon as efficient  as possible, we will need to continue the good practice of respecting the six-minute time limit. I wish to thank you in  advance for your understanding and cooperation in this regard. I now have the honour to call on our first speaker, His  Excellency, Ivica Dačić, the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Foreign Affairs of Serbia. Your Excellency, you have  the floor.
5.1 Mr Dačić (Serbia)     (address delivered in Serbian; English text provided by the delegation):   Mr President of the General Conference, Mr Chair of the Executive Board, Madam Director-General,  Excellencies, ladies and gentlemen. May I first of all congratulate you, Mr President, on your election and wish you every  success in the discharge of this important post. The Republic of Serbia truly believes in the noble mission of this  Organization, whose 70th anniversary we are observing this year. UNESCO’s role in the promotion of universal human  values through cooperation in the areas of culture, education, science, information and communications is more  important today than it has ever been before. In a world of growing global interdependence, a peaceful intercultural  dialogue and exchange are essential to safeguarding international peace and security, and towards achieving overall  social and economic progress. The Organization’s unique expertise makes UNESCO an important factor in the process  of seeking solutions to complex challenges facing mankind at this historical juncture.
5.2 Against the background of this responsible role of UNESCO on the international level, it is crucial to preserve in  these troubled and demanding times the Organization’s moral credibility. UNESCO should continue to adhere to its  original principles and goals. Politicization of its work is not in the interest of its mission, which is so vitally important to  mankind. Any abuse of UNESCO, being also part of the United Nations system, should not be allowed, especially in the  year marking its 70th anniversary. It is not for UNESCO to make political decisions regarding statehood. Moreover, it  should not be allowed to put UNESCO at the service of affirming the illegal and unilateral declaration of independence of  a part of the territory of a United Nations Member State, whose sovereignty and territorial integrity are guaranteed by a  valid and legally binding United Nations Security Council resolution. This, of course, refers to the application by the so-  called “Republic of Kosovo” for admission to UNESCO membership.
5.3 I will take this opportunity to recall once again that under United Nations Security Council resolution 1244,  Kosovo and Metohija constitutes a territory of the Republic of Serbia under the interim administration of the United  Nations, where the United Nations mission – UNMIK – continues to be active today. Therefore, it is not a state. All this  testifies to the fact that the application for admission by the so-called “Republic of Kosovo” is unprecedented in  UNESCO’s history thus far. By opposing this act, Serbia is defending international law, the United Nations Charter and
78  the United Nations Security Council as the supreme authority for safeguarding international peace and security. These  principles must be fully respected, for only in this way will the existing system of international relations, founded on the  United Nations Charter, be preserved, and the universal character of international law maintained.
5.4 The session of the UNESCO Executive Board held on 21 October showed not only all the controversial nature of  the issue at point but also a deep divide among the Member States. This is undoubtedly proven by the fact that the  absolute majority of 31 out of 58 members of this body did not effectively endorse the adoption of the recommendation.  In an Organization having as one of its main objectives the protection of the cultural heritage of mankind for generations  to come, we must not forget that 236 religious and cultural and historical monuments have been targeted in Kosovo and  Metohija since June 1999 – i.e. after the end of armed conflict – to date. Some 174 religious sites of the Serbian  Orthodox Church and 33 cultural and historical monuments were destroyed, more than 10,000 icons, ecclesiastical, art  and liturgical objects were stolen. Nearly 5,300 tombstones in 256 Serbian Orthodox cemeteries were destroyed or  damaged, and in more than 50 of them there is no entire monument. Still today, four gems of our spiritual and cultural  heritage: Decani Monastery, the Patriarchate of Pec, Gracanica and the Church of Our Lady of Ljevis, are inscribed on  the UNESCO List of World Heritage in Danger. For all these reasons we are deeply concerned about our cultural and  historical heritage in the Province, which is a pillar of our national, cultural and spiritual identity and a part of the precious  historical and civilizational heritage of modern Europe and the world.
5.5 In addition, I would like to point out that it is neither the intention nor the desire of Serbia to isolate or prevent  anyone from having access to the activities of UNESCO On the contrary. However, the fact is that Kosovo and Metohija  participates even now in numerous activities of the Organization, but in a status-neutral manner and in accordance with  United Nations Security Council resolution 1244, which shows best that the true intent of the applicants is solely political.
5.6 Ladies and gentlemen, Serbia is strongly committed to the dialogue with representatives of Pristina, conducted  under the auspices of the European Union, and being one of the few successful examples of peaceful conflict resolution  in the world today. Extremely important agreements have been reached in the framework of the dialogue in the interest  of improving the everyday living conditions of all inhabitants of Kosovo and Metohija. Our commitment to this process  reflects a strong resolve to actively contribute to the improvement of political and economic stability of the Western  Balkans, as well as to solving all outstanding open issues solely by political and diplomatic means. It is with this aim in  mind that the Republic of Serbia has demonstrated its constructiveness and willingness to find a compromise in the  dialogue. In this way, we have helped reach mutually acceptable solutions for many complex issues in a variety of  domains such as justice, energy and the telecommunications sectors, in the interest first and foremost of reconciliation  and a common future. Discussions on the property owned by the Serbian Orthodox Church, as well as on the status and  protection of Serbian cultural heritage in Kosovo and Metohija in the Brussels dialogue are yet to be on the agenda.
5.7 Taking this as a starting point, I appeal to you. Let us postpone the debate on this issue in UNESCO and let us  give dialogue a chance because it is the only way to achieve a mutually acceptable solution on this issue and thereby  avoid further divisions, politicization and confrontation within UNESCO. This approach is also in the spirit of the principles  on which the Organization was founded and, we believe, in the best interest of regional stability and cooperation. With  your support for the adjournment of the debate, we can reach a sustainable solution that will not be the result of  unilateralism and imposition, but of a constructive approach and dialogue. That is what we are asking for – a chance for  dialogue and agreement, rather than unilateralism. Thank you.
6. The President:   Thank you very much your Excellency. Our next speaker is His Excellency Dapong Ratanasuwan, Minister of  Education of Thailand. Your Excellency, you have the floor.
7.1 Mr Ratanasuwan (Thailand):   Mr President, Mr Chair of the Executive Board, Madam Director-General, Excellencies, ladies and gentlemen, I  wish to congratulate UNESCO for its great success over the past two years in promoting sustainable development and  accelerating reform initiatives in priority areas. This reflects the leadership of the Director-General and I commend her  achievements in managing the very challenging context of the Organization.
7.2 Thailand is now in the process of reform in many aspects. Education, of course, is one of them. The Thai  Government has continuously allocated over 20% of the national budget to education. But why is this current  Government putting such a high priority on educational reform, and why now, more than ever? We sincerely believe that  education is a key tool to achieving security, prosperity, sustainability and a resilient democracy. I would like to add that  this is in line with the original objective of UNESCO's founders. Indeed, it is evident that UNESCO has promoted  education as a key tool for building peace in the world during the past 70 years. I therefore trust that it will maintain its  role as a capacity-builder in delivering inclusive and equitable quality education and lifelong learning opportunities for all.
7.3 In this regard, I encourage UNESCO to implement the Education 2030 Agenda through concrete actions and  integrate education into other areas of its mandate. This should be education for a sustainable future that can help build  our ability to cope with borderless and interconnected challenges. This calls for extensive collaboration among  governments, international organizations, the public sector and the private sector. The Sustainable Development Goals  (SDGs) will be our guiding framework in going in that direction. To achieve the Goals, education has to be well integrated  with science, technology and innovation. We support UNESCO’s role in working with other agencies to solve global  issues such as climate change and water security, using a holistic approach.
7.4 Ladies and gentlemen, the Thai people regard His Majesty the King as an exemplary teacher. In fact, many  aspects of Thai education reform reflect His Majesty’s principles and philosophy. He has urged teachers to love and  dedicate themselves to their students, and to focus on developing their potential. Education must encourage and
79  promote ethics, mindfulness, thoughtfulness, and public benefit over self-interest. Students’ sense of team spirit,  harmony and giving should be encouraged.
7.5 In the Thai context, we have been following His Majesty’s sufficiency economy philosophy, which is very similar  to the concept of sustainable development. I am proud to say that His Majesty has been our model for growth and has  led by example in promoting education and the conservation of environment and culture. It is evident and internationally  recognized, since in 2006, United Nations Secretary-General Kofi Annan presented the United Nations’ first Human  Development Lifetime Achievement Award to His Majesty, King Bhumibol Adulyadej, and said that His Majesty had  reached out to the poorest and the most vulnerable people of Thailand and empowered them to take their lives in their  own hands.
7.6 This is why Thailand has been focusing on empowering local people. We therefore fully support UNESCO’s  effort in promoting social transformations and intercultural dialogue in order to eradicate poverty, prevent violence, and  promote social inclusion and sustainable peace. When the people engage themselves in development, they will be able  to improve their livelihoods and maintain pride in their natural and cultural heritage. On behalf of the Thai Government, I  would like to thank UNESCO for its tireless efforts in all priority areas. We certainly continue to keep our commitment to  work with UNESCO and the global community, for a better today and tomorrow. Thank you for your attention.   Ms Lomonoco (Italy) takes the Chair
8. The President:   Thank you very much, Your Excellency. Now I have the pleasure to introduce as the next speaker Her  Excellency, the Honourable Ms Freda Belinda Adeline Tuki, Minister of Women, Youth, Children and Family Affairs of the  Solomon Islands. Thank you.
9.1 Ms Tuki (Solomon Islands):   Madam President, Madam Director-General, distinguished delegates, ladies and gentlemen, let me begin by  saying that it is indeed a privilege for me and the members of my delegation to be representing our country, the Solomon  Islands, at the 38th session of the General Conference of UNESCO. It is an honour for me in particular to make a few  remarks on this wonderful occasion, in front of such esteemed dignitaries who have gathered at this Conference.
9.2 Madam President, I wish to extend greetings to you as President of the General Conference of UNESCO from  the Government and people of the Solomon Islands. I would also like to express my Government’s acknowledgement  with thanks to UNESCO for its continued support in our education reform programmes, particularly early childhood care  and education, basic education and professional development for teachers, together with disaster preparedness  initiatives for schools, which aim to improve our systems so that they can respond to the impact of natural disasters such  as cyclones.
9.3 The Solomon Islands applauds UNESCO and other United Nations agencies for having the vision to develop a  new global education agenda, the Education 2030 Agenda, which is fully outlined in Sustainable Development Goal 4  and its corresponding targets, which aim to ensure inclusive and equitable quality education and promote lifelong  learning opportunities for all. This is a challenging goal indeed for a small island developing State such as the Solomon  Islands. This new Agenda is holistic, ambitious and aspirational and resonates well with my country’s dream to educate  every citizen in our country. Madam President, we will strive to make a difference in our young people’s education so that  they can realize their full potential and be better prepared for the challenges ahead. Education is undoubtedly the best  tool for change and progress and the main driver of development for achieving the Sustainable Development Goals  (SDGs), hence my country’s commitment to investing more in education in the coming years.
9.4 Madam President, in this regard, I wish to inform you of the preparatory work that my Government, through the  Ministry of Education, has done to implement the SDGs, especially those relating to further development of education in  our country. The three broad goals of the education reform programme that my country is currently implementing are to  improve access to education at all levels of our education system, ensure quality of education in terms of teacher  effectiveness and better learning strategies for students, and better management of resources at the national, provincial,  education authority and school levels.
9.5 Since the Solomon Islands began a comprehensive education reform in 2004, our country has made educational  advances, particularly in terms of improved access to primary education, although progress was slower than we had  hoped. But the good news is that many school-age children are now attending primary and junior secondary schools.  The literacy and numeracy standards of our primary school pupils have also increased. However, we need to work hard  to improve access and quality, not only in early childcare and education but also in senior secondary education.
9.6 There is now a growing emphasis on the quality of education, in my country especially, to improve teaching and  learning processes so that our students can acquire the essential knowledge, skills and attitudes that they require to earn  a living and contribute to the country’s social and economic development. In order to strengthen our education reform  initiatives, our Ministry has recently made progress on the development of our new strategic framework for education,  which will take our country through to 2030, and of our five-year medium-term national and provincial education action  plans. These plans will align with SDG 4 to guide the development of education.
9.7 Madam President, although we have made moderate progress in our efforts to improve the quality of education  and learning opportunities for our children and young people, my country still needs to work hard to implement the  programmes and activities of UNESCO’s sectoral mandates, such as developing a participatory approach that can  enable us to integrate traditional and scientific knowledge into the management of the impact of climate change and  natural hazards. Thank you, Madam President.
10. The President: Thank you very much, Your Excellency. I now have the honour to give the floor to His  Excellency, Mr Paul Rabary Andrianirina, Minister of National Education of Madagascar. Thank you.
11.1 M. Rabary (Madagascar) :    Madame la Présidente de la Conférence générale, Monsieur le Président du Conseil exécutif, Madame la  Directrice générale, Excellences, Mesdames et Messieurs. Au nom de la République de Madagascar, permettez-moi tout  d’abord de féliciter M. Simataa, Président de la 38ème session de la Conférence générale, pour sa brillante élection.  Nous lui souhaitons plein succès pour son mandat. Nous rendons également hommage au leadership et aux importantes  actions de son prédécesseur, S. E. M. Hao Ping.
11.2 Madame la Présidente, cette 38e session de la Conférence générale est marquée par la célébration du
70e anniversaire de notre Organisation. Durant toutes ces années, l’UNESCO s’est efforcée de relever les grands défis  de notre siècle en s’attachant, en tout premier lieu, à promouvoir la paix dans le monde. Les nouveaux objectifs de  développement durable adoptés par les Nations Unies confirment l’importance des idéaux de l’UNESCO, qui doivent  s’imposer face aux enjeux du développement durable, notamment l’éradication de la pauvreté, l’accès à une éducation  de qualité pour tous et la préservation du patrimoine culturel et naturel.
11.3 Madame la Présidente, l’éducation est le meilleur moyen pour réaliser les Objectifs de développement durable  (ODD). Pour le Gouvernement de Madagascar, l’éducation pour tous et de qualité constitue la priorité des priorités. Le  Président de la République malgache, S. E. M. Hery Rajaonarimampianina, a réitéré cette conviction lors de la 70e  Assemblée générale des Nations Unies. Madagascar développe actuellement des programmes et des stratégies afin  d’assurer une éducation répondant aux normes de qualité, et souhaite la poursuite du Programme de renforcement des  capacités en faveur de l'EPT (CapEPT). Madagascar s’attèle à une réforme du curriculum, en mettant en avant la  sauvegarde du patrimoine et les nouvelles technologies de la communication et de l’information, afin d’améliorer  l’apprentissage et les acquis des élèves. Madagascar loue les efforts faits par l’UNESCO dans le cadre de la priorité  Afrique concernant le projet d’Histoire générale de l’Afrique et tiendra compte de ce projet dans les réformes de ses  programmes scolaires.
11.4 Suite à l’adoption du Cadre d’action Éducation 2030, Madagascar demande des soutiens techniques et  financiers pour ses programmes en faveur de l’éducation des enfants déscolarisés et de l’éducation des jeunes filles.  Notre objectif, en effet, est de promouvoir une éducation équitable, inclusive et de qualité et un apprentissage tout au  long de la vie.
11.5 Madame la Présidente, la culture constitue un des leviers du développement durable. L’une des priorités de  Madagascar est de faire de ses valeurs identitaires des vecteurs et des moteurs de relance économique. Pour y parvenir,  Madagascar a besoin de renforcement des capacités et d’une importante assistance technique pour développer ses  industries créatives.
11.6 Enfin, Madagascar tient à féliciter la Directrice générale pour l’initiative et le succès planétaire de la campagne  Unite4Heritage. Nous saisissons cette occasion pour condamner fermement tous les actes de destruction des sites et  monuments historiques, inscrits ou non sur la Liste du patrimoine mondial. Conformément à son programme national de  développement, Madagascar tient à souligner sa volonté de protéger sa biodiversité, qui constitue l’un des derniers  sanctuaires de la diversité biologique de la planète. Disposant de ce potentiel exceptionnel, Madagascar développe  résolument le tourisme culturel et durable et soutient la Commission océanographique intergouvernementale (COI) et  son Système d’alerte aux tsunamis et de mitigation dans l'océan Indien. Tout en remerciant l’UNESCO pour le projet  d’École solaire, Madagascar encourage le Secrétariat à renforcer le programme sur les énergies alternatives et  renouvelables, et c’est dans ce cadre que nous soutenons les efforts de protection de la biodiversité à la veille de  l’ouverture, à Paris, de la Conférence mondiale sur le climat.
11.7 Nous souhaitons aussi que le Secrétariat alloue plus de moyens aux programmes pour la jeunesse, pour  l’éducation physique et sportive et pour l’éducation à la paix. A cet égard, Madagascar soutient la création de l’institut de  catégorie 2, École de la paix, en Côte d’Ivoire. En tant que membre du Conseil intergouvernemental du Programme  international pour le développement de la communication (PIDC), Madagascar renouvelle son appui à ce programme,  qui a un impact positif sur les populations les plus démunies. Nous soutenons également le Programme Information pour  tous (PIPT), indispensable à la mise en place de sociétés équitables et inclusives, et demandons au Secrétariat de  renforcer le Secteur de la communication et de l’information en le dotant des moyens nécessaires à ses ambitions.  Excellences, Mesdames et Messieurs, je vous remercie de votre aimable attention.
12. La Présidente :   C’est nous qui vous remercions, Excellence, pour votre intéressante intervention. Le prochain   orateur est le Ministre des sciences, de la recherche et des technologies de la République islamique d’Iran,  S.E.M. Mohammad Farhadi.
13.1 Mr Farhadi (Islamic Republic of Iran):   I extend to His Excellency, Mr Stanley Simataa, sincere congratulations on his election as President of the 38th  session of the General Conference. I wish him the best in his important task. Madam President, Mr Chair of the  Executive Board, Madam Director-General, Excellencies, ladies and gentlemen, I am honoured to congratulate you on  the occasion of the 70th anniversary of UNESCO. From its inception, UNESCO has been a place in which to expand  cooperation among cultures and faiths, and this policy has brought many valuable gifts to humanity. Seventy years after  UNESCO’s foundation, we have a good opportunity to look at the past with wisdom in order to envision the future and the  force and importance of this great unique Organization. This House is here, among many other tasks, to promote cultural  diversity. Therefore, allow me to continue my speech in my mother tongue, Persian.
81  (The speaker continued in Persian; text in English provided by the delegation)
13.2 UNESCO was born in the hope of becoming the pioneer in opposing ignorance, violence, intolerance and war.  Today more than ever, the world cries for peace, moderation, prudence, and genuine dialogue for the sacred sake of  justice, equality of educational opportunity, sustainable development and the culture of peace. Today, the world needs to  confront the negative phenomena of extremism and violence. The Islamic Republic of Iran expresses its deep concern  over the loss of human life and the displacement of peoples, as well as the widespread, unprecedented destruction of  cultural heritage in countries in West Asia and Africa with the intention of cultural cleansing through violence and  extremism. Terrorism is now also financed by the sale of artefacts. We support UNESCO’s efforts in assisting the  concerned governments to protect their cultural heritage and proclaim our readiness to collaborate, in the spirit of the rich  concept of the protection and promotion of cultural diversity in this House.
13.3  Adolescents and children are among the most vulnerable members of society. In this context of conflict and the  destruction of heritage sites, some computer games propagate hatred and psychologically prepare children for violent  behaviour. I propose that UNESCO launch a worldwide campaign in the framework of the “#Unite4Heritage” campaign to  create and disseminate free virtual games promoting love of cultural heritage with different educational tools.
13.4 Excellencies, social and human sciences are also a field which is entrusted to UNESCO. Iran is proud that it has  proposed and sponsored the Avicenna Prize for Ethics in Science, approved during the 32nd session of the General  Conference, a unique initiative which highlights the critical importance of ethics in our fast-moving and technologically  enamored world. Ethics in science and values education go hand-in-hand in building a resilient and sustainable world.  The ethical aspects of scientific and technological development, especially in the field of cyberspace, have increasing  importance as far as international protocols are concerned. Allow me to add that tonight the Avicenna Prize will be  presented to the current laureate, Professor Shinwari of Pakistan.
13.5 Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, we honour the efforts made to achieve Education for All (EFA), for  which many of the goals have been attained. We have also done our utmost in this regard. We hope that through  collaboration we can strive to attain the goals of the global education agenda, Education 2030, especially the free  exchange of information without discrimination. For this purpose, it is necessary that UNESCO support policies aimed at  preventing scientific discrimination in education and access to the most advanced sciences, and enable the countries of  the South to access educational and scientific resources, through which they can reach higher levels of science and  technology in the framework of South-South and South-South-North cooperation and thus achieve the right to education.  My Government strongly supports the development of a global convention for the recognition of higher education  qualifications and believes it to be a positive step towards reducing the scientific gap between North and South,  facilitating South-South-North cooperation and enabling the circulation of elites and the intellectual capital of developing  countries.
13.6 Excellencies, ladies and gentlemen, global climate and environmental changes have pronounced effects,  especially in regions like West Asia which are facing a severe shortage of water resources. In addition to extensive  consequences to the technical and economic infrastructure of the countries of the region, they have a social and cultural  impact. We believe that regional and international cooperation for conservation management and optimal use of joint  water resources in arid and semi-arid regions is essential. Supporting transboundary biosphere reserves in cooperation  with UNESCO can help achieve these goals. I urge UNESCO to design and follow up studies for the three axes of  environmental sustainability, justice in energy, and worldwide cultural development and research by 2050. In order to  achieve the 2014-2024 objective entitled “Energy for All”, UNESCO should support training in development, production  and use of all renewable energies, especially in rural areas. In this regard, we propose and donate the creation of a  UNESCO prize for renewable energy, which would be tangible and moral support for the development and use of these  resources in developing countries.
13.7 The post-2015 development agenda emphasizes low-cost Internet access for all in the least developed countries  by 2020. My country also supports UNESCO’s actions to improve access of people with disabilities to information and  communication technologies (ICTs). In view of its mandate, UNESCO is requested to offer applicable guidelines to meet  the ethical and social challenges introduced by ICTs, such as the lack of respect for privacy and the growth of extremism  on the Internet and through ICTs, which have unfortunately in recent years been used by extremists to promote hatred  and violence and even to recruit people to terrorist operations. We also highlight the necessity of promoting linguistic  diversity in cyberspace in order to enable multilingual content use, and promote free access to scientific information  resources.
13.8 Considering the importance attached by UNESCO to social inclusion with emphasis on youth and women, and  especially women with special needs, we wish to emphasize the importance of their empowerment, with a special focus  on women’s vocational education. We declare our readiness to cooperate with UNESCO and its partners to achieve this  objective. The active presence of the UNESCO Office in Tehran, which I really admire, can particularly enhance this  cooperation in the region.
13.9 Madam Director-General, I admire your efforts to promote UNESCO’s ideals in the United Nations Post-2015  Development Agenda, ideals which are all found in UNESCO’s DNA, the beautiful term you used in your speech  yesterday. I would like to take this opportunity to recall the proposed intitiative of President Rouhani of the Islamic  Republic of Iran approved during the 68th session of the United Nations General Assembly in 2013, namely a “World  against Violence and Extremism (WAVE)”. It is in UNESCO’s DNA, I believe. He will participate in the Leaders’ Forum on
16 November to further focus on that initiative. Thank you for your attention.
14. The President:   Thank you very much, Your Excellency. Our next speaker on my list is His Excellency, Mr Torbjørn Røe Isaksen,  Minister of Education and Research of Norway. You have the floor, Excellency.
15.1 Mr Isaksen (Norway):   Madam President, Madam Director-General, colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, considerable progress has been  made in the world in the last few decades. Never before have so many people enjoyed such high standards of living or  benefited from so much cooperation. At the same time, the past few years have taught us that we cannot simply assume  that progress will continue and this only serves to underline the need for a well-functioning United Nations.
15.2 There are dark clouds on the horizon. Not since the Second World War have so many people been forced to flee  from their countries and from their homes. We have all been witnesses to the horrible destruction of cultural treasures  that belong to us all. Norway commends UNESCO’s work in putting this high on the international agenda including in the  United Nations Security Council. Norway also strongly supports the campaign “#Unite4Heritage”.
15.3 We need the United Nations as never before. To succeed, the United Nations needs to adapt to a world that is  facing new challenges. And UNESCO, like other members of the United Nations family, has to undergo a continuous  process of reform if it is to retain its relevance in a rapidly changing world. Member States should give strategic direction  to these reforms and hold the Secretariat accountable for conducting its work in a transparent and efficient manner. At  the same time, we wish to avoid time-consuming micro-management and ensure that the UNESCO Secretariat gets  sufficient space and financial resources to carry out its duties and achieve the expected results.
15.4 Ladies and gentlemen, Norway puts education first. We are in the process of doubling Norway’s development  assistance for education. In particular, we want to strengthen girls’ education, the quality of learning, vocational and  technical training, and education in emergencies and protracted crises. The provision of education is, of course, a  national responsibility. Mobilization of domestic resources is key. However, official development assistance (ODA)  remains a necessary addition, particularly in the least developed and most fragile countries.
15.5 The Oslo Summit on Education for Development resulted in the creation of a high-level International  Commission on Financing Global Education Opportunity. The commission has been welcomed by the United Nations  Secretary-General, who has also stated that he will act on its recommendations. It is an urgent challenge to reach the  growing number of children and adolescents who are out of school in countries affected by emergencies and protracted  crises. Additional resources must be mobilized for this purpose, both as part of humanitarian responses and in terms of  longer-term investments in resilient education systems. Furthermore, we need to do what we can to protect education  from attacks. At the end of May, Norway hosted the Oslo Conference on Safe Schools. The main objective was for  countries to sign the “Safe Schools Declaration”, including the guidelines for protecting schools and universities from  military weapons in conflicts. As we speak, 49 States have endorsed the Declaration, and we are hoping for many more.
15.6 Ladies and gentlemen, let me mention another, but not entirely different, challenge related to education. We live  in an era where people are on the move, either forced or voluntarily. I am confident that it will benefit individuals, students,  academics and not least countries if we develop a global instrument for just, fair and transparent recognition of  qualifications, making use of people’s resources and competencies. The development of a global convention for  recognition of higher education qualifications responds to this need and Norway strongly supports this initiative.
15.7 The 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development is ambitious, comprehensive and universal and it will be our  navigational star for the next 15 years, including here at UNESCO. As a coastal State investing heavily in research on  how the oceans influence our climate and environment, we are pleased as well for the role given to the  Intergovernmental Oceanographic Commission (IOC) in the 2030 Agenda and within UNESCO. It is a recognition of the  global trust in IOC and confidence in its ability to deliver.
15.8 UNESCO also has a vital role in promoting access to information and press freedom. We will continue to  prioritize the work on the United Nations Plan of Action on the Safety of Journalists and the Issue of Impunity. In  September this year, world leaders adopted the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), which include a commitment to  public access to information. SDG target 16.10 states plainly that all countries pledge to “ensure public access to  information and protect fundamental freedoms, in accordance with national legislation and international agreements”.  This new commitment has potentially transformative implications for the free flow of information and independent media  development worldwide. Thank you.
(17.1) M. Al-Waz (République arabe syrienne) (traduit de l’arabe) :   Monsieur le Président du Conseil exécutif, Madame la Présidente de la Conférence générale, Madame la Directrice  générale, Excellences, la délégation de mon pays, la République arabe syrienne, et moi-même avons le plaisir de saluer le  soixante-dixième anniversaire de la création de notre vénérable Organisation, de participer aux travaux de la 38e session de la  Conférence générale et de vous apporter, à vous et au monde entier, les salutations de notre peuple, dont les racines  plongent dans une terre qui a contribué à l’édification de la civilisation humaine et a tracé les lignes de l’histoire de l’humanité.  Nous entamons la cinquième année de lutte de notre peuple contre le terrorisme et l’extrémisme violent, avec sa pensée  « takfiri » et sa criminalité organisée aux mains de groupes terroristes armés, tels Da‘ech, Jabhat al-Noṣra et d’autres bandes  armées et excroissances d’al-Qa‘eda visant à renverser le modèle de notre État et à confisquer son pouvoir de décision  politique souverain et résistant. Dès le début, la volonté politique suprême de mon pays a bien mesuré l’étendue de la guerre  d’oppression contre notre peuple, et le Gouvernement syrien a répondu aux demandes sociales équitables en déclarant sa  résistance et son combat contre le terrorisme.
(17.2) Mesdames, Messieurs, la crise actuelle a imposé au Gouvernement et au peuple syriens de faire du combat contre  le terrorisme une priorité ; des plans gouvernementaux ont été adoptés sous le mot d’ordre « repousser la crise » afin d’éviter  ses conséquences sur les hommes et la patrie. Les institutions du secteur public, de la vie associative et du secteur privé ont  travaillé main dans la main en utilisant les ressources disponibles pour faire en sorte que le processus de développement se  poursuive, que les capacités soient maintenues et que les effets économiques et sociaux de la migration interne et de  l’émigration, qui frappent les jeunes en particulier, soient pris en charge. Ainsi, 10,39% du budget national pour 2016 ont été  consacrés à la fourniture du matériel nécessaire à l’éducation des étudiants en général, notamment les Syriens déplacés à  l’intérieur de leur propre pays et les personnes n’ayant plus de toit du fait du terrorisme. Le Gouvernement a continué de  formuler des stratégies nationales visant à développer l’éducation dans le cadre de plans pour un développement social global,  afin d’enrayer la crise et les dommages catastrophiques que les bandes terroristes armées ont infligés au secteur de  l’éducation en termes tant humains que matériels. Pour l’année scolaire en cours, 4 250 000 élèves au total – garçons et filles  – sont scolarisés dans 17 486 établissements.
(17.3) Mesdames, Messieurs, les diverses formes de coopération entre le Gouvernment de mon pays et notre vénérable  Organisation ont reçu une impulsion particulière pendant la crise en cours, ce qui démontre tout le sérieux de l’engagement  réciproque visant à préserver la coopération historique entre l’UNESCO et la République arabe syrienne, qui fête en 2016 le
70e anniversaire de son adhésion à l’Organisation. De cette tribune, nous exprimons toute notre gratitude pour les positions  objectives de Mme Irina Bokova et de l’UNESCO vis-à-vis de l’opinion mondiale, cherchant à mobiliser les efforts afin de  protéger le patrimoine culturel syrien matériel et immatériel de la criminalité terroriste et de ses tentatives d’oblitérer l’histoire  et l’identité de la civilisation en Syrie. Nous déclarons que la République arabe syrienne, qui défend de toutes ses forces  nationales officielles et populaires le patrimoine culturel, historique et religieux et qui s’oppose au trafic illégal des richesses et
84  des biens culturels, joint ses efforts à ceux de l’UNESCO et des pays amis dans le cadre de la campagne  « #UnisPourLePatrimoine ». Elle s’engage également à respecter pleinement les conventions de l’UNESCO en la matière, et  nous proclamons notre détermination à promouvoir les valeurs de l’Organisation en élevant dans l’esprit des hommes les  défenses de la paix, à soutenir ces valeurs en renforçant leur rôle et en les immunisant contre les crises qui entravent leurs  progrès. Nous soutenons les choix programmatiques consistant à réaliser le développement durable dès 2030 et le plan  d’action pour l’éducation qui en découle, dans lequel nous voyons une base pour la poursuite de la réforme administrative.  Nous soutenons également la politique des ressources humaines et la programmation axée sur le budget, la Priorité Afrique,  l’égalité des sexes, l’Initiative mondiale pour l'éducation avant tout, l’Éducation pour tous (EPT), l’apprentissage tout au long  de la vie, une éducation et une formation des enseignants de qualité, l’éducation des filles et de la petite enfance, en plus de  la priorité à accorder aux problématiques des sciences sociales et humaines et aux programmes sur la jeunesse, l’information,  la technologie, les sciences naturelles, l’environnement et les ressources en eau.
(17.4) Mesdames, Messieurs, dans un monde où nous nous efforçons d’atteindre les objectifs de la Décennie  internationale du rapprochement des cultures , de combattre la pauvreté, de résister à l’extrémisme violent et aux exactions  terroristes, nous affirmons notre soutien total aux contributions de l’Organisation en tant que pilier essentiel à la réalisation de  la paix et de la sécurité internationales et au rejet des actes terroristes basés sur la discrimination religieuse et raciale, de  l’exclusion, du trafic des êtres humains, de la destruction des civilisations, de la violation de la souveraineté des peuples et de  leur droit à l’autodétermination. Nous réaffirmons les résolutions et décisions de l’UNESCO relatives à Jérusalem et aux  territoires arabes occupés, notamment le Golan syrien occupé. Nous récusons la violation systématique de l’enceinte de la  Mosquée al-Aqṣa, la judaïsation de Jérusalem, les tentatives quotidiennes des autorités d’occupation de détruire les atouts et  le patrimoine de notre peuple au Golan syrien occupé, de saboter son tissu social et ses institutions éducatives et culturelles,  et d’abolir son rôle dans la préservation de l’identité nationale et historique.
(17.5) Mesdames, Messieurs, au seuil d’un nouvel ordre mondial, nous appelons de nos vœux la paix, la justice, le respect  mutuel, la souveraineté des peuples, la préservation de leurs atouts et de leur civilisation. Nous soutenons les causes justes  du Groupe des 77 et de la Chine, du Mouvement des pays non alignés et du groupe de pays « BRICS », ainsi que les efforts  déployés par notre vénérable Organisation en vue d’un monde plus humain. Je vous remercie de votre écoute.
18. The President:    The next speaker is His Excellency, Mr Shamsiddin Orumbekzoda, Minister of Culture of Tajikistan.
(19.1) M. Orumbekzoda (Tadjikistan) (traduit du russe) :   Mes chers collègues, mesdames et messieurs. Au nom de la délégation du Tadjikistan, permettez-moi avant tout de  vous souhaiter une belle célébration du 70e anniversaire de l’UNESCO ainsi qu’une session fructueuse de la Conférence  générale. Je voudrais également remercier la Directrice générale, S. E. Mme Irina Bokova, pour son engagement personnel et  sincère en faveur du renforcement des liens entre les États membres de l’UNESCO.
(19.2) Comme les précédents orateurs l’ont fait remarquer, l’UNESCO a accompli un travail considérable et d’une valeur  indéniable au cours de ses 70 ans d’existence, en promouvant les idées de paix, de solidarité, de tolérance et de dialogue  interculturel à travers le développement de l’éducation, de la science et de la culture. En jetant un regard sur le passé, on constate  que l’UNESCO a été extrêmement productive et efficace depuis sa création. Mais aujourd’hui, la communauté mondiale se  confronte à des défis et des dangers nouveaux et accrus : le terrorisme international, le radicalisme religieux, le vandalisme, qui  font rapidement germer l’antagonisme, l’intolérance et la violence dans l’esprit des jeunes générations. Nous sommes tous  témoins des terribles événements survenus dernièrement dans les pays du Proche-Orient, qui sont le théâtre de violences  extrêmes, d’une tragédie humaine et de la destruction barbare de monuments historiques qui appartiennent au patrimoine culturel  mondial. Dans le contexte actuel, à la lumière de ces défis et dangers nouveaux, le rôle de l’UNESCO en tant que force de  consolidation de la coopération entre États membres visant à prévenir et empêcher ces phénomènes à l’avenir est plus important  que jamais.
(19.3) La République du Tadjikistan, avec à sa tête le Président, S. E. M. Emomali Rahmon, accorde depuis les premiers jours  de son indépendance une importance particulière à la coopération avec l’UNESCO. Ces 20 dernières années, dans le cadre de la  collaboration avec les unités de l’Organisation au Tadjikistan, de nombreux programmes et projets ont été mis en œuvre,  apportant une contribution majeure au développement de l’éducation, de la science et de la conservation du patrimoine culturel  matériel et immatériel dans le pays. Le Tadjikistan entend désormais maintenir le cap de l’intensification de la coopération avec  l’UNESCO et du renforcement du rôle de l’Organisation aux niveaux national et mondial. Il ne fait aucun doute que les honorables  intentions et les nobles objectifs de l’UNESCO sont réalisables, en s’attachant en premier lieu à améliorer la qualité de l’éducation  et à dispenser une éducation à la paix aux jeunes générations, comme de nombreux intervenants l’ont souligné ici même. Le  Gouvernement de la République du Tadjikistan considère le développement de l’éducation, de la culture et de la science au  niveau national comme l’une des missions prioritaires de l’État, et prend par conséquent des mesures concrètes en ce sens.
(19.4) Il convient de noter que le financement par des fonds publics de l’éducation, de la culture et de la science a été multiplié  par 12 à 15 fois au cours des dix dernières années. Cette évolution favorable sera maintenue dans les années à venir.
(19.5) Il faut en outre signaler que le Tadjikistan, en collaboration étroite avec l’UNESCO, a mis en œuvre avec efficacité de  nombreux programmes et projets dans les domaines de l’éducation, de la culture et de la science. Ces dernières années, dans le  cadre de la réalisation à l’échelon national des objectifs du programme Éducation pour tous, un grand nombre de séminaires,  conférences, tables rondes, émissions télévisées, cours ouverts et formations ont été organisés, des programmes  d’apprentissage accéléré ont été élaborés, etc. Parmi les principales réalisations obtenues dans le cadre de la mise en œuvre de  l’EPT, figurent l’élaboration et l’adoption, entre 2011 et 2015, du concept d’apprentissage inclusif pour les enfants handicapés,  ainsi que la stratégie nationale pour le développement de l’éducation en République du Tadjikistan jusqu’à 2020.
(19.6) Je voudrais profiter de cette occasion pour appeler l’attention des participants à la Conférence sur les questions  cruciales et d’actualité de la protection de l’environnement, du changement climatique, de la gestion des ressources en eau et de  l’accès à l’eau potable. Une conférence internationale de haut niveau sur les résultats de la mise en œuvre des objectifs de la  Décennie internationale d’action « L’eau, source de vie » (2005-2015) s’est tenue en juin dernier dans la capitale tadjike,  Douchanbé, pour dresser le bilan de la Décennie. On peut affirmer avec certitude que celle-ci s’est inscrite de façon logique et  harmonieuse dans la réalisation des objectifs du Millénaire pour le développement, et qu’elle a contribué à les atteindre.  Cependant, les défis et les dangers mondiaux actuels, notamment la crise financière et économique, la croissance  démographique, le changement climatique, la fréquence accrue des phénomènes hydrométéorologiques extrêmes, la pénurie  d’eau, et, par conséquent, le niveau croissant de pauvreté, l’intensification des processus migratoires, l’augmentation des
86  maladies infectieuses et de la mortalité infantile et maternelle, nécessitent encore que nous mobilisions nos efforts et que nous  prenions les mesures qui s’imposent dans ces domaines. À cet égard, le président de la République du Tadjikistan a présenté  une initiative concernant le lancement d’une nouvelle décennie sur le thème « L’eau pour le développement durable », laquelle  correspond pleinement aux tendances mondiales de la définition de nos actions futures pour l’après-2015 qui, d’après nous, doit  accorder une place essentielle aux ressources en eau.
(19.7) Nous remercions le Comité du patrimoine mondial et le Comité intergouvernemental de sauvegarde du patrimoine  culturel immatériel de l’UNESCO pour le soutien sans réserve apporté à la sauvegarde du patrimoine culturel matériel et  immatériel du Tadjikistan. Depuis les premiers jours de l’indépendance, les questions de la préservation des traditions culturelles  pluriséculaires font partie des priorités du pays. Au niveau national, cela a débouché sur une politique culturelle efficace et ciblée,  en grande partie conforme aux dispositions et aux exigences de la Convention pour la protection du patrimoine mondial, culturel  et naturel de l’UNESCO.
(19.8) Je voudrais conclure ma brève intervention en citant un grand sage, le père de la littérature tadjike, persane et dorienne  Abuabdullo Rudaki : « Il n’y a pas de plus grande joie au monde que celle d’être auprès de ses proches amis ». Merci de votre  attention.
20. The President:    Our next speaker on the list is Her Excellency, Honourable Ms Nimisha Jayant Madhvani, Ambassador  Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of Uganda.
21.1 Ms Madhvani (Uganda):   Thank you Madam President. I am currently the Ambassador of Uganda to UNESCO. The Minister sends her  greetings to the Director-General and conveys her apologies. Owing to the elections she is unable to be here but her  heart is very much in two places. It is my pleasure on behalf of my delegation to congratulate Mr Stanley Mutumba  Simataa on his election as President of the 38th session of the General Conference of UNESCO. I trust that, guided by  the African spirit of ubuntu, he will steer this session to achieve, amicably, as is the tradition of UNESCO, consensus on  matters before it. We salute the Director-General for her very detailed achievements for our Organization since our last  meeting. We also thank the team she worked with in the Secretariat, the Executive Board and indeed the Member States  for supporting her in moving UNESCO forward. Uganda further extends its congratulations to the Chair of the Executive  Board for his leadership.
21.2 The challenges facing our Organization have been with us for some years now. In spite of them, we still expect  the Director-General to deliver more and better services. In this session we must support the efforts of the Director- General by providing adequate finances to enable her to implement the programme we agreed in document 37 C/4. If  this is not done we risk the continuation of millions of children worldwide being unable to access quality education and  many adults, particularly women, remaining illiterate. Furthermore, we risk lagging behind in science and innovation and  also missing out on delivering on conventions on culture, freedom of expression and access to information. The greatest  loser in this will be the priority areas of Africa, gender equality and youth, and the bigger family of least developed  countries (LDCs) and small island developing States (SIDS).
21.3 We heard the voices of youth in their recommendations urging UNESCO to do more in its fields of competence,  to ensure that peace and sustainable development become a reality for many people, now and not in some distant future.  If we do not provide the requisite resources, we will have shot ourselves in the foot and made a false start in the journey  towards attaining the Sustainable Development Goals. The Ugandan delegation, Madam President, appreciates the  support received from UNESCO over the past biennium in all the programmes. This support has enabled us to address  many issues facing teachers in the delivery of appropriate quality education and issues of science, technology and  innovation and climate change, as well as promoting cultural heritage and freedom of expression. However, we believe  that more can be done and we look forward to this in the next biennium.
21.4 Madam President, the challenges that led to the establishment of UNESCO are still with us today. The world  needs peace today as much as it did 70 years ago, perhaps more. This peace is built in the minds of people through  education, sciences, culture and communication, and through the intellectual cooperation of humanity. Uganda further  requests the Director-General to host a special showing of Pascal Plisson’s film “Le grand jour” for all members of  UNESCO, ministers here present, and members of parliament of various countries. This film encapsulates most of the  principles of UNESCO – youth education, preservation of cultural heritage, and skills development, illustrated through  four young people from Uganda, Mongolia, Cuba and India.
21.5 Uganda would like to congratulate UNESCO on its 70th anniversary. In Uganda, we celebrated this anniversary  at the end of September 2015. We used the occasion to raise awareness among Ugandans, particularly young people, of  the values of UNESCO, what it stands for and its mandate and programmes. As the final celebrations arrive, it is not too  late to reflect on the extent to which the values and aspirations of the founding fathers have been and are being  addressed, so as to develop strategies for the next 70 years. Madam President, I wish the 38th session of the General  Conference of UNESCO fruitful dialogue that will reaffirm UNESCO’s status as a beacon of hope and an agent of  sustainable development and peace. We look forward to your visit to Uganda. Thank you, for God and my country.
22. La Présidente :   J’ai l’honneur de donner la parole à la Vice-Ministre-Présidente du Gouvernement de la Flandre et Ministre  flamande de l’enseignement de la Belgique, S. E. Mme Hilde Crevits.
23.1 Mme Crevits (Belgique):   Madame la Présidente, Madame la Directrice générale, chers collègues, Excellences, Mesdames, Messieurs, la  Belgique se félicite tout d’abord du rôle crucial qui a été confié à l’UNESCO dans la mise en œuvre de l’Agenda 2030  des Nations Unies pour le développement durable. Nous voudrions exprimer notre engagement en faveur du nouveau
87  Cadre d’action Éducation 2030, qui met l’accent sur la qualité de l’éducation tout au long de la vie et reconnaît  explicitement l’éducation comme un bien public. La responsabilité publique qui en découle impose une tâche à chaque  acteur du système éducatif, tant privé que public. L'enseignement des valeurs démocratiques et la promotion du  dialogue entre nos communautés culturelles, religieuses et philosophiques peuvent s'avérer des outils efficaces pour  lutter contre toutes les formes de radicalisation. À cet égard, nous saluons particulièrement le lancement du nouveau  plan mondial d’éducation au développement durable.
23.2 Nous appelons les États membres de l’UNESCO à s’appuyer pleinement sur l’expertise de l’Organisation, en ce  qui concerne les ressources éducatives libres, par exemple, ou pour l'élaboration d'un nouvel instrument normatif  mondial pour la reconnaissance des qualifications relatives à l’enseignement supérieur.
23.3 Le besoin d’une UNESCO énergique, déterminée et efficace n'a jamais été aussi urgent. De violents conflits  armés sont à l'origine de grands flux migratoires mondiaux. Des efforts supplémentaires seront indispensables pour  parvenir à un développement durable au niveau mondial. Notre patrimoine commun pâtit lui aussi des troubles et conflits  qui sévissent dans le monde. Et si le patrimoine est menacé, la population l’est également, et inversement. Les  destructions du patrimoine de l’humanité qui frappent actuellement le Proche et le Moyen-Orient nous touchent au cœur.  En Belgique, nous avons nous-mêmes vécu pareilles tragédies au cours des deux guerres mondiales.
23.4 Les déchirures qui marquent notre paysage ainsi que certaines de nos cités médiévales comme Nivelles et  Ypres, ou encore la bibliothèque de l’Université de Louvain, complètement détruites durant le premier conflit mondial, en  témoignent jusqu’à nos jours. Des initiatives comme #Unite4Heritage mobilisent le soutien de l'opinion publique autour  des actions de l'UNESCO. En contribuant au projet « Sauvegarde d'urgence du patrimoine culturel syrien », le  Gouvernement de la Flandre apporte lui aussi son aide. Il est évident que des actions post-conflit seules ne sont pas  suffisantes. Nous devons agir avant que le patrimoine n'existe plus que dans les manuels d'histoire. Nous nous félicitons  donc du renforcement de l'action de l'UNESCO en matière de protection du patrimoine culturel et de promotion du  pluralisme culturel en cas de conflit armé.
23.5 Il est incontestable que la prévention et la sensibilisation contribuent à la paix, à la stabilité et au développement.  La clé de l'efficacité de l’UNESCO résidera dans la façon dont elle sera capable de combiner ses forces. Ainsi,  l’éducation peut contribuer au développement durable mais également aux sciences, aux technologies et à l'innovation  qui sont indispensables à la réalisation des objectifs de durabilité et à la lutte contre le changement climatique.
23.6 Chers collègues, nous voulons poursuivre nos efforts pour parvenir à un accord qui incitera chacun à contribuer  à la lutte contre le changement climatique. Combler le fossé entre des pays se trouvant à des stades différents de  développement sera un élément-clé pour la conclusion d'un véritable accord sur le climat.
23.7 Nous soulignons également l'importance de la coopération scientifique. L’UNESCO est l'hôte de la Commission  océanographique intergouvernementale (COI), qui joue un rôle essentiel dans le transfert de technologie marine et dans  le développement des capacités. C’est donc avec satisfaction que nous constatons que des efforts supplémentaires  capitaux ont été consentis, dans le projet de budget, en faveur de la Commission. Les résultats du travail de  développement des capacités sont rendus visibles par le Bureau des projets de l’UNESCO/COI (centre de catégorie 1) à  Ostende, qui fête aujourd'hui ses 10 ans d'existence. Un autre anniversaire à célébrer est celui des 10 ans de la  Convention sur la protection et la promotion de la diversité des expressions culturelles. Le Forum organisé en Belgique  pour célébrer ce 10e anniversaire a permis de réaffirmer que la Convention de 2005 est pleinement applicable au  numérique car elle s’inscrit de fait dans le cadre du principe de la neutralité technologique.
23.8 Nous voudrions enfin remercier l’UNESCO de son association à la première Conférence mondiale des  Humanités consacrée aux défis et responsabilités pour une planète en transition, qui se tiendra à Liège au mois d’août
2017. Chers collègues, l’UNESCO est le forum mondial par excellence pour affronter les grands défis de notre  communauté internationale d’un point de vue humaniste et multidimensionnel. Joignons donc nos forces et partageons  nos expertises pour réaliser son programme ambitieux ! Merci.
24. The President:   The next speaker is the Minister of Culture of Singapore, Her Excellency, Ms Grace Fu.
25.1  Ms Fu (Singapore):   Madam President of the General Conference, Mr Chair of the Executive Board, Madam Director-General,  distinguished delegates, ladies and gentlemen, Singapore congratulates UNESCO on 70 years of building peace through  education, science and culture. Singapore is a member of the Intergovernmental Bioethics Committee and of various  UNESCO networks. We proudly reaffirm this partnership on this milestone anniversary for UNESCO. This year, 2015, is  also a special year for Singapore, being our 50th year of independence. It was made even more special with the  inscription of the Singapore Botanic Gardens as a world heritage site.
25.2 Singapore is a young nation, but our roots go back centuries. The Gardens themselves were founded in 1859.  We have carefully preserved this site throughout Singapore’s journey of modernization and development. This did not  happen by chance in our small and densely-populated city-State. Other heritage sites have also stood the test of  development. There are over 7,000 conserved buildings and 70 national monuments in Singapore, such as the Yueh Hai  Ching temple, one of our oldest temples, built in the 1850s, where our ancestors gave thanks after arduous journeys at  sea, or the former Supreme Court and City Hall, from pre-independence days, which we have lovingly restored to house  our new national gallery. This goes to show the values that underpin our urban design and development, the will to  harmonize economic and physical development with social, cultural and environmental needs. This is a people-centred  approach to designing a liveable city of the future.
25.3 Singapore must get this right. As a tiny island State, there is no room for error. Our development is thoughtfully  designed and implemented to support our policy objectives. One example is the environment, and the way we have used  our drains and canals. Located at the equator, we need an efficient drainage system to manage the heavy downpours we  often get. It is not difficult to find big concrete canals in many parts of the country. About 10 years ago, we decided to turn  these drains into active, beautiful and clean water bodies. We converted unsightly canals into meandering rivers,  seamlessly integrated with parks, and populated with canoes and boats. What used to be unsightly concrete features  have become vibrant waterways for the community.
25.4 Another example is our social policy of racial and religious harmony where everyone is treated equally,  regardless of creed. Our community and living spaces are designed to support this, from our unique street food, or  hawker food as we call it in Singapore, to public housing, places of worship and schools. Let me elaborate. Our hawker  food used to be sold on the streets. To improve hygiene and sanitation, we created hawker centres to house our food  vendors or hawkers. Hawkers of Chinese, Indian, Malay and other races operated side by side. Over time, they  influenced one another in their use of spices, ingredients and cooking techniques, producing uniquely Singaporean  flavours and characteristics. These hawker centres are now found in neighbourhoods all over Singapore. There are  options for everyone, including halal food for Muslims and vegetarian food. They are more than just places for a good  meal. They are common spaces for Singaporeans to take part in communal life. A society that eats together stays  together.
25.5 In town planning, we design for a living environment that integrates the different races. As a matter of policy, our  towns are multiracial, with different races living as neighbours to one another. We provide places of worship for different  faiths in every town. We ensure that our schools are multiracial and children can learn their vernacular languages and  grow up with children of different races. All of this shows our effort in applying thoughtful urban design to the process of  development. It is not just for the aesthetics, but to meet policy needs, supported by an appreciation of people’s needs  and aspirations. Singapore is happy to share its experiences in these areas, and to learn from fellow Member States. I  warmly welcome all Member States to join us for the 2016 World Cities Summit in Singapore next July. It will be a  chance for global leaders to share practical insights in urban development, and the design of liveable and sustainable  cities.
25.6 Madam President, I have shared these thoughts on Singapore’s journey of development to illustrate the natural  affinity between our priorities, and UNESCO’s noble mission. We will build on this to forge deeper partnerships with  UNESCO. Singapore is proud to be part of UNESCO’s global action to build peace among all nations. Thank you.
26. The President:   Thank you very much, Excellency. I have now the honour to introduce Her Excellency, Ms Jet Bussemaker,  Minister of Education, Culture and Science of the Netherlands. Thank you very much.
27.1 Ms Bussemaker (Netherlands):    Madam President of the General Conference, Mr Chair of the Executive Board, Madam Director-General,  Excellencies, ladies and gentlemen, as the Dutch Minister of Education, Culture and Science, I am speaking to you today  on behalf of the Kingdom of the Netherlands. I would like to start by giving my compliments to the Director-General,  Ms Irina Bokova, for her leading role in successfully positioning UNESCO’s work, particularly in the fields of education  (Sustainable Development Goal (SDG) 4), gender equality and the empowerment of women and girls (SDG 5), at the  heart of the new 2030 Agenda as it links peace, security and sustainable development.
27.2 Today, I would like to focus on three topics. All three are cornerstones of a healthy and democratic society and  all three are bound by the overarching theme to protect what is valuable and vulnerable. The first is cultural heritage, the  second is freedom of expression and journalists’ safety, and the third is respect for diversity and the rights of lesbian, gay,  bisexual and transgender individuals.
27.3 Let me start with the first topic, cultural heritage. Heritage determines our identities and can be considered the  face of our nations. For precisely these reasons, it is shocking to see heritage on the frontline of conflict. I attach great  importance to UNESCO’s leading role in putting the protection of cultural heritage high on the international agenda.  UNESCO is tasked with coordinating this action. Cooperation within the United Nations, with and between Member  States and other strategic partners, including NGOs, is therefore essential. At a national level, we have to echo this  broad cooperation. Allow me to share the example of the trafficking of cultural goods. To combat this, we need to  cooperate on reliable evidence-based information and data collection. We call on UNESCO and its Member States to  make this part of our common goal.
27.4 This brings me to my second point: the importance of freedom of expression, and in particular the safety of  journalists and other media workers. Independent media is the heartbeat of a properly functioning democracy. It is  therefore unacceptable that journalists and other media workers are being threatened, harassed, physically attacked and  even murdered because of their investigative work or their opinions. At this moment, nine out of ten cases where  journalists are murdered, the killers go unpunished. Two days ago, we commemorated the International Day to End  Impunity for Crimes against Journalists, and for the Netherlands, the implementation of the United Nations Plan of Action  on the Safety of Journalists and the Issue of Impunity is of the utmost importance.
27.5 The third vulnerability that we feel must be protected involves bullying, discrimination and violence towards  pupils and students, boys and girls on the ground of their actual or perceived sexual orientation and gender identity.  During today’s side event on addressing homophobic bullying at school, I met with colleagues from sub-Saharan Africa,  South-East Asia, Latin America and Europe. It is promising to see that ministers of education are reporting progress in  different regions of the world. They do so by developing evidence-based sexuality education, sharing good practices and
89  building strong communities. We made a pledge for next year’s UNESCO’s stock-taking ministerial conference against  homophobia and transphobia in education. In this respect, I would like to conclude this last subject by quoting United  Nations Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon who said earlier: “Hatred of any kind must have no place in the twenty-first  century.[…] We must all raise our voices against attacks on lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender and intersex people.” I  agree fully with him.
27.6 Madam President, in the interest of peace and freedom around the world, UNESCO must be capable of  operating effectively and decisively on all these themes in order to transform vulnerability into strength. Doing so requires  the active contribution of all United Nations organizations, Member States and other strategic partners, including civil  society organizations.
27.7 To conclude, I should like to reiterate our message as a candidate for a non-permanent seat on the 2017-2018  United Nations Security Council. The Netherlands is your partner for peace, justice and development. Thanks to  UNESCO, there is growing awareness that security is not only about armed forces, but also about culture, cultural  heritage, education and sustainable development. We want to fulfil our international responsibility at all levels. Thank you.
28. The President:   Thank you. We now have Her Excellency, Honourable Ms Aishath Shiham, Minister of Education of Maldives.
29.1 Ms Shiham (Maldives):   Madam President, Madam Director-General, Mr Chair of the Executive Board, Excellencies; distinguished  delegates; ladies and gentlemen, it is my pleasure to represent the beautiful islands of the Maldives at the 38th session  of the UNESCO General Conference. I join others in warmly congratulating the Honourable Stanley Mutumba Simataa  on his election as President of this memorable Conference. May I also take this opportunity to express our deepest  appreciation to the Director-General, Ms Irina Bokova, for her remarkable leadership and unrelenting efforts to reform  UNESCO in name of the noble causes of peace and shared prosperity.
29.2  Madam President, after one-and-a-half decades of the new millennium, 2015 remains a year of historical  significance for my country. Perhaps one of the ways for which it will be most remembered will be the historic adoption of  the new Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) by world leaders. These represent a universal, ambitious agenda “of  the people, by the people and for the people” to secure a world that we deserve. Maldives is determined to join hands  with the rest of the world and with international partners to take the bold and urgent steps needed to shift the world onto  a sustainable and resilient path. In our efforts to achieve these goals, we will be building on six out of the eight MDGs  that we have achieved and stand firmly resolved to fulfil the rest.
29.3  We are encouraged by the significant improvements Maldives has made in making access to education  universal for both girls and boys from pre-school to secondary levels. We stand firm in ensuring 12 years of free  education through the Government’s “no-child-left-behind” policy beginning in 2016. We are progressively making  headway in improving the quality and relevance of the education we provide. We have undergone a process of reforming  our school curriculum to place greater emphasis on relevant socioeconomic themes and issues, life skills, and the  development of values and skills, in order to ensure that our citizens are responsible and productive. The reforms uphold  human rights, democracy and justice. We all know that quality education can only be provided by quality teachers. As  such, earlier this year we set higher standards for teachers, and the training of teachers has been given high priority.
29.4  Madam President, investing in people is, we believe, the best way to promote human rights, the best way to  guarantee a brighter future for the generations to come, and the best way to ensure that the democracy gains we have  made are consolidated and further enhanced. That is why President Abdulla Yameen Abdul Gayoom’s Government has  embarked on a national development agenda that is based on the “empowerment of people”: empowerment of youth,  empowerment of children, and empowerment of women.
29.5  Madam President, Excellencies, ladies and gentleman, for us in the Maldives, climate change is a security threat.  Together with other small island developing States, we have taken urgent action to keep the rise of global temperature  below 1.5 degrees Celsius. We are working, in good faith, towards a legally-binding agreement in Paris this month.
29.6  Another such issue is oceans. Oceans are intimately linked with our lives and livelihoods. They are the source of  our food, and the backbone of our heritage and traditions. This is why Maldives banned turtle poaching in the early 1980s,  declared Baa Atoll as a UNESCO biosphere reserve in 2012, and made the entire Maldives a shark sanctuary. We  understand the value of our oceans and the treasures they contain. Our oceans are home to some of the most precious  marine habitats in the world. Building the resilience of our people remains at the centre of our efforts.
29.7  Madam President, each of us is a reflection of our past, of our history. I share with Madam Director-General the  urgency and significance of ensuring that we conserve and promote our rich history and heritage. Heritage in all its forms  brings us closer together as a nation and provides us with a shared vision for the participatory evolution of our nations,  increases our appreciation of the diversity of nations and leads people to peace. Let me conclude by congratulating  UNESCO on its 70th anniversary and reaffirming the Maldives’s commitment to the high ideals of creating a better world  for all that UNESCO stands for. Thank you all.
30. The President:   Thank you. We now have the Minister of Basic Education of South Africa, Her Excellency, Ms Angie Motshekga.  Thank you, Minister.
31.1 Ms Motshekga (South Africa):   Madam President, Mr Chair of the Executive Board, Madam Director-General Irina Bokova, honourable  colleagues and delegates, ladies and gentlemen, South Africa would like to thank UNESCO for the opportunity to
90  address the general policy debate of the 38th session of the General Conference of the United Nations Educational,  Scientific and Cultural Organization.
31.2 First, Madam President, as the South African Development Community region, and in particular as the Republic  of South Africa, we wish to congratulate Stanley Mutumba Simataa for his election yesterday as President of the 38th  session of the General Conference. His election has made us proud as a country, region and the African continent as a  whole, and again I would like to congratulate him.
31.3 As South Africa we recognize fully and support the Education 2030 Agenda as encapsulated in the Education
2030 Framework for Action. Cardinal in this regard is for Member States to fully integrate Sustainable Development Goal  (SDG) 4 in their education programmes, through which inclusive and equitable quality education is ensured and lifelong  learning opportunities for all are promoted.
31.4 Madam President, Madam Director-General, honourable colleagues and delegates, South Africa is fully  committed to continuing to implement the UNESCO programmes. We commit ourselves as a country to integrating  UNESCO programmes, particularly the Education 2030 Framework for Action, in our programmes. Coincidentally, the  Education 2030 Framework for Action is inextricably aligned with our 2030 National Development Plan. The integration of  the Education 2030 Framework for Action with our 2030 National Development Plan is guaranteed.
31.5 I do wish to reiterate our commitment and active participation in UNESCO and its programmes. We want to  reiterate that we fully support the adoption of the Education 2030 Framework for Action, that we will actively participate in  the development of the thematic indicators of the Education 2030 Framework for Action, and that we commit to the  integration of the Education 2030 Framework for Action with our country’s 2030 National Development Plan. We also  fully support the alignment of the Framework with existing education frameworks in Africa and we will continue to  cooperate with Member States, particularly on the African continent, in our region in particular, in strengthening our  monitoring and evaluation as well as reporting processes and mechanisms. We will share with Member States the new  ground-breaking scientific discoveries relating to the new hominin species, named Homo Naledi, which was recently  discovered in our country, as well as from our work involving the Square Kilometre Array (SKA), which again we believe  will contribute greatly to scientific and ground-breaking information about our history and about science.
31.6 I am pleased to report that the Government of South Africa, in cooperation with the Governments of Botswana  and Namibia and the Southern African Development Community Region, is implementing the Stampriet Transboundary  Aquifer System study, which is the only UNESCO pilot case study of its kind. This project, which is an underground  system between South Africa, Botswana and Namibia, is an agro-international programme that will help to harness  underground water resources for our region, which is highly stressed and currently undergoing a very serious drought.  We believe that this programme with UNESCO will help us mitigate the difficulties we are experiencing as a region. We  believe that this programme with UNESCO is an essential life-sustaining resource which will enhance our cooperation as  Member States and hopefully, as I said, will tackle the precarious water scarcity in the region.
31.7 Madam President, Mr Chair, Madam Director-General and colleagues, I want to reiterate that in South Africa, we  commit ourselves fully to the programme and will endeavour at all costs to make sure that we indeed implement the  programme and work in cooperation with other Member States, follow all guidelines and contribute in our humble way to  ensure that as a nation, we meet these goals. I thank you.
32. The President:   Thank you very much, Your Excellency. The next speaker on the list is Minister of Education of Panama, Her  Excellency Ms Marcela Paredes de Vasquez.
(33.1) Mme Paredes de Vásquez (Panama) (traduit de l’espagnol) :  Madame la Présidente de la Conférence générale, Monsieur le Président du Conseil exécutif, Madame la Directrice  générale, Mesdames et Messieurs les délégués, Mesdames et Messieurs, nous nous adressons en cette occasion à cette  éminente Conférence au nom de la République du Panama pour présenter le projet de l’État panaméen en matière  d’éducation et faire part de notre engagement en faveur de la Déclaration d’Incheon (République de Corée) de 2015. Dans  notre pays, il existe un vaste consensus autour de l’idée selon laquelle l’éducation de qualité est la seule voie possible pour  développer les capacités de la population et réduire les inégalités. Nous partageons l’idéal d’une éducation centrée sur l’être  humain, sa dignité et ses droits fondamentaux, ainsi que sur la justice sociale et le respect de la diversité culturelle,  linguistique et ethnique. Au cours des dix dernières années, le Panama a connu l’une des croissances économiques parmi les  plus fortes d’Amérique latine. Malgré cela, il existe dans notre pays des disparités relativement fortes. Les faiblesses en  matière d’éducation et de développement du capital humain persistent au Panama, et améliorer cette situation constitue l’une  de nos principales stratégies.
(33.2) Le Plan stratégique pour 2015-2019 du Gouvernement du Président Juan Carlos Varela donne la priorité aux grands  défis sociaux. Parmi les principales mesures prises par le Gouvernement panaméen dans le domaine de l’éducation, nous  pouvons signaler le renforcement du programme de bourses universelles, qui accorde, sous conditions, entre 30 et 50 dollars  tous les mois à des élèves de l’enseignement secondaire des écoles publiques et privées, ce qui profite à plus de 550 000  élèves. Nous pouvons citer l’amélioration de la qualité des installations éducatives grâce au programme « Mon école  d’abord », qui vise à mettre en place dans tous les centres scolaires des conditions décentes, et à doter les établissements de  tous les équipements nécessaires à un processus d’apprentissage efficace. Dans le cadre de cette initiative, des entreprises  privées ont été sollicitées avec succès, et le gouvernement panaméen a complété les efforts déployés en lançant une  offensive visant à éliminer les classes rudimentaires (faites de terre, de zinc ou de feuilles), qui existent surtout dans les  régions autochtones. Enfin, une autre mesure est l’élargissement de l’offre dans le deuxième cycle de l’enseignement  secondaire et dans l’enseignement préscolaire, avec l’ouverture de 50 nouveaux établissements pour le deuxième cycle du  secondaire et de 2 000 nouvelles classes pour l’enseignement préscolaire.
(33.3) Cependant, les efforts destinés à améliorer l’éducation ne se limitent pas aux infrastructures. Doter les jeunes de  compétences qui leur permettent de relever avec succès les défis que leur réservent le présent et l’avenir constitue aussi une  priorité du gouvernement. Le programme « Panama bilingue » cherche à mettre en place dans les écoles publiques un  enseignement de qualité en anglais et en espagnol. Pour se faire, 10 000 professeurs d’anglais seront formés jusqu’à recevoir  un certificat de maîtrise. Ces enseignants suivront une formation intensive pendant un an, avec quatre mois d’immersion dans  un pays anglophone, avant d’intégrer nos écoles primaires. Le programme « Apprends au maximum » se décline en quatre  axes d’action : « Raisonne au maximum », qui transforme l’enseignement des mathématiques ; « Comprends au maximum »,  qui cherche à améliorer les niveaux de lecture ou de compréhension écrite ; « Découvre au maximum », qui oriente  l’enseignement des sciences sur la recherche ; et « Partage au maximum », qui renforce les éléments d’une formation  complète. Enfin, nous mentionnons la mise en place de l’enseignement technique et la création des instituts techniques  supérieurs non universitaires, qui proposent des cursus techniques de deux ans.
(33.4) D’autres axes d’action importants visent à renforcer l’éducation inclusive dans le pays, avec des normes visant les 0-
3 ans et les jeunes ayant quitté le système scolaire. L’amélioration de la qualité de l’éducation ne serait possible sans  amélioration de la formation initiale et de la formation continue de nos enseignants. Nous comptons améliorer le niveau de nos  enseignants et la gestion des directeurs d’établissements grâce à un institut de formation pédagogique et à un institut  d’administration scolaire. Nous voulons disposer d’un système d’évaluation national incluant la mesure des résultats de  l’apprentissage, et participer au test PISA de 2018.
(33.5) Au nom du Gouvernement panaméen, je souhaiterais remercier l’UNESCO de son soutien et saluer son travail en  faveur de l’éducation. Nous désirons faire part de notre grande satisfaction suite à la signature, le 30 octobre dernier, du  mémorandum d’accord relatif au prêt de personnel par Mme Irina Bokova, Directrice générale de l’UNESCO et Mme Isabel  Saint Malo de Alvarado, Vice-Présidente et Ministre des affaires étrangères du Panama. Enfin, nous réitérons nos félicitations  à l’UNESCO pour son 70e anniversaire, et félicitons Madame Irina Bokova de sa gestion. Nous souhaitons plein succès à la  nouvelle présidence et renouvelons l’engagement de notre pays en faveur de la promotion de l’éducation, de la culture et de la  science sous la direction de l’UNESCO. Je vous remercie.
34. The President:   We have now His Excellency, Honourable Mr Otmar Enrique Oduber, Minister of Tourism, Transportation and  Culture of Aruba. Please, Mr Minister, you have the floor.
35.1 Mr Oduber (Aruba):   Cada ken cu su forsa esey ta un realidad. Tur hende tin un sombra hasta den scuridad. Hende ta keda hende  no ban lubida. Si e zapato unta sirbibo bo tey cana forsa. Dear Madam President, dear Ms Bokova, Director-General of  UNESCO, Your Excellencies, colleagues, ministers, ladies and gentlemen, it is with great honour that I, as the Minister of  Tourism and Culture of Aruba, direct myself towards you at the 38th session of the General Conference of UNESCO.  The words that I have expressed have been written in Papiamento. Originating from an Aruban song, their meaning  reflects the message I hope to share with you today:
35.2 In English, the message said: “We all have our strengths, that is a reality. Everyone has a shadow, even in the  darkest of places. People will remain people, please let us not forget that. If the shoe does not fit you, you won’t be able  to walk straight. Beforehand, let me state that I admire, applaud and support the institution that is UNESCO. Seventy  years striving to build lasting peace on the basis of intellectual solidarity and the promotion of collaboration is a source of  inspiration for many countries, including mine. It is no simple task to connect and coordinate 204 nations striving to  adhere to a collective vision. It is only logical that at times, this collective vision is reassessed in order to ensure that  every country feels represented by it.
35.3 In the case of Aruba, an island in the Caribbean, I can tell you that we are quite similar to as well as quite  different from many countries attending this Conference. A small island home to approximately 110,000 inhabitants,  Aruba is primarily known for its booming tourism industry. Our pristine beaches, year-round sunny weather and service- driven people have been the attraction for many visitors for more than two decades now. Residing within the Dutch  Kingdom, Aruba obtained its independent status in 1986. Fortunate enough to be a worthy partner within this Kingdom,  Aruba is also very proud of its autonomous voice. Although not unfamiliar with worldly challenges, Aruba has known no  wars, no heavy conflicts, and no natural disasters. We count our blessings every day. Does this mean that we are better  off than other countries? Should we be considered exemplary?
35.4 Ladies and gentleman, please allow me to share some thoughts with you on one topic that I believe best reflects  my message today. I would like to address the intangible cultural heritage of Aruba and local efforts for the safeguarding  thereof. Considering the safeguarding of intangible cultural heritage, it can be mentioned that the Kingdom of the  Netherlands ratified the associated Convention in 2012. Aruba, as part of the Kingdom, also has the duty to comply with  the rules of this Convention. Article 13 of the Convention states that “[t]o ensure the safeguarding, development and  promotion of the intangible cultural heritage present in its territory, each State Party shall endeavour to […] designate or  establish one or more competent bodies for the safeguarding of the intangible cultural heritage present in its territory”.
35.5 My intention is not to repeat information that you already know nor is it to waste your time. Yet the previously  described sentence is but one example of the challenges Aruba has encountered during its ratification process. As  required by the Convention, it has not been possible for the island of Aruba to designate or establish a competent body  for the safeguarding of our intangible heritage, the reason being that it is simply not feasible to acquire the local expertise  and funding to do so. Perhaps you may call it a matter of prioritization. We often get quite inspired after visiting such  conferences as this one and meeting colleagues and other professionals who understand what the priorities are at an  international level.
35.6 Yet when we return to our daily realities, who are we to solely decide what the most pressing issues are? It is  not always easy to sit at the table and advocate for culture when stark budget cuts are a current trend for most of us. It  becomes even more difficult for those who are part of a potent yet small nation. As the American diplomat Madeleine  Albright once said, “Do resolutions have teeth, and if they do, do they bite?” This shows the stark contrast between a  diplomatic environment and our daily realities.
35.7 Does this mean that Aruba as a nation will cease to strive to ratify this Convention? No, we will call upon our  partners, friends and allies to provide us with perhaps new insights that enable us to reach this collective objective. I will  sit at the table again for as long as it takes. I will also call upon UNESCO to recognize these challenges that are often  characteristic of smaller nations and that prioritization of the small island developing States (SIDS) should become a  reality. Thank you very much.
36. La Présidente:   Merci. Nous avons à présent le plaisir d’accueillir la Ministre de l’éducation de base du Cameroun, S. E. Mme  Youssouf Hadidja Alim.
37. Mme Hadidja Alim (Cameroun):   Madame la Présidente de la Conférence générale, Monsieur le Président du Conseil exécutif, Madame la  Directrice générale, Mesdames et Messieurs les ministres et chefs de délégation, Excellences, Mesdames et Messieurs  les ambassadeurs délégués permanents, Mesdames et Messieurs, la 38e session de la Conférence générale de  l’UNESCO marque un moment particulier de la vie de notre Organisation. En effet, en même temps qu’elle conclut  l’année de célébration du 70e anniversaire de la signature de l’Acte constitutif de l’UNESCO, elle constitue la première  rencontre des États membres après l’adoption par l’Assemblée générale des Nations Unies, le 25 septembre dernier à  New York, du programme de développement pour la période post-2015 qui marque le passage du cycle des OMD à  celui des ODD.
37.2 C’est donc pour moi un grand honneur et un réel plaisir de prendre la parole au nom de la République du  Cameroun en cette circonstance solennelle. Permettez-moi tout d’abord de remercier chaleureusement M. Stanley
93  Mutumba Simataa, de la Namibie, d’avoir accepté de représenter l’Afrique à la présidence de la 38e session de la  Conférence générale de l’UNESCO et de le féliciter pour sa brillante élection.
37.3 Monsieur le Président, je puis d’ores et déjà vous assurer du soutien de mon pays dans l’accomplissement de  votre mission. Dans le même chapitre, je voudrais rendre un hommage à votre prédécesseur, M. Hao Ping, pour la  compétence avec laquelle il s’est acquitté de son mandat. Sa présence constante à toutes les rencontres organisées au  Siège de l’Organisation a été la preuve de son engagement profond et de tout le sérieux avec lequel il a assumé sa  charge. Permettez-moi également d’adresser mes chaleureuses félicitations à S. E. Mohamed Sameh Amr, Président du  Conseil exécutif, pour le doigté avec lequel il a mené la préparation de nos assises. Les États membres retiendront aussi  que c’est à son implication personnelle que nous devons la rénovation de la salle du Conseil exécutif, à laquelle le  Cameroun a apporté une contribution de 50 000 euros.
37.4 Enfin, mes félicitations vont à Mme Irina Bokova, Directrice générale de l’UNESCO, pour le courage et le  dynamisme avec lesquels elle dirige l’UNESCO. Je lui adresse également mes félicitations pour l’initiative qu’elle a prise  d’organiser un Forum des dirigeants spécial 70e anniversaire, et la remercier d’avoir bien voulu y convier S. E. M. Paul  Biya, Président de la République du Cameroun.
37.5 Madame la Directrice générale, Excellences, Mesdames et Messieurs, l’UNESCO a fortement contribué à la  formulation des ODD, notamment à la définition de l’ODD 4 relatif à l’éducation, ainsi qu’à ses cibles. L’adoption en ce  jour du Cadre d’action Éducation 2030 est la preuve du rôle de leader que joue cette organisation dans le domaine de  l’éducation. Dans la même dynamique, l’UNESCO a veillé à ce que soient prises en compte ses valeurs et ses visions  dans les domaines des sciences naturelles et exactes, des sciences sociales et humaines, de la culture, de la  communication et de l’information.
37.6 Madame la Directrice générale, la 37e session de la Conférence générale avait adopté la stratégie  opérationnelle révisée pour la priorité Afrique. Celle-ci était apparue comme la voie idoine pour assurer à cette priorité  globale de notre Organisation une plus grande visibilité et une meilleure prise en charge dans les programmes de  l’UNESCO. Deux années se sont écoulées et nous constatons qu’il est toujours difficile d’apprécier la performance de  cette priorité. Aussi soutenons-nous la demande qui vous a été adressée par le Conseil exécutif de lui présenter, à sa
199e session, une proposition en vue de la prise en compte des indicateurs de performance des priorités globales  Afrique et Égalité des genres, ainsi que des points de référence et cibles correspondantes, de sorte que ces priorités  soient dûment reflétées dans tous les résultats escomptés pertinents.
37.7 Mesdames et Messieurs, je voudrais également saisir cette occasion pour relever avec force que les relations  entre le Cameroun et l’UNESCO sont excellentes depuis 1960, date de l’adhésion de mon pays à l’UNESCO. Celle-ci,  depuis lors, accompagne le Cameroun dans la formation des ressources humaines de qualité et dans les réformes des  programmes liés à ces domaines de compétence. Comment ne pas rappeler, pour s’en féliciter, qu’au cours des deux  dernières années nous avons vu ces relations se densifier, avec la visite que S. E. Mme Irina Bokova a effectuée à  Yaoundé, à l’invitation du Président de la République, S. E. M. Paul Biya. Une visite au cours de laquelle elle a procédé  à l’inauguration du Bureau régional multisectoriel de l’UNESCO à Yaoundé, qui bénéficie d’une dotation annuelle de
300 000 dollars des E.-U., soit 150 millions de francs CFA, inscrits au budget du Cameroun. Permettez-moi, Excellences,  de saisir l’occasion qui m’est offerte pour exprimer la profonde gratitude du Gouvernement camerounais à la Directrice  générale de l’UNESCO pour l’estime, la considération et l’honneur faits à notre pays.
37.8 En outre, la coopération Cameroun-UNESCO vient de s’enrichir par la décision toute récente d’ériger le Centre  d’excellence en microscience de Yaoundé en centre de catégorie 2 sous l’égide de l’UNESCO. Je voudrais remercier ici  solennellement le Conseil exécutif pour cette décision, qui dote la sous-région Afrique centrale d’un cadre de recherche  performant et moderne dans le domaine des sciences. Nous avons l’espoir que le Centre International de Référence  Chantal Biya (CIRCB), dont le dossier a déjà été soumis à l’UNESCO, connaîtra le même aboutissement heureux.
37.9 Enfin, mon pays tient à signifier sa profonde gratitude à l’UNESCO pour son aide au titre du programme de  participation et la création de 15 nouvelles radios communautaires ainsi que la réhabilitation de 21 autres existantes. Par  ailleurs, mon pays ambitionne de faire de la réserve de faune du Dja, avec l’aide de l’UNESCO et des autres partenaires,  un exemple réussi de conciliation des objectifs de développement avec l’impératif de conservation du patrimoine culturel.
37.10 Mesdames et Messieurs, je voudrais tout simplement dire que le Cameroun reste aux côtés de l’Organisation et  continuera à lui apporter son concours en vue de la promotion et de la diffusion des vertus cardinales qui fondent son  action et auxquelles l’humanité est si fièrement attachée parce qu’elles justifient notre existence. Je vous remercie de  votre aimable attention. Choukran.
(39.1) M. Thneibat (Jordanie) (traduit de l’arabe):   Au nom de Dieu, le Clément, le Miséricordieux. Madame la Présidente de la Conférence générale, Monsieur le  Président du Conseil exécutif, Madame la Directrice générale de l’UNESCO, Excellences les chefs et membres de délégation,  que la paix, la miséricorde et la bénédiction de Dieu soient sur vous. J’ai le plaisir, tout d’abord, d’adresser mes félicitations à  Son Excellence M. Stanley Simataa pour son élection au poste de Président de la Conférence générale de l’UNESCO à sa
38e session et de lui souhaiter tous les succès dans la gestion des travaux de la Conférence. J’exprime également mes  remerciements et mon appréciation à M. Hao Ping pour sa présidence réussie de la 37e session de la Conférence générale,  ainsi qu’au Président et aux membres du Conseil exécutif, et je saisis cette occasion pour louer les efforts de Mme Irina  Bokova dans sa direction de l’Organisation au fil des années passées. J’exprime également l’appréciation du Gouvernment de  la Jordanie à l’endroit de l’équipe dirigeante de l’Organisation pour ses efforts visant à préserver le patrimoine culturel de  Jérusalem, plus que jamais menacé par la judaïsation et la restriction de l’entrée des fidèles à la Mosquée al-Aqṣa (al-ḥaram  ash-sharīf) par les autorités d’occupation. Nous réitérons l’importance de la prise en compte des aspects politiques et  juridiques de cette cause sensible et soulignons la volonté du Gouvernement jordanien de fournir le soutien nécessaire au  maintien de la situation de Jérusalem d’avant la guerre de 1967 et à la préservation du tissu culturel, urbain et démographique  de la ville sainte en général et des lieux saints islamiques et chrétiens en particulier. Je lance aujourd’hui un appel en vue de  faire de la préservation du patrimoine culturel l’une des priorités de la 38e session de la Conférence générale de l’Organisation.
(39.2) Mesdames, Messieurs, nous nous retrouvons tous les deux ans pour passer en revue nos réalisations et nos plans  et souligner notre responsabilité et notre engagement à mettre en œuvre l’Acte constitutif de l’Organisation, qui appelle à  « contribuer au maintien de la paix et de la sécurité en resserrant, par l’éducation, la science et la culture, la collaboration  entre nations, afin d’assurer le respect universel de la justice, de la loi, des droits de l’homme et des libertés fondamentales  pour tous, sans distinction de race, de sexe, de langue ou de religion, que la Charte des Nations Unies reconnaît à tous les  peuples. » En Jordanie, nous nous engageons à respecter, par nos paroles et nos actes, cet instrument humanitaire, en  espérant consolider les idées-forces que sont la paix, l’égalité, les droits de l’homme et les libertés fondamentales des  individus. Nous assumons d’énormes responsabilités et fardeaux économiques, sociaux, culturels et politiques afin de traduire  notre engagement en réalité et faire en sorte que la Jordanie devienne un pôle d’attraction et un refuge pour la plupart des  peuples de notre région, où nous partageons notre pain quotidien sans la moindre discrimination quant au genre, à la religion  ou à l’identité, et où nous offrons l’éducation, les soins médicaux, des emplois et toutes les chances de mener une vie dans la  dignité, la sécurité, le respect d’autrui et la cohabitation paisible. Cet engagement a été pris par les dirigeants, le  Gouvernement et le peuple jordaniens en toute sincérité grâce à la vision pleine de sagesse de Sa Majesté le Roi Abdallah II,  fils du vénérable Hussein, du Royaume hachémite de Jordanie.
(39.3) Mesdames, Messieurs, la Jordanie a accueilli un grand nombre de réfugiés de République arabe syrienne, d’Iraq et  d’autres pays qui souffrent du fléau croissant du terrorisme et des horribles conflits armés locaux. Le nombre des réfugiés  syriens résidant en Jordanie est passé à près d’un million et demi de personnes, dont 145 000 enfants scolarisés, qui sont
95  traités exactement comme les élèves jordaniens en ce qui concerne les possibilités d’éducation : les organisations  internationales assument 38% du coût de leur éducation, ce qui implique que l’État doit assumer des charges financières  considérables pour garantir l’infrastructure et les services éducatifs et sanitaires nécessaires, dans un pays aux ressources et  aux moyens réduits. Voilà pourquoi j’en appelle à notre vénérable Organisation et à la communauté internationale afin qu’elles  multiplient leurs efforts pour fournir un soutien plus important à la Jordanie et à l’Office de secours et de travaux des Nations  Unies pour les réfugiés de Palestine dans le Proche-Orient (UNRWA) afin qu’ils puissent continuer d’accomplir leurs missions  éducatives et humanitaires vis-à-vis des réfugiés dans les zones où ils se trouvent, que ce soit dans les camps ou dans les  villes. En outre, la Jordanie abrite dans ses écoles des milliers d’élèves de 85 nationalités différentes du monde entier ; le  Trésor public assume une grande partie du coût de leur scolarité et leur fournit des services éducatifs sur un pied d’égalité  avec les élèves jordaniens. Nous considérons l’éducation comme un service public mondial ; c’est pourquoi nous avons  besoin d’un soutien mondial afin de pouvoir offrir ce service dans les meilleures conditions aux enfants des réfugiés et des  migrants en Jordanie. En dépit du fait que l’octroi de l’asile pèse lourd sur les ressources économiques du pays, nous ne  ménagerons aucun effort pour offrir toutes les possibilités et tous les services humanitaires et assurer des conditions de vie  dignes aux diverses catégories de réfugiés, jusqu’à ce qu’ils soient en mesure de retourner volontairement dans leur pays.
(39.4)  Mesdames, Messieurs, les divers conflits et luttes qui affectent la région du Moyen-Orient avec leurs nombreux  facteurs, tels la pauvreté, le chômage, l’ignorance, le sentiment d’oppression et de persécution et l’absence de justice et  d’égalité, mènent tous à un même résultat, à savoir les catastrophes humanitaires nées du chaos, de la haine ou du  confessionnalisme. Ce sont les individus qui en paient le prix, dans leur humanité, leur civilisation et leur culture. Ces  catastrophes donnent une mauvaise image des sociétés, ce qui mène finalement à une grave régression intellectuelle et  développementale dans laquelle l’humanisme disparaît, car il n’y a guère de principes nationaux sans véritables citoyens.
40. La Présidente:   Merci beaucoup, Monsieur le Ministre. A présent, j’ai le plaisir de donner la parole à S. E. M. Ayeid Mousseid  Yahya, Ambassadeur permanent de Djibouti auprès de l’UNESCO.
41.1 M. Yahya (Djibouti) :   Madame la Présidente de la Conférence générale, Monsieur le Président du Conseil exécutif, Madame la  Directrice générale, Mesdames et Messieurs les ministres, Mesdames et Messieurs les délégués permanents,  Mesdames et Messieurs, avant toute chose, qu’il me soit permis de féliciter M. Simataa,  pour sa brillante élection à la  tête de la 38e session de la Conférence générale de l’UNESCO. Je suis convaincu et persuadé qu’il saura diriger les  travaux durant les deux années à venir avec le bon dosage d’autorité, de diplomatie et de sagesse que requiert sa  fonction. Son pays, la Namibie, s’est toujours distingué en s’acquittant brillamment de ses responsabilités quand l’Afrique  les lui a confiées. Nos remerciements et notre gratitude vont également à l’endroit de son prédécesseur, M. Hao Ping qui,  durant les deux années passées, a su diriger notre Conférence avec brio, courtoisie et sagesse.
41.2 Madame la Présidente, en rappelant l’importance de l’UNESCO, je voudrais ici rendre un hommage appuyé et  particulier à notre Directrice générale, Mme Irina Bokova, qui, malgré une situation budgétaire difficile, a su mener notre  Organisation à bon port, et surtout lui donner le rôle catalyseur qui est le sien pour une meilleure visibilité. Qu’elle en soit  vivement remerciée.
41.3 Au moment où nous célébrons le 70e anniversaire de l’UNESCO, le préambule de l’Acte constitutif – et je cite –  « Les guerres prenant naissance dans l’esprit des hommes, c’est dans l’esprit des hommes que doivent être élevées les  défenses de la paix » n’a jamais été aussi pertinent que ces deux dernières années où le contexte mondial est en  ébullition, avec les guerres, l’extrémisme, la question des migrations et les problématiques climatiques.
41.4 Mesdames et Messieurs, il va sans dire que tout est prioritaire à l’UNESCO, dès lors qu’il s’agit d’éducation, de  science et de culture. Mais je souhaiterais dans cette brève intervention mettre l’accent sur quelques aspects importants  au plan national qui rejoignent en tous points les paragraphes des objectifs de développement durable adoptés à New  York, en septembre dernier. Mon pays poursuit plusieurs priorités et l’éducation y figure en premier lieu.
41.5 L’Afrique a sans aucun doute parcouru un long chemin depuis le Forum mondial sur l’éducation de Dakar, en
2000, et mon pays n’a pas été en reste car la République de Djibouti a depuis lors entrepris des réformes en profondeur  afin de s’adapter aux grandes mutations dans le monde de l’éducation. Sous l’impulsion du Président de la République,  S. E. Ismaïl Omar Guelleh, cette réforme de notre système éducatif a eu pour conséquence l’élargissement de l’accès à  l’école conforme aux valeurs républicaines, dans les zones urbaines comme rurales. On a vu une augmentation très  significative de la scolarisation des filles ; on est parvenu même à la parité totale dans l’éducation primaire, et l’on  s’achemine vers le même schéma dans le secondaire. Nous avons connu une augmentation des capacités de formation  continue pour les enseignants, avec la création du Centre de formation des enseignants de l’enseignement fondamental,  ainsi que de la capacité à produire des manuels scolaires de qualité adaptés au contexte local, du primaire au  secondaire.
41.6 Les nations du monde se retrouvent dans cette enceinte aujourd’hui pour réaffirmer une conviction commune :  le savoir et la culture sont le propre de l’homme, et leur protection, leur transmission et leur partage constituent pour  nous tous un devoir supérieur. L’UNESCO est précisément l’instance qui garantit cet engagement commun. Nous  pensons en effet que la culture de la paix, intellectuellement nourrie de tolérance et de respect réciproque, organisée  thématiquement autour d’activités et de projets concrets, doit être l’un des piliers de cette prestigieuse organisation.  Notre pays, et au-delà la sous-région de la Corne de l’Afrique, souffre des conséquences des conflits dans la région, des  risques de l’extrémisme violent, du terrorisme et du fondamentalisme. Nous soutenons les actions en faveur de la  promotion de la diversité culturelle, de l’acceptation de l’autre dans ses différences religieuses, culturelles, sociales ou  politiques. C’est pour cela que notre pays s’est associé à la proposition des États-Unis d’Amérique concernant la lutte  contre l’extrémisme violent à travers l’éducation.
41.7 Mesdames et Messieurs, le Djibouti que je représente se réjouit de sa coopération fructueuse avec l’UNESCO  dans le domaine des sciences et vous informe, alors que s’ouvre aujourd’hui le Forum mondial de la science, qu’il
96  prendra intégralement en charge la traduction française, la mise en page et la publication du Rapport de l’UNESCO sur  la science 2015. Ceci témoigne, si besoin en était, de notre attachement au multilinguisme et permettra à n’en point  douter une meilleure vulgarisation dans l’espace francophone. À trois semaines de l’ouverture de la COP21 dans le pays  hôte de l’UNESCO, notre Organisation doit assumer la part qui lui revient, et je tiens à féliciter notre Directrice générale  pour son rôle proactif dans ce domaine. Je la remercie également de sa participation aux sommets que mon pays a  accueillis en mai dernier, respectivement sur le changement climatique et sur la résilience, la recherche et l’innovation.  L’objectif de ces deux sommets était d’offrir une tribune aux pays de la région pour engager un débat de fond autour des  risques et opportunités d’une riposte commune contre le changement climatique et préparer la COP21. Le Djibouti est  durement affectée par les conséquences du changement climatique : sécheresse récurrente, inondations, rareté des  pluies et baisse de la production agricole. Ces deux conférences avaient pour objet d’identifier des projets et des  programmes ciblés afin de lutter contre ces conséquences négatives.
41.8 En conclusion, je voudrais réaffirmer ici la foi de Djibouti dans les idéaux de l’UNESCO et dans l’importance de  la coopération multilatérale pour léguer un avenir meilleur aux générations futures. Je vous remercie.
42. The President:   I now have the pleasure to introduce Her Excellency Ms Vilma Kathleen McNish, Ambassador Extraordinary and  Plenipotentiary, Permanent Delegate of Jamaica to UNESCO. Thank you very much, Ambassador.
43.1 Ms McNish (Jamaica):   Madam President, Madam Director-General, Honourable Ministers, Permanent Delegates, ladies and gentlemen,  I bring you greetings from Jamaica. To Mr Stanley Simataa, I offer sincere congratulations on his election as President of  the 38th session of the General Conference of UNESCO. He is assured of Jamaica’s full support and cooperation during  his tenure. To the Chair of the Executive Board, we are deeply grateful for your diligent stewardship over the last  biennium.
43.2 To you Madam Director-General, I extend the Government of Jamaica’s commendation on your astute  leadership of UNESCO amidst the unprecedented challenges facing the Organization. You have been steadfast and  resolute in your efforts to steer the Organization despite financial difficulties. We applaud your tenacity and resolve on  behalf of UNESCO to respond to the complex humanitarian crises and cultural tragedies that have resulted from violent  extremism and religious intolerance manifested so acutely in the wanton destruction of world heritage sites, in Iraq, the  Syrian Arab Republic and elsewhere. We are squarely behind your “#Unite4Heritage” campaign. I also take this  opportunity to welcome our sister Caribbean island, Monserrat, as an Associate Member of UNESCO. You can count on  Jamaica’s support and collaboration.
43.3 Madam President, 70 years ago at the founding of UNESCO, there was a shared and fervent vision of a  multilateral institution that would harness the creativity, collective will and determination of the international community to  solve some of the world’s most pressing problems and contribute to sustainable peace and prosperity. That vision  remains as relevant today as it was seven decades ago. Now more than ever, UNESCO is playing an increasingly  defining role in pursuit of a more diversified, dynamic and inclusive global agenda. This milestone in UNESCO’s history  occurs at a crucial moment for the international community. It coincides with the international efforts to chart a new global  agenda for sustainable development and to reach a legally binding consensus on climate change.
43.4 The global effort to elaborate an inclusive post-2015 development agenda is a poignant reminder of our  capacities as humans for compassion that transcends national boundaries. This humanistic approach resonates with  millions of people, who sadly still live in extreme poverty or are otherwise marginalized by inequities in global progress  and prosperity, as well as those marginalized by religious intolerance, xenophobia and gender inequality.
43.5 With its core mandate to promote international cooperation in education, the sciences, culture, communication  and information, UNESCO remains well-placed to play a significant role in the fulfilment of the development aspirations  of millions around the world. This is reflected in its leadership in three seminal areas: culture for the future; education for  all (EFA); and science for a sustainable future.
43.6 As a country whose culture is world-renowned, Jamaica recognizes UNESCO’s invaluable role in promoting the  cultural and creative industries as key drivers of development. The cultural and creative industries contribute significantly  to Jamaica’s gross domestic product (GDP). Indeed, the National Cultural and Creative Industries Commission was  established last year to undertake the development and implementation of a policy and master plan for the sector.
43.7 Madam President, the Third International Conference on Small Island Developing States held in Samoa last  September focused the world’s attention on a group of countries that remain a special case for sustainable development  in view of their unique and peculiar vulnerabilities. I refer, in particular, to their vulnerability to the adverse effects of  climate change. Perhaps more than any other countries, small island developing States (SIDS) have a vested interest in  a legally-binding agreement emanating from COP 21 in Paris later this year – an agreement that includes innovative and  sustainable climate change financing that will enable our countries as well as our development partners, such as  UNESCO, to continue their efforts to boost climate education and build capacity for adaptation and mitigation.
43.8 While we lament the demise of UNESCO’s Intersectoral Platform for SIDS owing to the financial crisis facing the  Organization, Jamaica commends UNESCO for its creativity in responding to the unique vulnerabilities of small island  developing States and welcomes the priority attention that continues to be accorded to SIDS in UNESCO’s Medium- Term Strategy.
43.9 Madam President, the Government of Jamaica is deeply committed to improving our people’s lives and ensuring  prosperity and sustainable development. These efforts have been aided, in no small part, by UNESCO’s active
97  engagement in Jamaica. I should mention that this year the Jamaica National Commission for UNESCO celebrates its
50th anniversary.
43.10 On behalf of the Government of Jamaica, allow me to express our appreciation to UNESCO for its continuing  focus on social inclusion, on building the skills of our people through technical and vocational education and training  (TVET), and in supporting our efforts to ensure greater gender equality, eradicating illiteracy and poverty and promoting  youth empowerment and science and technology.
43.11 Madam President, at the 39th session of the World Heritage Committee in Bonn, Germany, in July, Jamaica was  honoured and privileged to have its first site, the Blue and John Crow Mountains, inscribed on the World Heritage List,  the first mixed site in the Caribbean region and one of 32 in the world. We are mindful of the trust placed in us to protect  and preserve this unique landscape as part of the common heritage of mankind. I end by renewing the Government of  Jamaica’s commitment to and support for UNESCO in furthering the progress of our community of nations, as well as our  commitment to values of peace and prosperity for the benefit of present and future generations. Thank you.  Mr Simataa resumes the Chair.
44. The President:   Thank you very much, Your Excellency. Our next speaker is Her Excellency, Ms Ursula Plassnik, Ambassador,  Permanent Delegate of Austria to UNESCO. Your Excellency, you have the floor.
45.1 Ms Plassnik (Austria):   Mr President, Madam Director-General, Mr Chair of the Executive Board, ladies and gentlemen. Mr President,  let me first congratulate you upon your election as President of the 38th session of the General Conference of UNESCO.
45.2 Anniversaries, ladies and gentlemen, are a welcome occasion to reflect on achievements and future directions.  Seventy years ago, UNESCO was created to enhance intellectual cooperation for education, science, culture and  communication. Its founding principles and standards have perhaps never been so in tune with the needs of our societies  as they are today.
45.3 Across the globe, we are witnessing frightful attacks against human rights and fundamental freedoms. We see a  growing number of crimes committed against journalists, the destruction of our cultural heritage, the dislocation of  millions of people uprooted from their homes and the denial of children’s right to education. Currently, there are some
60 million people worldwide fleeing from their countries. This is the highest figure ever recorded and will lead to a lasting  transformation of all our societies. It is important to show solidarity and to face this challenge in a humanitarian spirit. We  have to perceive change as an opportunity and actively steer and shape it. We appreciate and value the participation of  civil society and NGOs and their vital role in achieving this change.
45.4 Rightfully, on a policy level, the new 2030 Agenda places education as one core element of the Sustainable  Development Goals (SDGs). Education is an important enabler and driver to “transform our world”, successfully  combating global poverty, building a life of dignity for all and leaving no one behind. This is inclusive development.  Austria is fully committed to free and comprehensive basic education that integrates the pillars of education for  sustainable development (ESD) as well as global citizenship education (GCED). Our initiative in the Executive Board to  further UNESCO’s role in promoting global citizenship education was supported by a large number of countries and  continues to grow. Global citizenship education enables individuals to engage with complex global topics and with an  increasingly interconnected global society. Global citizenship education can help pupils and students to reflect on their  potential, support democracy and social participation, appreciate diversity and define their identity in a way that it is not  distorted by fanatical and fundamentalist ideologies.
45.5 Likewise, we see culture as an enabler and driver of development. Every approach to development needs to  build upon its specific historical, economic and cultural contexts. UNESCO has undertaken tremendous efforts to  highlight the impact of culture on social cohesion, inclusion and growth. With a number of conventions, UNESCO has set  milestones to highlight the intrinsic value of culture for individuals as well as for societies, in particular the diversity of  cultural expressions and the protection of cultural heritage. Through her tireless efforts, the Director-General has  succeeded in raising global awareness for the protection of our common heritage, especially in the midst of armed  conflicts, as well as the promotion of cultural diversity.
45.6 Austria, ladies and gentlemen, is committed to respecting the aspiration of countries to shape their cultural  policies, in conformity with universally recognized human rights instruments. It is our task to promote and protect an  enabling environment which allows a diversity of cultural expressions and safeguards fundamental freedoms. Sadly  enough, we are witnessing emerging threats and deliberate destruction of heritage in a number of countries. Culture and  cultural heritage are at the frontline of many armed conflicts today because of their symbolic value. In line with the Hague  Convention for the Protection of Cultural Property in the Event of Armed Conflict, we think it is extremely important to  take measures even in times of peace, including international and national awareness-raising efforts, enhanced technical  assistance and capacity-building. We thus endorse UNESCO’s action plan for the emergency safeguarding of the Syrian  cultural heritage and we are pleased to financially support this project. In Austria, the federal Ministry of Culture and  Communication is currently organizing a multi-stakeholder dialogue forum to draw public attention to the problem of illicit  trafficking of cultural objects and financing of terrorism.
45.7 Austria is an outgoing member of the Executive Board. We have placed our work in the Organization above  particular national interests. We have actively supported all initiatives to enhance UNESCO’s focus and relevance,  visibility and impact – and we are at the end of our four-year term, convinced that the Organization is better positioned  than before. Thank you for your kind attention.
46. The President:   Thank you very much, Your Excellency. Our next speaker is His Excellency, Mr Bernard Shamlaye, Ambassador,  Permanent Delegate of Seychelles to UNESCO. Your Excellency, you have the floor.
47.1 M. Shamlaye (Seychelles) :   Monsieur le Président, Madame la Directrice générale, Monsieur le Président du Conseil exécutif, Excellences,  Mesdames et Messieurs, les Seychelles vous félicitent de votre élection, Monsieur le Président, et vous souhaitent un  fructueux mandat.
47.2 Nous saluons la Directrice générale et la félicitons pour son travail et la conduite des réformes nécessaires pour  assurer une plus grande efficience et efficacité de l’Organisation et faire en sorte que la voix de l’UNESCO compte dans  les délibérations internationales. Alors que nous célébrons le 70e anniversaire de l’UNESCO, nous saluons ses  nombreuses réalisations et sa contribution au progrès dans le monde. Si nous nous tournons vers le passé, c’est pour  agir avec sagesse aujourd'hui afin de mieux préparer l’avenir. Le monde sera-t-il meilleur lorsque les enfants et les  jeunes d'aujourd'hui commémoreront le 100e anniversaire de l’UNESCO ?
47.3 Les Seychelles accueillent avec satisfaction l’adoption de l’Agenda 2030 pour le développement durable, qui  définit le travail collectif à accomplir au cours des 15 prochaines années. En même temps, il est crucial que la  Conférence sur les changements climatiques soit une réussite et débouche sur les accords nécessaires à la sauvegarde  de la planète et à un développement durable et inclusif. C’est dans ce contexte que nous reconnaissons la nécessité de  l’UNESCO et sa contribution à la paix, à la sécurité et au développement. Nous sommes tous conscients du fait qu’elle  doit pouvoir compter sur les ressources dont elle a besoin pour s’acquitter de sa mission et devons donc tous lui  apporter notre part.
47.4 Les Seychelles saluent la contribution de l’UNESCO à la 3e Conférence internationale sur les petits États  insulaires en développement et ses actions de suivi. Nous attendons la version finalisée du Plan d’action pour les PIED,  accompagnée d’une stratégie de mise en œuvre. Nous soulignons aussi la nécessité de la mobilisation de ressources  par l’UNESCO et les États membres.
47.5 Les Seychelles accordent une grande importance à la coopération avec l’UNESCO. Nous exprimons ici notre  reconnaissance pour le soutien apporté par l’Institut international de planification de l’éducation dans la formulation de la  stratégie à moyen terme concernant l’éducation et pour l’appui du Bureau international d’éducation aux activités liées à  sa mise en œuvre. Aujourd’hui, les Seychelles offrent une éducation gratuite et obligatoire de 10 ans à tous les enfants –  filles et garçons. À partir de 2016, celle-ci sera étendue à 11 ans. Les réalisations sont certes considérables, mais les  défis demeurent. Parmi les priorités, figurent le recrutement, la rétention et le développement professionnel des  enseignants, la réforme des curricula en vue d’améliorer la qualité et d’assurer une plus grande pertinence, et  l’amélioration de l’enseignement et de la formation techniques et professionnels. La jeune Université des Seychelles  contribue de manière significative à l’enseignement supérieur : un domaine qui demande davantage d’attention.   (L’orateur poursuit en anglais)
47.6 Mr President, Seychelles was pleased to participate in the World Oceans Day event in June, organized by the  Intergovernmental Oceanographic Commission (IOC), which helped to draw attention to the importance of the ocean to  the Earth’s climate. We appreciate IOC’s support in the organization of the second Blue Economy Summit that  Seychelles will co-host in Abu Dhabi in January 2016. Coastal management and ensuring the health and productivity of  oceans are crucial for small island developing States (SIDS).
47.7 Seychelles is finalizing a marine spatial plan for its exclusive economic zone of 1.3 million square kilometres.  Some 30% of this area will be made marine protected areas (MPA) as a way to adapt to climate change and will also  promote ocean research and protect the livelihood of artisanal fishermen and fisheries in general.
47.8 We look forward to continued and increased support for strengthening our capacity to better implement the  provisions of the culture conventions, for safeguarding the tangible and intangible cultural heritage and for the  development of creative industries.
47.9 Seychelles has recently adopted a science, technology and innovation (STI) policy. The challenge is now to  implement it. Learning from good practices elsewhere and the support of UNESCO and other partners will be of great  help. Seychelles will also be more closely engaged with UNESCO social and human sciences programmes as we work  to maintain and strengthen the social cohesion, inclusiveness and social justice that are so important, especially in a  small population, in the context of an increasingly complex world.
47.10 We commend the work of the UNESCO Institute for Statistics (UIS). We recognize the need for improved data  collection and sharing and analytical skills in order to better use evidence for decision-making. Disaggregated data is  required for a better understanding of situations, both by national bodies, international organizations and development  partners. ICTs provide us with the tools to achieve many of our objectives. We must acquire the means and the capability  to use them effectively. We look to UNESCO’s support in attaining our objectives and in facilitating South-South  cooperation which, combined with North-South cooperation, can make a telling contribution to addressing the priorities of  developing countries.
47.11 Africa and gender equality are the Organization’s global priorities, youth, small island developing States (SIDS)  and least developed countries (LDCs) its priority groups. We encourage UNESCO to give focused attention to these  priorities in order to obtain transformative results. Mr President, Seychelles renews its commitment to UNESCO. We  believe that the Organization is more than ever needed for the promotion of peace, stability and development; for  international understanding, solidarity and development. We thank you.
48. The President:   Thank you very much, Your Excellency. Ladies and gentlemen, this was our last speaker for the day. We had a  very productive day today and I wish to thank you all for your wisdom in speaking but at the same time your patience in  listening. The plenary will convene again tomorrow morning at 10 a.m. I am appealing to you all to be here at least by
9.45 a.m., because tomorrow’s list of speakers will be fairly long. I wish you a pleasant evening. This meeting is now  adjourned. Thank you very much.  The meeting rose at 5.52 p.m.  La séance est levée à 17 h 52  Se levanta la sesión a las 17.52  Заседание закрывается в 17.52  الظهربعد  ٥,٥٢رفعت اسلسة يف الساعة    会议于 17 时 52 分结束