1.1 The President:   Excellencies, ladies and gentlemen, today is the only day that we will be starting our session without having to  suspend for five minutes and I am really pleased that all of us are here. But once again, our sincere apologies for these  delays. I have the pleasure of declaring open the twelfth plenary meeting of the General Conference. You surely know  that this evening we will announce the results of the Executive Board elections. Before we do, I would like to inform you  that the Bureau of the General Conference, at its third meeting yesterday morning, heard progress reports on the work of  the commissions and committees and I am pleased to inform you that that work is fully on schedule. Let us now turn to  the highlight of today’s meeting.
1.2 The election of Members of the Executive Board took place this morning from 9 a.m. to 2 p.m. in Room V, under  the supervision of His Excellency, Mr Michael Worbs, Chairperson of the Nominations Committee. I now invite him to  present the results of today’s ballot starting, of course, with Group I. Your Excellency, you have the floor.   Election of Members of the Executive Board  Élection de membres du Conseil exécutif  Elección de los Miembros del Consejo Ejecutivo  Выборы членов Исполнительного совета   انتخاب أعضاء في المجلس التنفيذي 选举执行局委员
2.1 Mr Worbs (Chairperson of the Nominations Committee):   Thank you, Mr President. Excellencies, ladies and gentlemen, I would first like to thank you for entrusting me  with the task of reporting to the plenary of the General Conference the detailed results of the election of the Members of  the Executive Board. The election took place today in conformity with the Rules of Procedure of the General Conference  and, I might add, with a considerable turnout. I am grateful to the many people who made it possible, especially to the  Ambassador of El Salvador, who was overseeing the election, and I shall use my oral report to the forthcoming plenary  session of the General Conference to express my thanks. Ladies and gentlemen, the number of Member States entitled  to vote in the present session of the General Conference is 186. I shall now read out by electoral group the detailed  results of today’s ballot for the election of Members of the Executive Board.
2.2 Group I, in which there are six seats to be filled. Absent: 3. Abstentions: 0. Invalid ballot papers: 0. Names of the  Member States candidates and the number of votes secured by each of them in descending order of the number of votes:  Greece: 165; Italy: 165; Spain: 164; France: 163; United States of America: 158; and United Kingdom of Great Britain  and Northern Ireland: 156. The floor is with you, Mr President.
3. The President:    Thank you very much Mr Worbs. I therefore declare the following six Member States from Group I elected  Members of the Executive Board: France, Greece,  Italy, Spain, United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland  and United States of America. We shall now turn to Group II. Your Excellency, you have the floor.
4. Mr Worbs (Chairperson of the Nominations Committee):   Thank you, Mr President. Group II, in which there are four seats to be filled. Absent: 3. Abstentions: 0. Invalid  ballot papers: 1. I will now read the names of the Member States candidates and the number of votes secured by each of  them in descending order of the number of votes. Lithuania: 171; Slovenia: 167; Russian Federation: 162; and  Serbia: 161. Mr President, please, you have the floor.
5. The President:    Thank you very much, sir. I therefore declare the following Member States from Group II elected Members of the  Executive Board: Lithuania, Russian Federation, Serbia and Slovenia. We shall now turn to Group III. Your Excellency,  you have the floor.
6. Mr Worbs (Chairperson of the Nominations Committee):   Thank you, Mr President. Group III, in which there are five seats to be filled. Absent: 3. Abstentions: 0. Invalid  ballot papers: 0. Again, I will read the names of the Member States candidates and the number of votes secured by each  of them in descending order of the number of votes: Brazil: 168; Mexico: 158; Paraguay: 158; Nicaragua: 152; and  Haiti: 150. Thank you.
7. The President:    Thank you very much, Your Excellency. I therefore declare the following five Member States from Group III  elected Members of the Executive Board: Brazil, Haiti, Mexico, Nicaragua and Paraguay. We now turn to Group IV,  which had six seats to be filled. Excellency, you have the floor.
8. Mr Worbs (Chairperson of the Nominations Committee):   Thank you, Mr President. Group IV, in which there are six seats to be filled. Absent: 3. Abstentions: 0. Invalid  ballot papers: 0. Again, I will read out the names of the Member States candidates and the number of votes secured by  each of them in descending order of the number of votes. Malaysia: 165; Viet Nam: 156; Sri Lanka: 149; Republic of  Korea: 137; Pakistan: 135; Islamic Republic of Iran: 128; Samoa: 101; and Afghanistan: 62. Thank you, Mr President.
9. The President:    Thank you very much, Your Excellency. I therefore declare the following six Member States elected Members of  the Executive Board: Islamic Republic of Iran, Malaysia, Pakistan, Republic of Korea, Sri Lanka and Viet Nam. We shall  now turn to Group V(a). Your Excellency, you have the floor.
10. Mr Worbs (Chairperson of the Nominations Committee):   Thank you, Mr President. There are seven seats to be filled for Group V(a). Absent: 3. Abstentions: 2. Invalid  ballot papers: 2. Again, I will read out the names of the Member States candidates and the number of votes secured by  each of them in descending order of the number of votes. South Africa: 139; Senegal: 135; Nigeria: 132; Kenya: 119;  Côte d’Ivoire: 101; Ghana: 101; Cameroon: 100; Rwanda: 99; Ethiopia: 82; Botswana: 80; Niger: 60; and Equatorial  Guinea: 48. Mr President, thank you.
11. The President:    Thank you very much, Your Excellency. I therefore declare the following seven Member States from Group V(a)  elected Members of the Executive Board: Cameroon, Côte d’Ivoire, Ghana, Kenya, Nigeria, Senegal and South Africa.  Finally, we turn to Group V(b). Your Excellency, you have the floor.
12. Mr Worbs (Chairperson of the Nominations Committee):   Thank you once more, Mr President. Group V(b) has four seats to be filled. Absent: 3. Abstentions: 0. Invalid  ballot papers: 2. For the last time, I will again read the names of the Member States candidates and the number of votes  secured by each of them in descending order of the number of votes. Oman: 142; Lebanon: 131; Qatar: 121; Saudi  Arabia: 97; Sudan: 97; Iraq: 57; and Yemen: 30. Since two countries, Saudi Arabia and Sudan, have obtained the same  number of votes, in accordance with Rule 95 of the Rules of Procedure of the General Conference there shall be a  second secret ballot restricted to those two candidates. The ballot will take place on Friday 13 November in Room IV at
10 a.m. Thank you, Mr President.
13.1 The President:    Thank you very much, Your Excellency. I therefore declare the following three Member States from Group V(b)  elected Members of the Executive Board: Oman, Lebanon and Qatar. As you have just heard, there will be a second  round of voting for the last remaining seat between the two countries that were tied for fourth place. Excellencies, ladies  and gentlemen, we have come to the end of our session but before we part, let me say a few words of acknowledgement.
13.2 First of all, I would like to thank the Member States for the high level of participation in this electoral exercise  which shows the vitality of our democratic process. As you know, one country equals one vote in UNESCO and every  vote is important. I am sure that this strong participation will be maintained in tomorrow’s elections, which are as  important as the one we held today. Indeed, the various intergovernmental commissions, committees and other  subsidiary organs of the General Conference whose membership you will be renewing also participate in no small way in  the implementation of the various programmes of our Organization. I also wish to thank the Member States who  presented candidatures to renew their membership of the Executive Board, thereby showing their strong interest in the  work of our Organization and the universal values that it promotes. Let me also thank the electoral groups for their efforts  in finding consensus, whenever possible, with a clean slate of candidates.
13.3 In closing, I warmly congratulate all newly elected Members of the Executive Board. On behalf of all of you, as  Member States, I wish to thank His Excellency, Mr Michael Worbs, Chairperson of the Nominations Committee, for the  good work of the Committee which skilfully supervised the election process. I also wish to express my appreciation to the  six tellers. We appreciated the time and effort devoted to the process.
13.3 I will now give the floor to the Secretary to provide you with some information concerning the 198th session of  the Executive Board, which will meet on 20 November 2015. Mr Secretary, you have the floor.
14. The Secretary:   Thank you Mr President. The 198th session of the Executive Board, with its new membership for 2015-2017, will  meet on Friday, 20 November at 10 a.m. and 3 p.m. in Room X. At that one-day session, the Executive Board will be  required, among other things, to establish its Bureau and, for that purpose, to elect its Chair and six Vice-Chairs, as well  as the chairs of its commissions and committees, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the Executive Board. The  Board will also designate the Member States that will constitute the Special Committee (SP): 18 members, three per  electoral group; the Committee on Conventions and Recommendations (CR): 13 members, five per electoral group; and  the Committee on Non-Governmental Partners (NGP): 24 members, four per electoral group. The Secretariat would be  most grateful if you could kindly consult your respective groups and inform us as soon as possible – as we hardly have a  week before that Board session – of your proposals concerning the composition of the Bureau. It would be appreciated if  they could be provided by noon next Wednesday, which is also the closing day of this session of the General Conference.  The usual invitation letter for the Board session will be sent out this evening. Thank you, Mr President.
15. The President:   Thank you very much, Mr Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, we have thus finished our work for today. Plenary  will reconvene this Friday 13 November 2015, at 3 p.m. for the examination and adoption of the reports. I wish you a  pleasant evening. The meeting is now adjourned.  The meeting rose at 6.40 p.m.  La séance est levée à 18 h 40   Se levanta la sesión a las 18.40  Заседание закрывается в 18.40  الظهربعد  ٦,٤٠رفعت اسلسة يف الساعة    会议于 18 时 40 分结束