1.1 The President:   Thank you very much. Good morning ladies and gentlemen, I declare open the fourteenth plenary meeting of the  General Conference which will be devoted to the Leaders’ Forum. Your Excellencies, heads of State, heads of  delegations, ladies and gentlemen, dear friends. I am certain that all 195 Member States of UNESCO share our  sentiment of shock and deep sadness in the aftermath of the atrocious terrorist attacks which struck this beautiful city on  Friday evening. Violent extremists targeted the most beautiful things – girls and boys enjoying a rock concert, families  watching a friendly football match, young couples having dinner in a street café, or just strolling down the beautiful  streets of Paris.
1.2 Over 100 people have been shot dead, deprived of their future and deprived of their dreams. Hundreds of  millions of men and women around the world are in a state of shock. These horrible events show clearly just how far  away we are, as a civilization, from the ideals of perpetual peace, of a world in harmony, a world where dialogue prevails.  They also show, very clearly, what UNESCO still needs to do, and how relevant UNESCO’s mandate remains. As I said  in my statement of solidarity with France: terrorists were not born terrorists, but have become so. Human beings are not  born evil but are oriented in evil ways.
1.3 Excellencies, in order to pay respect to the innocent victims of terrorism in Paris and around the world, I propose  to hold a minute of silence at 12 p.m. later today. This is the moment when the whole host country will come to a  standstill to send a message of peace and pay tribute to the memory of the fallen innocent victims. The General  Conference of UNESCO will thus show its solidarity with the French people and their Government. Before I invite our  distinguished speakers this morning, please allow me to say a few words of welcome at this Leaders’ Forum of the  General Conference of UNESCO.  Address by the President of the 38th session of the General Conference  Allocution du Président de la 38e session de la Conférence générale  Discurso pronunciado por el Presidente de la 38ª reunión de la Conferencia General  Выступление Председателя 38-й сессии Генеральной конференции    كلمة رةيس الدورة الثامنة والثالثين للمؤتمر العام 大会第三十八届会议主席致辞
2.1 The President:   Your Excellencies, heads of State and government, Madam Director-General of UNESCO, Honourable Ministers  and heads of delegations, Your Excellencies, Ambassadors and Permanent Delegates to UNESCO, members of the  media, ladies and gentlemen. I have the honour, as President of the 38th session of the General Conference, to open  this special and historic session of the Leaders Forum.
2.2 First and foremost, I wish to express, on behalf of the UNESCO Member States, our deepest sympathy for the  victims of the spate of terrorist attacks over the past week – stretching from Lebanon, to Iraq, and in particular the deadly  attacks last Friday in Paris, France. In particular, I would like to express our sincere condolences and profound solidarity  to the French people and their Government, as well as the other nations that lost nationals during the attacks.
2.3 Notwithstanding the tragic events of last Friday, we are gathered here today, as nations under the banner of  UNESCO, on our 70th anniversary, to proclaim to the world that the human spirit shall never be suppressed. That  humanity’s yearning for peace, tolerance and mutual coexistence must be resurrected. We therefore reaffirm the strength  of the United Nations’ solidarity, as the attacks in Paris brought new dimensions not only to the veracity of anti-terrorism  interventions in this country, but also to the worldwide response that they will trigger.
2.4 Clearly, no single country or organization can address today’s complex challenges alone. Collective and  synchronized global action is called for. We need therefore, to embrace multilateralism and adopt joint actions to address  complex challenges facing humanity today.
2.5 Seventy years after the birth of UNESCO and the United Nations, expectations are high among Member States  and the peoples of the world for our Organization to deliver. The world is currently facing many challenges, including  extremism and radicalization, extreme poverty and unprecedented human-made and natural disasters. In the field of  education, the sciences, culture and communication, UNESCO’s mandate and actions are urgently needed to address  complex issues of our times and rescue the fate of humanity as a whole.
2.6 Today, we celebrate the accomplishments of the Organization, however conscious of the imperative to revive  the power of the inspiration that guided the founding fathers and mothers of our Organization. We need to rekindle their  sense of hope and vision for an equitable and sustainable future. This is the expectation of our peoples as enunciated in  the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development.
2.7 Our Organization has demonstrated its vast experience in education, from planning to quality, from education for
307  sustainable development to education for global citizenship and education to fight extremism. UNESCO and its Member  States should continue to promote equitable quality education as the key to building a fairer, more peaceful and more  harmonious world.
2.8 UNESCO has been strengthening the scientific basis for the protection of the environment and for the  sustainable use of natural resources while enhancing the dissemination of scientific knowledge worldwide. We should  continue to promote the role of the sciences to understand the dynamics of our environment, and to develop  technologies to enhance our health and quality of life.
2.9 UNESCO has been fostering the production of knowledge on social transformations and enhancing the  relevance of social science research to influence evidence-based policy-making and development. The Organization  should continue to pursue its commitment to identify new approaches to social challenges and issues, particularly the  growing inequalities.
2.10 UNESCO has been a key player in promoting the role of culture as an enabler and a driver of sustainable  development, a role now duly recognized by the international community. We should continue to promote heritage  preservation and protection and the development of creative industries to contribute to inclusive and social development.
2.11 UNESCO has been committed to promoting freedom of expression and an open knowledge society. We should  continue to do so in order to bridge the digital divide and to facilitate free flow of information and ideas and ensure  access to information and knowledge. UNESCO, as a laboratory of ideas operating at the global, regional, national and  local levels, should consistently provide leadership in the Organization’s core functions: it must serve as a forum for  international cooperation and intellectual exchange.
2.12 UNESCO’s convening power should be maximized and should continue to be a reference worldwide. UNESCO  must keep abreast with emerging issues and stimulate research and actions. Our Organization is both a technical and  operational United Nations agency, which cannot become an agency that only deals with symbols, but also with very  practical, operational results on the ground, to the benefit of the nations, communities and individuals, who are the prime  beneficiaries of our operations.
2.13 UNESCO, founded from the rubble of the Second World War in response to a yearning for universal peace and  cooperation, has been proclaiming its resolute belief in the dignity and value of each human being without any distinction,  and in equality between woman and man. We have an eternal obligation to honour and respect that yearning. As we turn  to the future, we must keep that promise, and keep on realising it in our lifetimes.
2.14 Excellencies, ladies and gentlemen, Kalu Ndukwe Kalu once said: “The things you do for yourself are gone  when you are gone, but the things you do for others remain as your legacy”. Let us pursue the vision of UNESCO’s  founding fathers and mothers 70 years ago. Let us pursue and create a lasting legacy for future generations. Let us  pursue equitable and sustainable human development. Let us pledge to pursue the ideals of our Organization for the  good of humanity. On that note, once again, Your Excellencies, welcome and thank you very much for having joined us  this morning. I thank you for your attention.
2.15 I now have the pleasure of inviting the Director-General to offer her message of welcome. Madam Director- General, you now have the floor.
3.1 The Director-General:   Mr President of the General Conference, Mr Chair of the Executive Board, Excellencies, heads of State and  government, Ministers, Ambassadors, ladies and gentlemen. One hundred and twenty-nine people killed in cold blood.  Three hundred and fifty-two people wounded – a city and a country in a state of emergency, a world shocked. The  results of the barbarous terrorist attacks on 13 November in Paris are tragic and they reached across the globe.
3.2 On behalf of UNESCO and in my own name, I wish to renew my sympathy, solidarity and condolences with the  people of France and express our support to the families and friends of those who lost their lives. This criminal, barbaric  act of violence affects us all. It attacks what is most dear to us: freedom, human rights, our sense of belonging, our very  sense of humanity. Yes, ladies and gentlemen, this is an attack against the humanity we share and this is why it is so  horrendous. We can never accept this. We can never give in. We must stand together with France, with all women and  men, with all societies. And we must be clear – these attacks oppose violent extremists and those who believe in living  together; they oppose those who disseminate hatred and division and those who believe in compassion, tolerance,  diversity and unity.
3.3 This violence reminds us of the vulnerability of all societies today. It reminds us also of our resilience. It reminds  us of the unshakeable power of our aspiration for peace. This aspiration took form 70 years ago on precisely this day,
16 November 1945, at the Institute of Civil Engineers in London. UNESCO was born in the wake of a war, seeking  human rights and dignity as never before in reaction to violent extremism, racism and anti-Semitism. This Organization  was born from the conviction that we needed new ways to build peace through solidarity, through respect and mutual  understanding, respect for human rights and human dignity through education, culture, the sciences, communication and  information.
3.4 Today, we must counter a threat that is fueled by an exclusive vision of the world and identity based on false  interpretations of faith, hatred of others, ignorance and intolerance. This requires soft power as well. This is why we must  never tire in repeating the opening lines of the UNESCO Constitution: “Since wars begin in the minds of men, it is in the  minds of men [and women] that the defenses of peace must be constructed”. This is the DNA of our Organization and  this has never been so urgent, so relevant or so important.
308  (The Director-General continues in French)
3.5 Mesdames et Messieurs, cela n’a de sens de nous réunir aujourd’hui que si nous savons transformer notre  douleur en une force collective pour la paix. Si nous savons nous projeter à long terme et développer ensemble une  réponse adaptée à ce danger mortel qui ne connaît pas de frontières et peut frapper n’importe où.
3.6 L’extrémisme violent a tué cette année à Paris, à Copenhague, à Ankara, à Tunis, à Beyrouth, dans le ciel du  Sinaï et ailleurs. Dans leur écrasante majorité, les victimes des attentats de vendredi étaient jeunes, entre 20 et 30 ans.  Ils ont été tués par d’autres jeunes, âgés eux aussi de 20 à 30 ans. Comment comprendre cette jeunesse qui cède à  l’idéologie de la mort ? Comment répondre à ce mépris de la vie humaine ? L’UNESCO a une responsabilité particulière  à assumer, une mission particulière à remplir au sein du système des Nations Unies. Il faut revenir aux sources de la  radicalisation, combattre l’extrémisme là où il prend ses racines – dans l’esprit des jeunes, à l’école ; renforcer  l’éducation aux droits humains par un effort mondial sans précédent pour accompagner les professeurs ; revoir les  manuels, transmettre les valeurs dans la classe et au-dehors – et c’est possible si nous le décidons ; enseigner la  diversité des cultures, l’histoire des religions ; ne pas laisser les enfants grandir dans l’ignorance et dans les préjugés ;  refonder notre logiciel de transmission d’une culture de la paix ; équiper les gens des outils et de l’esprit critique  indispensables pour résister à la propagande qui se déverse sur l’Internet et ailleurs ; leur apprendre à utiliser les  médias ; savoir repérer les signes avant-coureurs de la radicalisation ; s’appuyer beaucoup plus fortement sur tous les  relais de la jeunesse, les familles, les artistes, les nouveaux médias, au-delà des institutions traditionnelles ; apporter  l’éducation dans les zones de conflit, dans les camps de réfugiés, où des millions d’adolescents laissés à eux-mêmes  sont vulnérables aux fausses promesses des groupes armés qui se nourrissent du sang de la jeunesse.
3.7 Le fanatisme, « cette peste de l’âme » dont parle Voltaire, doit se combattre par toutes les armes de l’esprit, par  les forces de la raison. Et c’est notre devoir de défaire l’extrémisme violent, comme les fondateurs de cette Maison ont  su tracer un cap pour empêcher le retour du totalitarisme génocidaire nazi. C’est aussi pour cette raison que nous avons  souhaité maintenir ce Forum des dirigeants en accord avec la France, notre État hôte, en hommage aux victimes, en  hommage au sang-froid des citoyens ordinaires qui témoignent de leur volonté de rester debout. Et c’est déjà une  réponse définitive à l’idéologie mortifère des extrémistes. Cette force-là doit s’exprimer autrement que dans des marches  solennelles et des gerbes de fleurs. Nous avons tous un rôle à jouer pour faire entendre la voix de la vie, de la pensée,  de la culture, des droits de l’homme, de l’esprit libre des êtres humains, et les dirigeants réunis aujourd’hui à l’UNESCO  ont marqué, par leur présence, leur volonté d’y contribuer. Je vous remercie.
4. The President:   Thank you very much, Madam Director-General, for your very inspiring words. Excellencies, ladies and  gentlemen, our first speaker this morning is His Excellency, Mr Rosen Plevneliev, President of Bulgaria.
5.1 Mr Plevneliev (President of Bulgaria):   Mr President of the General Conference, Mr Chair of the Executive Board, Madam Director-General,  Excellencies, ladies and gentlemen. Today, we were supposed to gather here on a joyous occasion, the 70th  anniversary of the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization (UNESCO). Sadly, the agenda has  changed.
5.2 On 13 November, Paris, the city of light, went dark. Paris, the city of music and laughter, fell silent. Shock and  terror reigned on the streets. More than 100 innocent people lost their lives in deadly terrorist attacks. But Parisians are  people who enjoy and celebrate life. Parisians are masters of their souls. Parisians cherish the freedom of being  themselves, in choosing their friends, regardless of the colour of their skin, religion, culture or origin. Liberté, égalité et  fraternité are the very foundation of their and our way of life. We all choose the world heritage and the world culture to be  shared, cherished and celebrated as Parisians do. The morning after the attacks, the people of Paris and the world went  on the streets, saying firmly “no” to fear, refusing to change who we are and what we believe in. We all choose life,  because we are all Parisians. We all choose light, we all choose freedom and joy because we are all Parisians.
5.3 Dear friends, terrorist attacks all over the world have shown that violent extremism transcends national borders.  No one is immune and no one is safe. It is time to act together and address the causes for terrorism not just the  consequences. No one on our planet is born a terrorist. Terrorists are created. Social exclusion, inequality and lack of  access to basic human rights are what fuels hatred and division. There are many young people that have no jobs, no  perspective and no goal in life. Radicalism is just a step away. Today’s social integration policies need to be improved  and become more inclusive. Marginalization has no ethnicity, no religion or skin colour. We must adopt policies and  measures that would prevent the radicalization of marginalized groups and ensure their better integration in local  societies through education, dialogue and active citizenship. Marginalization is what allows extremist and radical groups  such as Daesh to penetrate into our societies and strike where it hurts the most – our values, our way of life.  Marginalization contributes to ongoing conflicts in different parts of the world and fuels the spread of radical ideologies.
5.4 Terrorist fighters will be certainly defeated by the international antiterrorist coalition. But the ideology of terrorism  cannot be defeated by weapons. It could be defeated by better ideas, by education and tolerant societies. Only by putting  aside short-sighted national interests and by uniting against this global menace, will we win this fight. No doubt we will  win the war against terrorism. But most importantly we need to win the peace in the conflict areas. We need a  comprehensive, multilateral and all-inclusive approach. Close cooperation is needed not only between governments and  law enforcement institutions, but also with civil society, local communities, media and private sector to ensure durable  and viable solutions. The international community has to upgrade the United Nations Global Counter-Terrorism Strategy  and once again reaffirm its commitment to the fight against terrorism. An urgent adoption of a new results-oriented  roadmap is of utmost importance. It is time we invest more efforts in institution building, the rule of law and respect for  human rights. Providing an economic perspective on site for conflict-affected countries and societies is of primary
309  importance. This is the responsibility of the entire international community. Having recovered from two world wars, united  Europe has the experience and the capacity to be the leader of this international effort.
5.5 Our democracies certainly are not perfect. They do not always function well. But it is democracy that makes us  strong, that makes us free and human. Our strength is unity and shared values. Our weapon is integration. Only  integration makes human progress possible. We need more, not less integration in Europe today. The modern history of  Europe is a history of cooperation, of diplomacy and of technological progress, not of wars and conflicts. The modern  history of Europe gives a unique example to the world that peace is only possible when nations reach such a level of  integration and cooperation that makes future war impossible. Nations are strong not because of their armies and  weapons, but because of their talent and their culture. The success of a country is not measured by territory and moving  borders, but by the success of ordinary people. In this difficult moment we certainly need a strong political leadership and  active citizens. We need leaders who understand that differences should be resolved peacefully. We need leaders who  support and upgrade the world order and do not destroy the international order. We want to see principles, not interests  to prevail on the global stage.
5.6 Dear friends, UNESCO is a unique organization and has an important role to play. We have all the right tools - promoting cultural and religious dialogue, preventing youth radicalization through education for all, sharing scientific  knowledge for the better future of humanity. For 70 years “building peace in the minds of men and women” has been  UNESCO’s mission; the “diffusion of culture, and the education of humanity for justice and liberty and peace” its raison  d’être. Throughout the years, this unique Organization has become the leading international forum dedicated to the  protection of humankind’s spiritual and cultural heritage. It has helped address numerous challenges, throughout the  world, through dialogue and respect for different opinions. It has helped and it has solved many of the world’s problems.  It has taught us to respect and promote human dignity and equality and to cherish cultural and religious diversity. It is  time to invest more in and support more the unique role of UNESCO and give a boost to its resources to educate, to  share more cultural diversity in order to ensure a just and sustainable future for everyone.
5.7 The deliberate destruction of world cultural heritage sites by terrorists is a severe blow to human civilization. Let  us pay a special tribute to UNESCO for its tremendous work in protecting cultural heritage in Iraq, the Syrian Arab  Republic and all over the world, and fighting globally the trafficking of cultural artifacts.
5.8 Dear friends, five years since its beginning, the conflict in the Syrian Arab Republic continues to represent a  major threat to international peace and stability. The ongoing hostilities in several conflict zones have forced millions to  leave their homes on a perilous journey to safety. Instead of being in the classroom, hundreds of thousands of children  are crossing the Mediterranean, putting their future on the line. Hundreds of thousands are currently at Europe’s  doorstep asking for nothing else but the right to live in peace and dignity.
5.9 Unfortunately, nationalism and populism in Europe is on the rise again. Feeding on people’s fears, nationalistic  parties are currently growing stronger, promoting intolerance, hatred and xenophobia. Let us not allow them to use last  Friday’s attacks for short-term political goals. Closing our borders to those who are different from us, whose life is in  danger, and forgetting Europe’s core values will be the biggest mistake of united Europe. If we do that, it means terrorists  have won. It means that Paris will never be the same – a city of bright lights, of tolerance, of mutual respect and  multicultural dialogue. Modern patriotism, not nationalism, is needed now. A wise and respected president, President de  Gaulle once said: “Patriots are those who love their country, nationalists are those who hate that of others”.
5.10 Seventy years after the end of the Second World War, we must not repeat the mistakes of the past. The Second  World War was made possible by the “suspicion and mistrust between the peoples of the world”, “by the denial of the  democratic principles of dignity, equality and mutual respect”. We must never again allow such a tragedy. History needs  to be remembered and told accurately. Media and education institutions share a responsibility for upholding the culture of  remembrance and having it be an integral part of the global perspective of young generations. UNESCO plays and will  play a crucial role for that.
5.11 Dear friends, let us never forget what means to be a Parisian – freedom to be who you are and the shared belief  that we are all born equal to live as brothers and sisters. We must not forget that in every society there is always  someone who would prefer the sword to the pen, that there will be always fanatics who will try to kill innocent people in  the name of God. But a brutal murder has nothing to do with God. Because God was wise enough not to allow anyone to  dominate over the others. We are all born equal. We are born in peace, to live in peace and to work for peace. God is  teaching us that every life matters, no matter if Muslim, Christian, Buddhist, Jew or other.
5.12 The events that shocked Paris caused a wave of solidarity. Together, united, the citizens of Europe and all over  the world openly stated that they would stand to protect human life, dignity and freedom. So, dear friends, let us support  every initiative against fanaticism, xenophobia and antisemitism. Sometimes even the smallest effort is enough to drive  away the darkness and bring back hope and light. Even the worst of evil will be stopped when people with different  religious, ethnic, cultural and social backgrounds, unite and firmly say “no” to hatred. We are impressed by the words of  the young Muslim, Lassana Bathily, who saved several innocent lives during the hostage crisis earlier this year in Paris:  “We are brothers. It is not a question of Jews, Christians or Muslims. We are all in the same boat and we have to help  one another”.
5.13 Today, just across from my office in the very heart of the Bulgarian capital, Sofia, there are temples of different  religions – a well preserved fourth-century early Orthodox Church, an Orthodox cathedral, a Catholic cathedral, a  mosque and a synagogue. They have all co-existed peacefully for centuries. This is a great example of wisdom, of  tolerance, and respect for diversity. Multiculturalism works in Paris, works in Sofia, works in Europe and works in the  world. Let us all, politicians and civil society, never forget that it is up to all of us to shape the world we live in. And let us
310  not stop making it a better place.
5.14 The only way that brings us forward is through reconciliation and understanding, through tolerance and respect  for diversity. Aggression, nationalism and populism do not bring any good future. Let us choose the civilized way, let us  choose the European way and let us choose the democratic way. Let us give a positive example to the world. Let us  never tolerate injustice. Let us never stop investing our hearts and energy into creating a world where cultural diversity is  treasured, tolerance is shared, and humanism is held high. This will be the best way to commemorate the lost innocent  lives in terrorist attacks in Paris and all over the world. May they rest in peace!
6.1 The President:   Thank you very much, Your Excellency. On behalf of all Member States, I would like to thank you most sincerely  for your very enlightening and enriching speech.  We are, once again, humbled and honoured by your presence here this  morning. Thank you very much.
6.2 Your Excellencies, Mr Chair of the Executive Board, Madam Director-General, ladies and gentlemen. On behalf  of all Member States of UNESCO, I am honoured to welcome our next speaker, His Excellency, Mr Paul Biya, President  of Cameroon. President Biya is a respected African statesman who has been leading his country for the past four  decades, first as Prime Minister and then as President. During his tenure, relations between Cameroon and UNESCO  have strengthened significantly. UNESCO is a great partner of the Government of Cameroon in ensuring education,  access to information and communication tools and also in ensuring sustainable development to all. Ladies and  gentlemen, eight years ago almost to the day, President Biya was in this very room, addressing the 34th session of the  General Conference of UNESCO. His presence here today is yet another sign of the close relations that exist and that  will continue to exist between UNESCO and Cameroon. Mr President, we are humbled by your presence, and I now  have the distinct pleasure and privilege on behalf of the General Conference to invite you to take the floor.
7.1 M. Biya (Président du Cameroun) :   Mesdames et Messieurs les chefs d’État et de délégation, Monsieur le Président de la Conférence générale,  Monsieur le Président du Conseil exécutif, Madame la Directrice générale, Mesdames, Messieurs, je voudrais tout  d’abord féliciter sincèrement Monsieur le Ministre Stanley Mutumba Simataa pour son élection à la présidence de cette
38e session de la Conférence générale.
7.2 Monsieur le Président de la Conférence générale, au moment où l’on célèbre les 70 ans de l’Organisation des  Nations Unies et des institutions spécialisées, dont l’UNESCO, je suis heureux de voir l’Afrique, à travers votre pays,  présider cette Conférence générale. Il s’agit là d’un symbole fort qui montre combien le monde continue de changer –  positivement. À cet extraordinaire changement, le système des Nations Unies – et l’UNESCO en particulier – a  beaucoup contribué, qu’il s’agisse du soutien à l’indépendance politique de notre continent, de l’affirmation de sa  personnalité ou de la préservation de sa culture. Ainsi, l’Afrique réhabilitée a fait son retour au sein de la communauté  des nations.
7.3 Malgré des siècles de souffrances et de subordination, l’Afrique n’a jamais cessé de croire et d’espérer en  l’homme. Elle a apporté à la communauté des nations son humanisme, fait de respect de la personne humaine et de sa  dignité, un humanisme marqué du sceau de la fraternité et de la solidarité. Ainsi, s’explique sa quête pour un nouvel  ordre mondial plus juste et plus solidaire. L’Afrique n’a eu aucune peine à faire siens les idéaux contenus dans la Charte  de l’Organisation des Nations Unies et l’Acte constitutif de l’UNESCO. Mon pays connaît d’expérience, Monsieur le  Président, le poids de votre charge. Il vous assure de son soutien.
7.4 Excellences, Mesdames, Messieurs, le Cameroun, qui est heureux de participer à la célébration du
70e anniversaire de l’UNESCO, voudrait par ma voix remercier vivement Mme Irina Bokova, Directrice générale de  l’UNESCO, pour son invitation. Je ressens comme un honneur le privilège de prendre la parole au cours de cette  session historique. Je commencerai par rappeler la relation particulière qui existe entre mon pays et l’UNESCO, et le  système des Nations Unies. À l’issue de la première guerre mondiale, le Cameroun a été placé sous mandat de la  Société des nations, et plus tard sous tutelle de l’ONU. C’est sous l’égide de celle-ci qu’il a poursuivi avec bonheur sa  marche vers l’indépendance. Le Cameroun se considère donc, à juste titre, comme pupille de l’ONU et de la  communauté internationale. Au sein de la vaste famille du système des Nations Unies, le Cameroun éprouve une  inclination particulière pour l’UNESCO. La raison en est simple. Pays pacifique et tolérant, peuple de populations  d’origines, de religions et de traditions culturelles différentes, il se reconnaît dans l’idéal humaniste de l’UNESCO, dont  l’objectif ultime est « l’épanouissement » de l’homme et l’harmonie entre les peuples.
7.5 Comme l’UNESCO, le Cameroun pense que nos différences, loin d’être un handicap, sont une source  d’enrichissement. Mon pays partage aussi cette vision de paix perpétuelle par laquelle s’ouvre l’Acte constitutif de notre  Organisation que je vais me permettre de citer : « Les guerres prenant naissance dans l’esprit des hommes, c’est dans  l’esprit des hommes que doivent être élevées les défenses de la paix ». L’harmonie et l’entente entre les peuples sont  intimement liées à la reconnaissance et au respect mutuel des différentes cultures ainsi qu’à leur dialogue. La diffusion  de l’éducation et du progrès des sciences ne peut qu’y contribuer. Fort heureusement, l’UNESCO se consacre depuis sa  création à la promotion de ces valeurs. En effet, là où la guerre montre son visage hideux, on peut en voir les  conséquences tragiques pour les populations et pour le patrimoine culturel de l’humanité. Ce qui se passe en  République arabe syrienne, en Iraq et au Mali l’illustre à suffisance.
7.6 Loin de nous décourager, ces exemples déplorables doivent, au contraire, nous renforcer dans notre  détermination à faire échec à ces idéologies funestes et rétrogrades. Mon propre pays, havre de stabilité, en fait  aujourd’hui la douloureuse expérience. Il subit depuis quelques années les attaques terroristes de Boko Haram. Cette  secte sème le deuil et la désolation dans les familles, cause des déplacements de populations et un afflux de réfugiés.
311  Elle perturbe la vie économique et sociale de la région de l’extrême-Nord de mon pays. Pire, cette nébuleuse, par son  intolérance, distille des germes de division à partir de considérations ethnico-religieuses. Elle s’attaque ainsi aux  fondements mêmes de notre pays : son unité. Le combat pour l’éradication de cette secte nous oblige à consacrer à  notre défense des ressources importantes, au détriment de l’amélioration des conditions de vie des Camerounais. La  mutualisation des moyens avec nos voisins, la mise en place d’une force multinationale mixte de l’Union africaine et  l’appui appréciable des puissances amies, dont la France, me laissent penser que nous viendrons à bout de cet ennemi  barbare.
7.7 C’est le lieu pour moi de rappeler qu’aucun pays n’est à l’abri des attaques terroristes. Ce qui vient de se passer  à Paris, le soir du 13 novembre, est particulièrement significatif. Le combat contre le terrorisme est le combat de toute  nation qui met le respect de la personne humaine et de sa vie au premier rang de ses valeurs. Ce combat incombe à  chaque nation. Il appartient à chaque nation d’y apporter sa contribution.
7.8 Excellences, Mesdames, Messieurs, au cours des décennies passées, le soutien de nos partenaires extérieurs  et des organisations internationales ne nous a pas manqué. Il nous a aidés, au fil du temps, à édifier une société  démocratique et à assurer notre développement. Notre ambition est d’atteindre l’émergence à l’horizon 2035. Au nombre  de nos partenaires, l’UNESCO occupe une place de choix. Je voudrais donc maintenant dire quelques mots sur notre  coopération avec celle-ci.
7.9 Dans le domaine de l’éducation, l’UNESCO a contribué à la mise en œuvre de grands projets, tels que la  promotion de l’éducation pour tous, la lutte contre l’analphabétisme, le renforcement des pédagogies, l’éducation à la  citoyenneté et la modernisation de notre système universitaire.
7.10 Dans le Secteur des sciences, l’UNESCO nous encourage dans l’amélioration de la gestion de l’environnement  et le fonctionnement du Centre national de microscience.
7.11 Pour ce qui est de la culture et de la communication, on peut évoquer, pour s’en féliciter, le renforcement des  capacités des acteurs culturels et l’amélioration de la gestion des aires protégées, ainsi que la promotion de l’accès à  l’information.
7.12 Cette brève énumération ne saurait être exhaustive tant sont importantes et diversifiées les réalisations de  l’UNESCO dans mon pays. Je dois également saluer l’implantation au Cameroun du siège sous-régional de l’UNESCO  pour l’Afrique centrale. Cette décision va assurément consolider son action dans notre sous-région.
7.13 En terminant, qu’il me soit permis d’exprimer ma haute appréciation du travail accompli par l’UNESCO au  Cameroun sous l’autorité de Mme Irina Bokova. Je tiens à l’en féliciter chaleureusement et à l’en remercier. Qu’elle  sache que sa visite dans mon pays l’an dernier reste gravée dans les mémoires. Je vous remercie.
8.1 The President:   Thank you very much, Your Excellency. On behalf of all Member States, I would like to thank you most sincerely  for your speech and for your expression of your country’s readiness to continue to cooperate with and support UNESCO  in areas under its mandate.
8.2 Your Excellencies, Mr Chair of the Executive Board, Madam Director-General, ladies and gentlemen. The next  speaker on our list is yet another distinguished leader, His Excellency, Mr Gjorge Ivanov, President of the former  Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia. President Ivanov was sworn in as the fourth democratically elected President of his  country in 2009 and re-elected in 2014. Before entering government service, President Ivanov had a distinguished  academic career as Head of the Political Studies Department and Vice Dean of the Iustinianus Primus Faculty of Law in  Skopje. President Ivanov believes strongly in the power of young people to transform our wealth. During his presidency,  he has established a number of programmes that enable young, talented and ambitious people to improve their skills,  develop their creativity and managerial capacities. He established the “Best Young Scientist” award as well as the  President’s School for Young Leaders which has provided new knowledge, experience and skills to hundreds of young  people. Your Excellency, we are very happy to welcome you this morning. I now have the pleasure and privilege on  behalf of the General Conference to invite you to address us. Your Excellency, you have the floor.
9.1 Mr Ivanov (President of the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia)   (address delivered in Macedonian; English text provided by the delegation):   Distinguished Director-General of UNESCO, Ms Bokova, Excellencies, ladies and gentlemen, as President of  the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, it is my honour to speak at this historic event celebrating an important  jubilee. The grand narrative of human history is marked by the clash of builders and destroyers, of creators and  annihilators, of artists and censors, of defenders and enemies of diversity, of those who transfer and those who forbid  knowledge. Today, in our era when global connectivity has reached unthinkable speed, volume and scope, we are all  witnesses, but also participants in the clash between global civilization and global chaos, between order and disorder.
9.2 For 70 years now, the United Nations and UNESCO have been at the centre of this clash. There are many  specialized agencies within the United Nations, dealing with issues related to the existential needs of humanity, such as  food, water, and the environment. However, UNESCO has placed its focus on things that, one might say, are not bare  necessities, but without which life would be difficult to bear. Why? Because one of the fundamental features of human life  is the profound need for meaning and belonging. And this feeling of belonging is not merely ethereal. Belonging is built  through education that introduces us to the world, through the people we communicate with, the music we enjoy, the art  we admire, the science that expands our horizons and everything else that defines our worldview. Cultural heritage helps  us in our search for sense and belonging in this time of new world disorder. By protecting cultural heritage, we simply  admit that the world does not start, nor will it finish with us.
9.3 Ladies and gentlemen, the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia belongs to the cultural mosaic of humanity  united in UNESCO. In UNESCO, we truly feel at home. Together we have achieved a great deal. I wish to underline just  a few examples. We are protecting and promoting the natural and cultural treasures of the Ohrid region. With its Neolithic  settlements, ancient fortresses, early Christian basilicas, Byzantine frescoes and icons, and Ottoman heritage, the Ohrid  region is an overview of millennia of living at a cultural crossroads in symbiosis with nature. We have introduced the  Feast of the Holy Forty Martyrs in Štip and the Kopachkata folk dance on the Representative List of the Intangible  Cultural Heritage of Humanity. In 2008, we opened the Regional Centre for the Digitization of Cultural Heritage in Skopje  with a view to sharing the treasures of southeast Europe with the world. In 2013, the Institute of Earthquake Engineering  and Engineering Seismology in Skopje became the only UNESCO institute dedicated to the protection of cultural  heritage against risks of major earthquakes.
9.4 We have celebrated many jubilees with UNESCO. We marked the 100th anniversary since the birth of the  mother of the twentieth century, Mother Teresa from Skopje. Together, we celebrated the 50th anniversary of the Struga  Poetry Evenings, one of the oldest poetry festivals in the world, which has also been the home of many Nobel laureates.  However, UNESCO was also there for us in some difficult moments, like in 2009 when the monastery Saint John  Bigorski caught fire. Together, we are fighting against trafficking of cultural artefacts.
9.5 As a Member of the Executive Board for the past four years, we have been consistent in our support to  strengthen the international role of UNESCO. We advocated work efficiency and stimulation of the intellectual and  material potential of the Organization. UNESCO is dedicated to the education of youth, and education is provided  through dialogue. Next year, in 2016, we will mark 1,100 years since the passing of the Slavic educator, Saint Clement of  Ohrid. This will be an opportunity to revert to the roots of Slavic literacy. This Macedonian initiative was supported by  Bulgaria, Poland and the Russian Federation. Together we will promote the work of this great saint and teacher whose  legacy has been enshrined in the Slavic languages spoken by 315 million people all over the world.
9.6 Dear participants, 11 centuries ago, the monastery Saint Naum of Ohrid was built on the Ohrid lakeshore. For  centuries, this Christian monastery has been a place where both Christians and Muslims praise God under one roof. And  it is not the only one – in Macedonia, there is a multitude of such multi-religious temples which are an expression of the  Macedonian model of co-existence, respect and acceptance of diversity. We see diversity not as a threat, but as a  potential source for enriching our culture and identity. Macedonia is not the only country with such heritage. The Balkans  are an abundantly rich civilization corridor connecting East and West, and North and South.
9.7 But, ladies and gentlemen, there is a serious danger that Macedonia might soon be one of the rare countries  offering such an example. Many spiritually and culturally rich regions are today in danger of being submerged in spiritual  and cultural poverty. Only three months ago, on 21 August 2015, ISIL destroyed such a monastery in the Syrian Arab  Republic. The Monastery of Saint Elian was not on the World Heritage List and rare were those outside of the Syrian  Arab Republic who knew about it. However, instead of a tourist attraction, this monastery was the thread that used to  bring local Christians and Muslims together. Today, this and many other similar spiritual centres in the Middle East are  only ruins. By ruining these holy places, what is also ruined is co-existence among religions.
9.8 Cultural heritage is so much more than a tourist attraction. It is the foundation upon which the entire human  civilization is built. Without that solid foundation, our new tangible and intangible works would be cast in quicksand and  would inevitably sink into the oblivion of time. In this global disorder, the irreversible destruction of heritage in the Middle  East is equal to undermining the very foundations of our human civilization. When the systematic destruction of entire  communities, their homes and temples began in the Middle East, the world did not show the least resistance.  We forgot  that it is not only theirs, but our past as well. Too mild in countering crimes, we are now bothered by the consequences of  those crimes.
9.9 We are now in the year 2015, establishing the agenda for sustainable development by reducing disaster risk and  climate change. But just as we have no alternative planet, we also have no alternative civilization or alternative past for  that matter. If we treat the past in such a way, then what kind of future might await us? With our indecisiveness and  irresponsibility, we deprive young generations of all of the things that we failed to protect.
9.10 Dear friends, in the same way that we are making a retrospective of the past seven years, future generations will  make a retrospective of our achievements. My dilemma is what our descendants will remember us for. If we continue  ignoring the destruction of heritage, then we shall only be remembered as indifferent egoists. And if we do not ignore  these barbaric acts, but keep our reactions declarative, then we will be nothing more than concerned hypocrites.  Indifferent egoists or concerned hypocrites – we must not allow either the former or the latter to become the legacy of our  generation. Not because of us, but because of our descendants, and not just because of the tangible value, but also the  intangible value, of cultural heritage, which goes hand-in-hand with the search for meaning and belonging.
9.11 Throughout history, there have been builders and destroyers, and it is not the first time that destroyers have had  their five minutes. When, 70 years ago, we established the United Nations and UNESCO, we promised that we should  never again be passive spectators of evil. And yet, destroyers seem to fall through the cracks again.
9.12 Ladies and gentlemen, where did we go off the rails and how did we find ourselves lost in this labyrinth? How did  we allow for this violence directed against the present, but also past and future generations? Led by the idea that “man is  the measure of all things”, we have made a wrong calculation. We have entered the race for progress and breakthroughs,  in parallel with the race for inequitable exploitation of resources; a race in which the only rule states that there are no  rules. We have embraced progress, but at the same time we have rejected tradition. We have become the victims of  chronological snobbery. We believe in the illusion that if something is old, then it surely must be wrong and bad; and if  new, then it must be true and good.
9.13 We have become the carriers of a global pandemic of a virus known as homo consumericus. We have tried to  build and develop our modern civilization without ethics. We have become virtuosos of political correctness. We try to  ease our conscience by claiming that we are tolerant, and forgetting that one tolerates what one must, but one respects  and accepts what one loves. We have marginalized religion, forgetting that the majority of people in the world believe in  the transcendental. We have separated freedoms and rights from duties and responsibilities. Where has all of this  brought us?
9.14 In the past decades, many global and regional organizations were unfortunately seduced by the idea that  religion is a passing fashion and thus decided to marginalize it. But not UNESCO. Many organizations demonized  religion as a reason for conflicts in the world. But not UNESCO. UNESCO rightly understood that the reasons behind  conflicts should not be sought in religion, but in the abuse of religion. For violence in the name of religion is violence  against religion itself.
9.15 Ladies and gentlemen, contrary to those who believed that the world is becoming increasingly secularized, we  see that the world is increasingly de-secularized, without being homogenized. And so, if the world is becoming more,  rather than less religious, then the remedy for religious violence cannot be sought in less religion, but in more  interreligious dialogue. UNESCO recognized this need in time. Therefore, when back in 2003 the former Yugoslav  Republic of Macedonia initiated the first Regional Forum of Dialogue among Civilizations, this was realized in  cooperation with UNESCO. This forum of leaders of southeast Europe helped us recall that no matter how different we  might be we are nevertheless part of the common Balkan cultural space. Regretfully, the dialogue disappeared when  most needed, when Europe is again relapsing into one of its old diseases, xenophobia – and not only Europe!  Intolerance, exclusion and racism in the world have increased manifold. Therefore, the need for dialogue has also  significantly increased.
9.16 This is why we intend to renew the dialogue among civilizations in cooperation with UNESCO. We will also  organize the Fourth World Conference on InterReligious and Intercivilizational Dialogue. As before, our efforts will be  guided by the conviction that dialogue among different religions and worldviews ends where their diversity begins. The  purpose of dialogue is not, and must not be, overcoming, but respecting and accepting diversity. This is the reason why  we strongly support the work of the United Nations Alliance of Civilizations.
9.17 This is especially important today, particularly for Europe, where an entire river of refugees and migrants is  headed, bearing their own ethnic, linguistic, religious and cultural diversity. The migrant and refugee crisis is at the same  time an opportunity to learn again how to live with our deepest religious and cultural differences. Education, culture and  science are vital to this endeavour.
9.18 Excellencies, some might ask how all of this is related to sustainable development. It is indeed, and in so many  ways. In order to achieve sustainable development, we need a holistic approach that will encompass funding for  development, disaster risk reduction and reaching a new climate agreement right here in Paris. All of this is unfeasible,  however, without building a culture of sustainability. And culture is built through education. UNESCO’s major project  dedicated to youth, Education 2030, will have a decisive role to play.
9.19 UNESCO is here to help us by protecting the monuments that remind us not only of our biggest triumphs, but  also of our biggest failures. Easter Island, Chichen Itza, and Angkor are warnings for the consequences of unsustainable  exploitation of resources. The tragedy in the Middle East reminds us that sustainable development is impossible without  peace, justice and order. For this, we need dialogue among religions and civilizations, or in other words, a dialogue  among people. Global and regional stakeholders included in the development agenda must learn how to find their way in  the complex world of religion and culture, instead of just ignoring or marginalizing their importance. In order to achieve  that, they need to learn from UNESCO.
9.20 However, UNESCO is facing serious challenges in this global disorder of ours. The first challenge is lack of well- deserved and necessary financial and political support. In conditions of economic crisis, the first to suffer are education,  culture and science projects. Without them, we will only incite the negative cycle. The second challenge is interference of  politics in the Organization. The lack of respect for international law made UNESCO collateral damage of global disorder  – and it is exactly this Organization that should help us restore order.
9.21 This year of celebration should be a wake-up call for all of us. The world needs UNESCO today more than ever  before. But UNESCO needs our countries as well. The way to help is to keep the hands of realpolitik off the Organization.  We will help by providing the deserved financial support necessary to successfully finalize the successful reforms of the  Organization. If not, then we will need decades to find our way out of the labyrinth we are lost in. UNESCO is our hope to  get back on the right track; to substitute exclusion with acceptance, and xenophobia with respect and acceptance of  diversity; to substitute monologue with dialogue of civilizations, and chronological snobbery with respect for the past. All  of this can be done with the help of UNESCO, the safeguard of humanity’s cultural DNA. Thank you.
10. The President:   Thank you very much, Your Excellency. On behalf of all Member States, I would like to thank you most sincerely  for your very inspiring speech. Excellencies, Mr Chair of the Executive Board, Madam Director-General, ladies and  gentlemen, the next distinguished speaker on our list is His Excellency, Mr Aguila Saleh Issa Gwaider, President of the  House of Representatives, and Acting Head of State of Libya. His Excellency, Mr Gwaider, is an experienced politician  who has been a Member of Parliament since 1991.Since becoming the Acting Head of State of Libya, Mr Gwaider has  strongly advocated for the need for national reconciliation and the initiation of a comprehensive dialogue for all Libyan  people in efforts to end hostilities in his country. Restoring security and stability in Libya is key to ensuring education for  all, safeguarding the country’s rich cultural heritage and making progress on the Sustainable Development Goals. Your
(11.1) M. Gwaider (Chef d’État par intérim de la Libye) (traduit de l’arabe) :   Au nom de Dieu, le Clément, le Miséricordieux. Monsieur le Président de la Conférence générale, Excellences,  Mesdames et Messieurs les chefs et membres de délégations, Votre Excellence Madame Irina Bokova, Directrice générale de  l’UNESCO, je dois tout d’abord exprimer mes plus sincères condoléances au Président, au Gouvernement et au peuple  français pour les victimes du terrorisme. Je condamne de la façon la plus sévère cet acte lâche qui a fait des douzaines de  tués et de blessés parmi les citoyens paisibles et innocents. Nous rappelons que nous combattons le terrorisme, la main dans  la main, par tous les moyens. Nous prions Dieu pour le prompt rétablissement des blessés et lui demandons d’accorder la  patience aux parents des victimes, ainsi que la paix et la sécurité au peuple français – que ceci soit la fin des tristesses.  Ensuite, permettez-moi, Excellences, d’exprimer tous mes remerciements à Mme Bokova pour nous avoir invités à assister à  cette célébration du soixante-dixième anniversaire de notre vénérable Organisation, l’UNESCO. Je suis extrêmement heureux  d’être avec vous aujourd’hui ; en même temps, j’ai la lourde responsabilité de vous faire part des préoccupations et des  souffrances du peuple libyen, vaillant et patient dans les circonstances difficiles que connaît actuellement notre pays. Je vous  exprime également ses espoirs et ses aspirations pour une vie libre, dans la sécurité et la dignité. Il est de mon devoir de vous  faire part de mon opinion sur les plus grandes questions qui préoccupent la communauté internationale, en particulier celles  qui relèvent des domaines de compétence de l’UNESCO.
(11.2) Mesdames et Messieurs, les objectifs globaux convenus par la communauté internationale, notamment les objectifs  de développement, constituent le point de départ des stratégies et des activités de l’UNESCO. De ce fait, l’expertise et les  capacités uniques de l’Organisation dans ses domaines de compétence que sont l’éducation, les sciences, la culture, la  communication et l’information, contribuent à la réalisation des objectifs d’édification de la paix, d’élimination de la pauvreté,  de développement durable et d’instauration du dialogue entre les cultures. Les priorités les plus importantes sont selon nous  l’égalité entre les sexes, l’assurance d’une éducation de qualité pour tous, l’action pour relever les défis sociaux et éthiques, le  renforcement de la coopération culturelle, et l’édification de sociétés du savoir inclusives grâce à l’information et à la  communication.
(11.3) Mesdames et Messieurs, le développement durable, économique, social, culturel et environnemental, requiert des  mécanismes efficaces de mise-en-œuvre, et en premier lieu la disponibilité des fonds nécessaires, notamment avec le respect  des engagements en matière d’aide, la création de véritables partenariats, la promotion du transfert de technologies, le  renforcement des capacités, ainsi que la coordination et la coopération au niveau international. Nous soulignons l’importance  de la diversité culturelle, du dialogue et de la culture de la paix, et nous réitérons la nécessité d’atteindre ces objectifs afin de  faire face aux défis. Nous espérons que l’UNESCO puisse jouer un rôle de premier plan aux niveaux international et régional  dans le cadre des Nations Unies et qu’elle puisse contribuer à la réforme de cette organisation, en plus des mesures qu’elle  doit prendre pour asseoir sa crédibilité et son efficacité. C’est grâce à l’action et à la coopération qu’il sera possible d’affronter  les défis et de définir les paramètres de l’UNESCO de façon beaucoup plus claire afin de répondre aux besoins de ce siècle. Il  est nécessaire de renforcer les liens entre l’éducation et la culture, comme nous y encouragent les chefs d’état et de  gouvernement africains, et de mettre à profit la science, la technologie et l’innovation pour parvenir à un développement  durable qui donne la priorité à l’élimination de la pauvreté, en accord avec les principes directeurs adoptés par la Conférence  de l’Union africaine à Addis-Abeba en 2007.
(11.4) Mesdames et Messieurs, le terrorisme d’al-Qaida et de Daesh a tout corrompu, a engendré des guerres civiles et a  fait de l’avenir de nos enfants l’otage du sang et de la destruction. Il est de notre devoir à tous d’unir nos forces pour tenter de  contrecarrer le terrorisme et de l’empêcher de se répandre. La communauté internationale a joué un rôle clé dans le soutien  au peuple libyen lors de la révolution du 17 février 2011. Nous pensons que la communauté internationale peut également  jouer un rôle de premier plan pour aider les autorités légitimes de mon pays à combattre le terrorisme. À cet égard, je  demande encore une fois que l’on lève l’interdiction d’armer l’armée libyenne afin que celle-ci puisse défendre le sol libyen et  les institutions de l’État, éliminer le terrorisme et en éviter la propagation aux autres pays. Le fait d’empêcher les armes de
316  parvenir aux terroristes de Daesh les empêche de renforcer leur présence et, par conséquent, de se développer en Libye et  de s’étendre au-delà de ses frontières, et de nuire à tout le monde.
(11.5) Mesdames et Messieurs, l’armée libyenne travaille de toutes ses forces et fait quotidiennement de grands sacrifices  afin d’éliminer le terrorisme et l’extrémisme qui ont détruit l’infrastructure du pays et ont conduit au déplacement de milliers de  gens à l’intérieur du pays et au-delà de ses frontières. Elle fait face à ces extrémistes avec bien moins d’armes que n’en  possèdent les terroristes. De cette tribune, j’appelle tous les pays à soutenir le peuple libyen en levant l’interdiction d’armer  l’armée libyenne afin d’éliminer le terrorisme et l’extrémisme et de les empêcher de traverser les mers et les déserts pour  s’étendre à d’autres pays.
(11.6) Mesdames et Messieurs, mon pays a déployé d’immenses efforts pour atteindre les objectifs de développement, et il  s’est efforcé de les inclure dans ses plans de développement, dont la mise en œuvre est rendue difficile par le manque de  stabilité politique et les dérives sécuritaires. Nous espérons un retour à la normalité en matière de sécurité et de stabilité dans  le pays afin que les autorités libyennes puissent élaborer un plan national à long terme qui soit en accord avec le plan de  développement durable.
(11.7) Mesdames et Messieurs, depuis la révolution du 17 février, mon pays connaît des circonstances graves et  exceptionnelles avec la transformation de la révolution en conflit armé, faisant émerger des groupes et milices armés hors-la- loi qui entravent la marche démocratique et s’emparent des ressources de l’État pour servir leurs intérêts régionaux. Les  groupes terroristes ont refusé les choix démocratiques du peuple libyen que représentent la Chambre des députés et le  gouvernement qui en découle. Ils sont entrés en conflit armé avec l’armée des autorités légitimes, ce qui a perturbé les efforts  visant à propager la démocratie et inculquer les principes de l’état de droit. Cette situation fait que beaucoup des ressources  de l’État ont été accaparées par les milices qui ont visé beaucoup de sites archéologiques, religieux et historiques, certains  ayant même été enlevés ou volés, ce qui constitue un véritable danger et a poussé les autorités archéologiques libyennes à  intenter des actions en justice auprès de tribunaux locaux et internationaux contre les agissements de ces groupes. L’impact  de ces groupes menace désormais la culture des Libyens qui se sont toujours, au cours de l’histoire, élevés contre la violence  et l’extrémisme. Les Libyens se retrouvent désormais confrontés à la culture de l’extrémisme et du terrorisme que tentent de  propager ces groupes qui s’efforcent d’inculquer aux jeunes une culture violente  et extrémiste qui rejette l’Autre et n’accepte  pas l’éducation moderne, qu’ils considèrent comme contraire à leurs idées extrémistes.
(11.8) Mesdames et Messieurs, la Libye, en tant que membre des Nations Unies ainsi que de toutes ses institutions et  organismes, dont l’UNESCO, attend de vous un soutien afin de propager une culture du dialogue et de la démocratie,  d’instaurer une éducation libre et moderne, et de contribuer à la préservation de son patrimoine culturel et archéologique. La  Libye a toujours été la patrie de la paix et de la sécurité, tout au long des années. Que représentent les vestiges des  civilisations grecque, romaine et byzantine disséminés dans diverses régions de la Libye sinon la preuve d’une histoire stable  dans cette partie du monde où se sont côtoyées toutes les religions et où toutes les différences entre elles se sont estompées ?
(10.9) Mesdames et Messieurs, les efforts des autorités libyennes pour combattre le terrorisme et sauver la Libye, ainsi  que le monde entier, de ses crimes sont entravés par un appui extérieur au terrorisme et le fait que le Conseil de sécurité de  l’ONU persiste à ne pas appliquer ses propres résolutions approuvant les demandes d’armement de l’armée.  Malheureusement, certains des membres permanents du Conseil de sécurité justifient cela en prétextant la nécessité d’éviter  un effet néfaste sur le dialogue politique, dont nous savons qu’il a conduit à la signature du projet d’accord par la Chambre  des députés, qui a fait de grandes concessions afin de trouver un terrain d’entente. Mais le Congrès national, dont le mandat  arrive à échéance, a refusé de signer. Cependant, ils continuent d’empêcher l’armement de l’armée, retardant potentiellement  une l’issue de ce combat et donnant aux groupes terroristes l’occasion de se procurer encore davantage d’armes.
(11.10) Mesdames et Messieurs, je ne peux omettre d’inviter la communauté internationale à se préoccuper davantage des  droits de l’homme et à concentrer ses efforts sur l’éducation de qualité, la santé, le soutien aux droits des femmes, ainsi que  l’aide apportée aux jeunes à travers des possibilités d’emploi et la participation aux programmes de développement, afin  d’obtenir le succès espéré.
(11.11) Mesdames et Messieurs, vous n’ignorez pas que le peuple palestinien reste confronté à une occupation illégale  depuis déjà plusieurs décennies. Encore aujourd’hui, du fait de l’occupation, le peuple palestinien est expulsé de ses foyers et  opprimé par tous les moyens, et se voit refuser le droit d’établir son propre État indépendant. C’est pourquoi nous renouvelons  notre appui et notre prise de position en faveur du vaillant peuple palestinien, et nous soutenons son droit d’établir son propre  État indépendant et souverain, avec Jérusalem comme capitale, ainsi que le droit des réfugiés de retourner dans leurs foyers.
(11.12) Mesdames et Messieurs, les circonstances actuelles en Libye entravent divers programmes que le Ministère de  l’éducation met actuellement en œuvre en coopération avec l’UNESCO. À cet égard, nous réaffirmons notre souhait de  relancer ces programmes dans les plus brefs délais, et nous prions l’Organisation d’apporter un soutien matériel efficace à  notre pays dans ces circonstances difficiles. Nous aimerions rappeler que le processus éducatif dans la Libye d’aujourd’hui et  de demain, ainsi que la défense du patrimoine culturel et archéologique, ne relèvent pas seulement des autorités libyennes,  mais également des organisations internationales comme l’UNESCO, qui œuvre pour la science et la recherche scientifique,  et contribue à l’obtention de succès utiles pour l’humanité et à la préservation du patrimoine culturel et archéologique de tous  les peuples. Merci, Monsieur le Président.
12.1 The President:   Thank you very much, Your Excellency. On behalf of all Member States, I would like to thank you most sincerely  for your speech and equally thank you once again for having honoured our invitation.  Your Excellencies, we are coming  close to 12 noon. We will pause here for a moment until the time comes for us to observe that minute of silence in  concert with the entire country, and thereafter we will continue to benefit from speeches that will be delivered by Her  Excellency, the President of Lithuania, and finally Her Excellency, the Minister of Human Resources Development of  India. Thank you very much. We will wait for that right time. And then I will invite all of us to observe that minute of  silence.
12.2 Excellencies, ladies and gentlemen, dear friends, it is now noon. The City of Paris and the entire nation of  France and peace-loving people throughout the world will pay tribute to the fallen victims of last Friday’s attack. I now  invite the General Conference to rise and hold a minute of silence.
317  The assembly observed one minute of silence in tribute to the victims of terrorism in France.
13. The President:   Excellencies, ladies and gentlemen, it is my honour and distinct pleasure to introduce our next distinguished  speaker, Her Excellency, Ms Dalia Grybauskaitė, President of the Republic of Lithuania. Her Excellency is a social  scientist and academic by background. She holds two doctoral degrees and was a lecturer for a number of years before  joining Lithuania’s Foreign Ministry. Her Excellency has served as Finance Minister of her country, as well as European  Union Commissioner for Financial Programming and Budget before being elected as the first woman President of  Lithuania. She is currently serving a second term. Your Excellency, I wish to warmly congratulate you on Lithuania’s  election to the Executive Board. We are honoured by your presence, and we are eager to hear your speech. Your  Excellency, you now have the floor.
14.1 Ms Grybauskaitė (President of Lithuania):   Mr President of the General Conference, Madam Director-General of UNESCO, ladies and gentlemen, for all of  us today, it is important that we are exactly in the place, the city, where all of us stood still for a minute of silence. We all  stood in liberty, equality and fraternity and we always will. We join efforts in defense of our values, our principles of  human rights, democracy and the rule of law. We are not afraid and we will never be. Terrorism has no religion, race or  nationality, but it also knows no borders. That is why we have a responsibility to stand united in the face of aggression.
14.2 The 70th anniversary of UNESCO for us is an opportunity to note our achievements, learn from our mistakes  and prepare for the challenges we face today. Never before have so many people enjoyed such high standards of living  or benefited from so much cooperation. At the same time, the past few years have taught us that progress can be  reversed. And we are seeing this today in some of our countries. Wars, conflict and terrorism spread instability. An  increased international effort to promote peace, human rights and democracy is essential. The new United Nations 2030  Agenda for Sustainable Development should, and will, address these principles and lead the change.
14.3 Today, three main spheres of UNESCO’s engagement deserve special and particular attention. First, education;  second, freedom of expression; and third, protection of heritage. Why education? Lasting peace, sustainable  development and eradication of poverty all depend on access to education. Radicalism and hate flourish exactly where  education fails. A growing number of children and young people are out of school in countries affected by conflict and  wars. Additional resources need to be mobilized for this purpose. In the twenty-first century, child marriages are still  widespread. This phenomenon deprives young girls of access to schooling and a better life. Ending child marriage is a  global challenge for all of us. Better education for girls and young women is an answer to it. UNESCO’s commitment to
12 years of free, publicly-funded, quality education, of which at least nine years are compulsory, needs to become a  reality before 2030. Education is a fundamental human right of which nobody should be deprived.
14.4 The second area of concern is freedom of expression. People must have the right to speak freely and journalists  must be able to report their stories without fear. Free speech is our weapon in the fight against terrorist propaganda.  When a crime against a journalist is committed, it is an attack on human rights. It is an attack on all of us. Recent  violence against journalists in the occupied Crimea (Ukraine), in the Middle East or in the heart of Paris only confirms  that we have reached the point of no return. Efforts of the media community, of Member States and international  organizations have to be united in order to stop it. It is for this reason that Lithuania initiated in the United Nations  Security Council a resolution that urges Member States to ensure accountability for crimes committed against journalists  in situations of armed conflict.
14.5 And third, we must unite for heritage because it is the heritage of our civilizations. We are outraged by the  attacks against cultural heritage in the Syrian Arab Republic and Iraq. These are unprecedented acts of barbarism and  attacks against the core values of humanity. It is our duty to help protect our common world heritage by expanding and  deepening cooperation and to seek accountability when international norms are severely violated.
14.6 Ladies and gentlemen, today more than ever we need a united response and action to protect our values and  principles. We need a UNESCO that can act through cooperation and partnership, a UNESCO that can promote peace  by ensuring access to education, defending freedom of the media and protecting our heritage. These are the obligations  that we have to the memory of those that lost their lives in Paris and to our future generations. Thank you.
15. The President:   Thank you very much, Your Excellency. On behalf of all Member States, I would like to thank the President of  the Republic of Lithuania for a very inspiring speech. Excellencies, ladies and gentlemen, our next speaker for this  morning is Ms Smriti Zubin Irani, Minister of Human Resource Development of India. After a successful career as an  award-winning actress, Her Excellency entered the political world by becoming a member of parliament in 2011. She was  appointed Minister of Human Resource Development last year in the cabinet of Prime Minister Narendra Modi. Your  Excellency, we warmly welcome you and are looking forward to your address. I now have the pleasure to invite you to  take the floor.
16.1 Ms Irani (Minister of Human Resource Development of India):   Excellencies, Mr President of the General Conference, Mr Chair of the Executive Board, Madam Director- General, ladies and gentlemen. As the sun set on Friday evening in the City of Light and death unleashed itself on the  streets, Parisians resolutely looked into the eyes of hate and said “No! No, we shall not be subjugated by fear”. And with  this message, as the sun rises on the 70th anniversary of UNESCO, let it be known that those who unleash terror on  humanity will be met by justice, those who endeavour to sow the seeds of hate in the hearts of our young shall be  defeated, those who conspire to kill peace shall be met by our collective determination to ensure that hope in humanity  endures.
16.2 Seven years ago in this very month of November, the city of dreams, Mumbai, was brutally attacked by those  who wanted our dreams of prosperity to perish.  Mumbaikars all, Indians all, today say to our brothers and sisters in Paris  – we shall overcome; overcome the desire of a selected few to suppress our liberty, equality and fraternity. I congratulate  UNESCO, Heads of State and the distinguished audience here, this eminent collectivity, for their presence, support and  solidarity in the face of this attack, not only on Paris and Parisians, but on all of humanity.
16.3 Excellencies, ladies and gentlemen, as we all know, UNESCO was established by the community of nations,  amidst the rubble and disarray in the aftermath of the Second World War. It was intended and planned to be an  institution with a difference, with a message and a mission. Never before has its message been more relevant, its task  more immediate and urgent. The message 70 years ago was loud and unequivocal. It was enshrined, not just in stone  outside this building but in the Preamble to its Constitution and its belief and practice: “Since wars begin in the minds of  men, it is in the minds of men that the defences of peace must be constructed.”
16.4 Ladies and gentlemen, India stands committed to the ideals of UNESCO, and to the furtherance of its role and  activities. On our part, we bring to the Organization a 5,000-year-old legacy of tolerance and inclusiveness, discourse  and debate, harmony and cooperation, all reflected in the unparalleled diversity of our nation called Bharat, a land of  many languages, cultures, faiths and ethnicities. India, with its national creed wedded to peace and nonviolence has  been a staunch and ardent supporter of UNESCO. As early as 1947, Mahatma Gandhi had expressed the deep Indian  interest in the efforts of UNESCO to “secure peace through educational and cultural activities”.
16.5 On several occasions in the past 18 months, I personally had occasion to turn to his writings, to glean from them  the wisdom and vision that can guide our educational system. Some of Gandhi’s most compellingly expressed views  were on education. He did not want the education system to only benefit the mind or the intellect, but to provide as well  for moral and physical development of our children. Education, he said, must not only produce learned minds, but also  enlightened souls.
16.6 Ladies and gentlemen, India is one with UNESCO in the prioritization of girls’ education. We have launched an  initiative “Beti Bachao, Beti Padhao” which celebrates the girl child and seeks to ensure the continued participation of  girls in education. It seeks to not only create equal opportunities but also change mindsets. Some of those factors  inhibiting participation in education, such as the provision of toilets in schools, may seem trivial to many here, but we  know it is a deciding factor for many girls who seek to continue their education. Therefore, through our “Swachh  Vidyalaya” initiative, we have ensured that those basic necessities do not impede or inhibit any girl child’s education. In  an historic first in independent India, by leveraging technology and through a collaborative spirit reflective of human  resolve to provide time-bound solutions, we have ensured separate toilets for our girl students in all government-run  schools. Over 400,000 toilets built in over 250,000 schools, all in just one year.
16.7 Our civilizations are built on the spirit of enquiry and reform. These values were cradled in the venerated  traditions of India, which encouraged a certain spirit of enquiry – a sense of curiosity that seeks to ameliorate the human  condition. Our developmental challenges have further shaped our thinking and the emphasis that we place on science,  technology and innovation. This belief has prompted our Government to launch the “Rashtriya Avishkaar Abhiyaan” (the  National Innovation Movement), to motivate and engage children in science, mathematics and technology through  observation, experimentation and fructification of ideas through inferences and model-building.
16.8 We share UNESCO’s conviction that the sciences, through the innovations and technologies that they foster, will  be critical in unearthing the possibilities for sustainable development. Our efforts towards channelling more resources for  research and development in India are rooted in the belief that widely-accessible and environmentally responsible  scientific solutions will be the key to our vision for the world beyond 2015. It is with this belief that over the years,  government funding to our premier institutions like the Indian Institutes of Technology (IITs) has increased manifold to  focus not only on basic research but also translational research for benefits, both to our country and economy. However,  funding alone does not create innovations, which need an ecosystem to sustain them and require the best and brightest  to be part of it. Through our Government’s Global Initiative for Academic Networks and in the spirit of international  cooperation and exchange, we invite academicians and experts from all over the world to fill knowledge gaps by  engaging with our students and faculties and to create academic networks for long-term research.
16.9 One of the most celebrated outcomes of education is its role in the expansion of the frontiers of our knowledge.  Our goal is to leave an imprint on time through support for research, innovation, and technology in India. The research  that we seek to encourage is one that is in alignment with the needs of our country. And we want to take this research to  evolve appropriate technologies for sustainable rural development, with focus on water management, organic farming,  renewable energy, frugal technology, infrastructure, rural livelihood and employment.
16.10 It is my belief that market forces do not always necessarily encourage socially-relevant innovations, unless  provided with the necessarily impetus by governments. This has prompted us to launch a unique programme called  “Unnat Bharat Abhiyaan” (Developed India Movement), which seeks to engage our premier institutions with local  communities to address developmental challenges through technological solutions to their problems. As part of this  programme, each premier institution selects a number of villages to identify and address problems requiring  technological intervention. Education must be socially and contextually relevant and rooted in the lives and aspirations of  our people.
16.11 Higher education is built upon the foundation that school education provides. India has been able to attract boys  and girls to schools through its emphasis on education for all or the Sarva Shiksha Abhiyaan and, during the last 15  years, there has been a significant rise in enrolment in schools at the higher education level as a result. However, a  sharp increase in the number of students and educational institutions has led to an increased need for quality teachers.
319  In order to meet this demand, Prime Minister Modi launched the “National Mission on Teachers and Teaching” on
25 December 2014. The Mission has a two-pronged strategy – increasing the availability of teachers and improving the  quality of existing teachers through training and retraining. The Mission also focuses on improving the administration of  our schools and higher educational institutions through leadership programmes to be anchored by top management  institutions in the country.
16.12 One of the most exciting developments in recent years has been the welcome addition of information and  communication technology (ICT) to our globalized lives. India has been fortunate to be able to fill its sails with these  winds in the sea of communication and technology and we endeavour to use ICTs to expand educational opportunities.  We are creating a national e-library to support our learners through the availability of quality learning courseware. The e- library, with almost one million volumes today and growing rapidly, will provide free and unfiltered access to knowledge  and learning, bringing a new and catalytically different dimension. As we look ahead, this could be a “game changer”,  delivering education and knowledge to millions. We invite nations, educational institutions and UNESCO, to be part of  this remarkable journey.
16.13 We are also in the process of developing a robust Indian platform called Swayam for this very purpose. From  this platform will flow specially designed massive open online courses (MOOCs) – close to 250,000 hours of e-learning  for our students to learn and absorb, inexpensively and at their own pace. Likewise, e-Pathshala is a portal and mobile  apps project which delivers to all our students, teachers, parents, researchers and educators all school books from grade
1 to 12 free for use of our citizens. We have attempted to leverage new technology to create learning opportunities for  every Indian citizen. In this global community, we seek to share our experiences, our technologies, and the new  knowledge frontiers that we have opened. In this and more, we seek to partner with UNESCO, and I would in fact urge  the Organization to take initiatives for collaborative knowledge sharing in the virtual space, which would further help us all  in our collective efforts towards achieving the 2030 Agenda in a timely manner.
16.14 Excellencies, ladies and gentlemen, all of our efforts are aimed at opening the windows of opportunity to  education. Our approach to education is built on a philosophy in which human existence is looked upon as a rare gift to  be utilized both for inner development and for the welfare of society at large. And this approach benefits greatly from an  increase in genuine dialogue and engagement between nations and cultures. We have thus sought to enable greater  interaction of scholars and scientists from all over the world with our students and faculty. I encourage all of you to come  to India to experience the transformation that is afoot and contribute to it by sharing your perspectives.
16.15 The spirit of global cooperation is prominent in our engagement with the recently adopted Sustainable  Development Goals (SDGs). The goals, including the one on education, reflect the international community’s  acknowledgment that education can play a decisive role in fostering a sense of shared responsibility and in bringing  about fundamental changes in how we coexist with each other and our planet. We have worked with other countries to  ensure that the goals are acceptable and universally-relevant to all countries, while acknowledging their unique national  contexts and socio-economic diversities. Ultimately, we believe that we need to arm young people with the skills and  compassion that allows them to carve a self-confident identity, while being respectful of others. This is also one of the  targets of the SDG on education.
16.16 We are already contributing to that global campaign through the New-Delhi based Mahatma Gandhi Institute of  Education for Peace and Sustainable Development, an institute which was set up in partnership with UNESCO to help  countries in the South-Asian region, and beyond, and transform their education systems, drawing on UNESCO’s  experience and inspired by the Mahatma’s legacy.
16.17 Ladies and gentlemen, Gandhi said that when we educate our children, we give them the strength to stand up to  violence with peace. We give them the right to a life of fair trials and the freedom to learn from mistakes. And we help  them define their identity in ways that make them appreciate differences, tolerate diversity and see the universal human  spirit in all of us. We, today ladies and gentlemen, are at the crossroads of a momentous turn in history. The next few  years will be years of historic change, as the world renews, rediscovers and recreates itself, and absorbs and assimilates  the elixir of a sustainable way of life. We have been entrusted with the responsibility of transforming the world as we  know it through the 2030 Agenda. This developmental agenda will not only guide our efforts for the next 15 years but  define our legacy for the generations to come. As the Honourable Prime Minister of India, Narendra Modi, has noted, the  United Nations needs to seize this historic opportunity for renewal lest we risk irrelevance and a tragic withering. Our  future must rest on building a sustainable planet for our generations to come.
16.18 UNESCO, with its recognized expertise and mandate in the areas of education, the sciences, culture and  communication and information can do much, on the one hand, to empower people with requisite knowledge, technical  and vocational skills and capacities and, on the other hand, to help the international community and individual countries  to devise new solutions to complex challenges. The contemporary discussion has to revolve around an integrated,  holistic philosophy in which human existence is looked upon as a rare gift to be utilized to the benefit of all of humanity. It  is also because of this timeless current of thought that India has an unwavering belief in multilateralism. We need a  genuine dialogue and engagement between countries. And that is why we stress that political resolve and an inclination  to share both technology and financial resources are essential to the successful implementation of the 2030 Agenda.
16.19 A purposeful movement towards a more equitable socio-economic order that respects the unsustainable burden  we are presently placing on our planet is essential if the future is to be defined by peace. Ultimately a world in which a  few appropriate the vast majority of the world’s resources is not a sustainable paradigm. Thank you so much, ladies and  gentlemen.
17. The President:   Thank you very much Your Excellency. On behalf of all Member States I would like to thank you most sincerely  for your very inspiring speech. Excellencies, ladies and gentlemen, our last speaker for this morning is His Excellency,  Mr Mountaga Tall, Minister of Higher Education and Scientific Research of Mali, who will deliver the message from the  President of Mali, His Excellency, Mr Ibrahim Boubacar Keita. Your Excellency, you now have the floor, Sir.
18.1 M. Tall (Ministre de L’Enseignement Supérieur et de la Recherche Scientifique du Mali) :   Excellences, Mesdames et Messieurs les chefs d’État et de gouvernement, Monsieur le Président de la  Conférence générale de l’UNESCO, Monsieur le Président du Conseil exécutif de l’UNESCO, Madame la Directrice  générale de l’UNESCO, Excellences, Mesdames et Messieurs, j’ai l’honneur de porter auprès de cette auguste  assemblée le message personnel du Président de la République du Mali, S. E. M. Ibrahim Boubacar Keïta, qui avait  souhaité être avec vous ce matin et qui avait pris toutes les dispositions pour ce faire, mais comme on dit : « Les  hommes proposent, Dieu dispose ».
18.2 Le Mali condamne avec la dernière énergie les actes odieux de terrorisme intervenus à Paris dans la nuit du
13 au 14 novembre 2015. Ces actes barbares reflètent l’horrible dessein de personnes niant toutes les valeurs humaines.  Par ces actes qui ne visent pas que la France mais le monde entier, les terroristes montrent encore leur vrai visage. Ils  cherchent à faire régner la peur, la division, la suspicion au sein de la communauté des hommes. Ils cherchent à nous  braquer les uns contre les autres sur un fond prétendument religieux, sur un fond communautaire. C’est à cela que nous  devons opposer le refus le plus catégorique. Par solidarité avec la France en deuil, le Président Ibrahim Boubacar Keïta  me fait porter le message de son amitié envers le peuple français.
18.3 Le terrorisme, Mesdames et Messieurs, est devenu une gangrène planétaire qui appelle à un combat sans  relâche. Comme un caméléon, il s’adapte à tout, utilise tous les moyens modernes et frappe d’innocentes personnes en  toute lâcheté. Notre réponse ne doit ni attendre ni être tributaire des calculs politiciens. Face à ces actes de désolation,  nous devons être capables de réagir avec vigueur et faire maintenir l’espoir partout dans le cœur des enfants du monde.  Nous devons refuser que la haine l’emporte sur l’amour entre les hommes. Nous devons refuser que les armes  l’emportent sur la raison et sur le cœur.
18.4 Le Mali est solidaire du peuple français. Hier lui-même victime de terrorisme, le Mali a recouru aux pays amis,  dont la France, pour assurer sa survie. Des Français sont venus se battre au Mali, pour le Mali, au nom de cette longue  amitié qui lie nos deux pays. Avant-hier à Verdun, hier à Tombouctou et Kidal, Maliens et Français ont combattu  ensemble pour la paix et continuent de le faire. Les Présidents Ibrahim Boubacar Keïta et François Hollande étaient bras  dessus bras dessous pour l’historique marche républicaine de janvier 2015 en guise de réponse du monde au lâche  attentat contre le journal Charlie Hebdo. Il ne saurait en être autrement de la part du Mali et de son Président chaque fois  qu’il s’agit de lutter contre la lâcheté, chaque fois que le besoin de solidarité avec les autres se manifeste.
18.5 Excellences, Mesdames et Messieurs, ces actes, aussi violents soient-ils, ne pourront aucunement vaincre  notre volonté et notre détermination à faire dialoguer les civilisations et les cultures. Le maintien du Forum des dirigeants  dans ce contexte est un acte de courage et de résistance que le Mali apprécie hautement. Cette actualité brûlante  montre encore une fois la pertinence de l’action de l’UNESCO dans le monde et le nécessaire soutien de tous les États  pour renforcer cette action.
18.6 Madame la Directrice générale, il me plaît de saisir l’opportunité de cette tribune pour vous remercier encore  une fois pour la solidarité manifestée à l’endroit du Mali. On se souvient, au Mali et ailleurs, de votre émotion face à  l’autodafé des manuscrits anciens de Tombouctou aux côtés du Président Hollande, le 2 février 2013, au Mali. Effondrée  par l’horrible spectacle de la destruction du riche patrimoine de Tombouctou, vous avez promis de ne pas croiser les  bras. Sous votre impulsion, l’UNESCO a lancé une vaste campagne de reconstruction du patrimoine culturel mondial du  Mali. Votre appel au monde, le plan d’action adopté et les différentes initiatives qui l’ont mis en œuvre ont permis de  reconstruire les mausolées de nos saints que vous avez personnellement inaugurés en juin dernier à Tombouctou.  Madame Bokova, vous n’imaginez pas l’immense bonheur de tout un peuple qui vous reste reconnaissant. En détruisant  les mausolées de Tombouctou, en brûlant les manuscrits anciens de cette ville symbole de l’islam, les terroristes ont  voulu provoquer l’indignation. Ils ont voulu tout effacer mais oublient-ils que l’Histoire ne s’efface pas d’un coup de  canon ? Tombouctou, ville patrimoine de l’humanité, ne s’effondre pas sous la première menace. Ceux qui ont décrit  Tombouctou – je voudrais citer René Caillé, Gordon Laing et Heinrich Barth – n’ont nulle part découvert des signes  d’intolérance dans cette cité. Ils ont admiré la civilité des populations, soutenue par la culture immense d’hommes de  lettres et de sciences, à Sankoré, une prestigieuse université médiévale. Que la maison du chrétien René Caillé côtoie  les proches avenues de la mosquée de Sankoré et soit objet d’attraction dans une ville majoritairement musulmane suffit  à mesurer l’esprit de tolérance des populations et la nature de l’islam qu’elles pratiquent. Les manuscrits que nos  ancêtres ont légués à la postérité contiennent des connaissances qui nous servent à consolider notre entente et notre  vivre ensemble. J’en appelle encore, Mesdames et Messieurs, à votre soutien pour faire parler ces manuscrits dont le  Mali n’est que le gardien et qui appartiennent à la communauté internationale.
18.7 Excellences, Mesdames et Messieurs, vous le savez, le Mali a transféré à la Cour pénale internationale le  premier suspect pour destruction de patrimoine de l’humanité. C’est le lieu de saluer le Président Mahamadou Issoufou  et Mme Irina Bokova – encore vous, Madame – pour l’effort conjugué qui a abouti à cet événement de grande portée  historique. Nous devons tous soutenir avec énergie la stratégie de renforcement de l’action de l’UNESCO en matière de  protection du patrimoine culturel et de promotion du pluralisme culturel en cas de conflit armé.
18.8 Le Mali également, par effet de solidarité, manifeste son soutien à la campagne #UnisPourLePatrimoine lancée  à l’Université de Bagdad. Notre indignation est grande devant les scènes de destruction des biens appartenant à  l’humanité et témoignant de la créativité des civilisations humaines. Il nous faut agir pour arrêter cette barbarie. Si nous
321  voulons vaincre l’extrémisme, il nous faudrait nous attaquer aux racines du mal qui sont essentiellement l’illettrisme.  L’éducation, en réponse à l’extrémisme, est le socle de notre politique nationale après les soubresauts que notre pays a  connus.
18.9 Excellences, Mesdames et Messieurs, le Mali est désormais sur la voie de la paix grâce à votre solidarité et à  votre amitié. Mon pays a tangué dans les eaux boueuses de la violence et de l’incompréhension. Cependant, le 20 mai  passé, nous avons montré au monde entier que la pirogue Mali peut tanguer mais que jamais elle ne coulera. Pour  arriver à ce résultat, que de doutes, que de lassitudes, que d’amertume, que de dépits vaincus ! Nous avons su garder  espoir. Nous avons puisé dans nos ressorts pour garder la flamme de l’espoir allumée.
18.10 Le Président de la République du Mali, S. E. Ibrahim Boubacar Keïta, remercie la communauté internationale  pour son action aux côtés du Mali. Il adresse ses vifs remerciements au Président François Hollande et au Président  Abdul Aziz Bouteflika pour la conduite magistrale de la médiation entre Maliens. Avec l’aide de tous, nous saurons nous  réconcilier, nous saurons réconcilier les Maliens et ramener la joie dans le cœur de chacun et la paix dans l’esprit de  tous. Ainsi, nous aurons été dignes de nos illustres devanciers qui, en fondant notre belle Organisation, étaient  convaincus que – je cite – « les guerres prenant naissance dans l’esprit des hommes, c’est dans l’esprit des hommes  que doivent être élevées les défenses de la paix ». Mesdames et Messieurs, je vous remercie pour votre aimable  attention.
19. The President:   Thank you very much, Your Excellency, for having delivered the President’s message. Excellencies, ladies and  gentlemen, we have thus come to the end of the Leaders’ Forum for this morning. Before adjourning our meeting, I wish  to remind you that the plenary will reconvene this afternoon at 3 p.m. when we will have the pleasure of hearing the  addresses of two former Directors-General of UNESCO, namely Mr Amadou-Mahtar M’Bow and Mr Koichiro Matsuura.  As for the reports of the commissions, the plenary will examine these in our session tomorrow morning. I wish you a  pleasant lunch. Before you rise, can we please allow their Excellencies to retreat from the room and thereafter we will  follow in a very orderly manner. Thank you very much for your cooperation. This meeting is now adjourned.  The meeting rose at 12.45 p.m.  La séance est levée à 12 h 45  Se levanta la sesión a las 12.45  Заседание закрывается в 12.45  رالظه بعد ١٢,٤٥اسلسة يف الساعة  رفعت   会议于 12 时 45 分结束