1.1 The President:    Good afternoon ladies and gentlemen, colleagues, welcome back to the plenary. I declare open the thirteenth  plenary meeting of the General Conference. With the meeting of today we will start examining the reports of programme  commissions and committees. Before we do that, I would like to inform you that the Bureau of the General Conference  held its fourth meeting this morning, when it fielded progress reports on the work of the commissions and committees,  and I am pleased to inform you all that their work is fully on schedule. I also have the pleasure to inform you that there  will be no plenary meeting tomorrow, Saturday 14 November 2015, and I believe that this will allow all of us, including all  of us here, to have a well-deserved rest and be prepared for the Leaders’ Forum that will commence on Monday.
1.2 As you know, this morning the Nominations Committee held polling for a second round of votes for the last  remaining vacant seat for Group V (b) for the Executive Board. I believe that the Chairperson of the Nominations  Committee has information that needs to be conveyed to us. Your Excellency, you have the floor.   Election of Members of the Executive Board (continued)  Élection de membres du Conseil exécutif (suite)  Elección de los Miembros del Consejo Ejecutivo (continuación)  Выборы членов Исполнительного совета (продолжение)  جتابع)انتخاب أعضاء في المجلس التنفيذي    选举执行局委员 （续）
2. Mr Worbs (Germany) (Chairperson of the Nominations Committee):   Thank you, Mr President. Unfortunately I have to make an announcement which will not please most of you.  The number of votes cast does not correspond to the number of signatures on the electoral record. Rule 11 of Appendix I  of the Rules of Procedure reads as follows: “When the Chairperson of the Meeting has opened the ballot box, the tellers  shall check the number of envelopes. If the number is greater or less than that of the voters, the Chairperson of the  Meeting shall be informed and he or she shall then declare the vote invalid and announce that it is necessary to reopen  the ballot”. Unfortunately, this is our situation and a new vote has to be held. As tomorrow there is no meeting of the  General Conference, we have two options. One would be to hold the vote today, which is technically possible. I was  informed by the Secretary that it could be held today between 4 p.m. and 6 p.m. It has to be in Room IV again. The  alternative would be to go forward to Wednesday, because on Monday and Tuesday we have the Leaders’ Forum. I  understand that the Ambassadors of the two countries concerned are not very happy about Wednesday. So from my  side and the Secretariat’s side, it would be possible technically to hold the vote today between 4 p.m. and 6 p.m. Thank  you, Mr President.
3. The President:    Thank you very much, Your Excellency. Let me now invite the Legal Adviser to confirm the validity and the  applicability of that Rule and also to confirm whether indeed the elections are possible today, because it is our intention  to do whatever needs to be done following the unfortunate events, strictly in accordance with the rules that govern us as  an Organization. Madam Legal Adviser, you have the floor.
4. Legal Adviser:   Thank you very much, Mr President. I confirm, as has already been advised to you by Ambassador Worbs, the  invalidity of the vote that took place earlier today and the consequent need to conduct that vote again. I can also confirm  that there is no legal impediment to holding the ballot today, later this afternoon.
5. The President:    Thank you very much. That being the case, Excellencies, ladies and gentlemen, you are therefore kindly invited  to cast your vote in Room IV from 4 p.m. to 6 p.m. today, and please let us do it correctly. I again appeal to you to please  follow the procedure correctly to avoid contaminating the outcome of this last vote. Results will be announced at the end  of our plenary session on Monday, but at the same time we will also display the results electronically. I think we are  together on that. Thank you very much.  Item 13.1: Venue of the 39th session of the General Conference (38 C/45)  Point 13.1 : Lieu de la 39e session de la Conférence générale (38 C/45)  Punto 13.1: Lugar de celebración de la 39ª reunión de la Conferencia General (38 C/45)  Пункт 13.1: Место проведения 39-й сессии Генеральной конференции (38 С/45)  )٤٥/م٣٨ج : مكان انعقاد الدورة التاسعة والثالثين للمؤتمر العام١٣,١البند    项目 13.1：大会第三十九届会议地点（38 C/45）
6. The President:   Ladies and gentlemen, I now invite you to examine item 13.1 which concerns the venue of the 39th session of  the General Conference. As you can see in document 38 C/45, the Executive Board has already made a  recommendation on this matter through 197 EX/Decision 22.3. I would like to ask if the General Conference wishes to  adopt the draft resolution contained in paragraph 6 of document 38 C/45, which proposes to hold the 39th session of the  General Conference at the Headquarters of the Organization here in Paris. Are there any objections to this proposal? I  see none. It is so decided. Thank you very much.
291  Report of the APX Commission (Finance, Administration and General Questions, Programme Support and  External Relations) (38 C/90)  Rapport de la Commission APX (Finances, administration et questions générales, soutien du programme et  relations extérieures) (38 C/90)   Informe de la Comisión APX (Cuestiones Financieras y Administrativas, Asuntos Generales, Apoyo del  Programa y Relaciones Exteriores) (38 C/90)   Доклад Комиссии APX (финансовые, административные и общие вопросы, поддержка выполнения  программы и внешние связи) (38 C/90)   )٩٠م/٣٨جة تقرير لجنة الشؤون المالية واإلدارية والمسائل العامة ومساندة البرنامج والعالقات الخارجي    财务、行政和一般问题、计划支助和对外关系委员会（APX）的报告(38 C/90)
7. The President:   Your Excellencies, let us now examine the report of the APX Commission which is contained in document
38 C/90. The Chairperson of the Commission, Mr Mathew Sudders, will present this document. Ambassador Sudders,  you now have the floor.
8.1 Mr Sudders (United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland) (Chairperson of the APX Commission):  Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr Chair of the Executive Board, Madam Director-General, Excellencies  and distinguished colleagues, it is with pleasure that I submit to you the report on the work of the Commission for  Finance, Administration and General Questions, Programme Support and External Relations (APX Commission) of the
38th session of the General Conference.
8.2 The APX Commission considered 27 items from 4 to 9 November 2015. The Commission’s report, document
38 C/90, includes only the draft resolutions that the Commission recommends to the General Conference for adoption.  The following items were adopted without debate: item 3.5 on the adoption of the budget ceiling was not debated again  as it had already been adopted in the joint meeting of commissions, items 4.1, 4.17, 4.24, 5.6, 5.7, 8.1 as well as the  report by the Governing Board of the UNESCO Institute for Statistics (UIS) on the activities of the Institute in 2014-2015,  and items 9.3, 9.4, 9.5, 10.2 and 10.3.
8.3 Mr President, dear colleagues, allow me first briefly to return to item 1.3 “Report by the Director-General on  communications received from Member States invoking the provisions of Article IV.C, paragraph 8(c), of the Constitution”.  You will recall that I delivered, at the plenary on Saturday 7 November, a separate oral report on this item, following  which the corresponding resolution was adopted. As I had noted then, the working group on voting rights had made  recommendations to the APX Commission on its working methods. Those recommendations were: (i) that the General  Conference refine the definitions of the conditions that can be invoked by Member States regarding the inability to pay.  Some Member States may be faced with conditions arising from events prior to the two-year time period set; (ii) that the  deadline for the submission of communications be reviewed, as the three days after the commencement of the General  Conference may not give the working group sufficient time to explore possibilities for the payment of contributions. The  working group therefore suggested that the deadline be set as the first day of the Executive Board session preceding the  General Conference; (iii) that the working group meet one or two months before the expiration of the deadline to give the  working group more time to discuss with representatives of countries the mechanisms to ensure the payment of their  contributions, including the review of existing and proposed payment plans; and finally, (iv) that membership of the  working group be extended to two terms to ensure continuity and understanding of the rules and procedures.
8.4 Mr President, after discussions in the APX Commission, it was decided that those recommendations would be  sent to the working group that has been created for governance, which I will speak about later, and to the Legal  Committee of the General Conference. They would therefore be able to be considered at the next session of the General  Conference.
8.5 Mr President, let me now turn to item 5.4 concerning “Revisions of the Terms of Reference of the Oversight  Advisory Committee (OAC)”. This item was presented by the representative of the Director-General, noting that the terms  of reference (TOR), to advise the Director-General on oversight, risk management and internal control of the  Organization, had been adopted at the 35th session of the General Conference. The revisions in the TOR were proposed  by the Oversight Advisory Committee (OAC) itself and by the Executive Board.
8.6 Member States questioned the appropriateness of having a committee appointed by the Director-General  advising Member States on the appointment of the independent External Auditor. It was answered that the revision was a  suggestion of OAC itself, and was intended to enable Member States to seek such advice from the Committee, should  they so decide. With regard to the composition of the Committee and its membership, Member States raised several  questions: one Member State noted a potential conflict of interest in that the Director of the Internal Oversight Service  (IOS) was involved in the selection panel and the Committee could potentially advise on the appointment of the Director  of IOS. The representative of the Director-General pointed out that it would only be a single outside member advising the  panel on selection, and such expert advice could be very useful. On a suggestion that there be a broader membership of  six members to reflect geographical representation, the Member States were informed that OAC is a committee selected  on the basis of individual expertise. The representative of the Director-General added that considerable efforts were  made to ensure geographical representation and gender balance among its members. It was also suggested that two- year appointments may be too short and consideration of a four-year term was indicated. The representative of the  Director-General acknowledged that a longer membership could be appropriate if it was staggered amongst the  members to facilitate continuity of the work of the Committee.
8.7 It was also pointed out that the Joint Inspection Unit (JIU) was undertaking a review of the internal audit function
292  of the entire United Nations system, which would take stock of audit committees across the United Nations and identify  best practices. To properly consider the good practices identified in that report, the APX Commission has requested the  Director-General to propose a further update to the Terms of Reference of the Oversight Advisory Committee, at the
200th session of the Executive Board, in consultation with the Committee itself, in order to bring them into line with those  of the United Nations Independent Audit Advisory Committee (IAAC).
8.8 Mr President, the APX Commission then examined item 10.4 “Report by the Director-General on the state of the  Medical Benefit Funds (MBF)”. The representative of the Director-General, in introducing the first part of the document,  confirmed that the governance structure of the Medical Benefits Fund (MBF) had been implemented in line with the  decision taken by the General Conference at its last session (37 C/Resolution 85) and that election of members to the  new Advisory Board of the Medical Benefits Fund had taken place from 21 to 23 October 2015. The representative of the  Director-General then continued to the second part of the report, which addressed the financial situation of the Fund and,  in particular, raised the issue of After-Service Health Insurance (ASHI).
8.9 The financial situation of the Medical Benefits Fund, “the pay as you go scheme”, had improved and the  reserves as at 30 September 2015 stood at 17 months of expenditure, in line with the ideal level of 15-18 months, as  requested by External Auditor. The Director-General’s representative then gave an overview of the After-Service Health  Insurance (ASHI) liability, which reflected the estimated total future costs associated with providing health insurance to  existing retirees and current staff upon their retirement. The liability had increased significantly by 51% to $1.27 billion as  at 31 December 2014. That significant increase was attributable to the change from 4% to 2.3% of the discount rate used  in the valuation of the liability. Measures had been taken to address the long-term funding of the liability by introducing a
4% payroll charge applied since 1 January 2015 on extrabudgetary projects which paid the salaries of staff who were  participants in the Fund. With regard to funding from the regular budget, the Executive Board made a recommendation to  the General Conference that it approve a 1% charge on staff costs to fund the ASHI liability with effect from 1 January
8.10 With regard to the concern expressed about the increasing financial obligations and queries, and on whether the  liability was due to the fact that the Fund provided coverage for retirees and their dependents, Member States were  informed that the Medical Benefits Fund did indeed provide such coverage for retirees and their dependents, in line with  United Nations-wide practice and that was owed to the difficulty former staff members had to integrate national schemes  upon retirement. It was highlighted that only dependents already enrolled during the active participation of the staff  member were eligible for after-service coverage.
8.11 Member States stressed the need to mitigate the risks as highlighted by the recent IOS report, and requested  an audit of the Fund to be made by the External Auditor. A number of participants of the Fund had also made such a  request. Further, on the concern regarding the increase in the ASHI liability and the reasons why it has grown  significantly, the principal reason was, as mentioned, owing to the impact of the discount rate. The underlying liability  would actually have decreased if the discount rate had remained the same. Member States queried how other United  Nations agencies were dealing with the ASHI liability and how UNESCO could finance it.
8.12 The representative of the Director-General stated that other United Nations agencies were dealing with the very  same issues. An ASHI Working Group had been set up by the General Assembly to study the current situation among  United Nations organizations and come up with long-term solutions. As outlined in the introductory part, UNESCO had  taken measures to address the issue. However, the current proposal of 1% would not be enough. In fact, a proposal of
8% was needed. The representative of the Director-General also said that $12 million had been set aside in document
38 C/5 as the proposed UNESCO contributions for retirees. The creation of a tripartite committee composed of Member  States, the administration and participant representatives to find “home-grown” solutions to our liability to contain costs  was suggested and approved. It was agreed by members of the APX Commission that the tripartite committee would  also consider recommendations of the External Auditor.
8.13 Turning to item 10.1 “Staff Regulations and Staff Rules”, the representative of the Director-General explained  that Regulation 12.2 required the Director-General to report to each session of the General Conference on which Staff  Rules had been introduced or amended to implement the Staff Regulations. In that regard, the Director-General  introduced amendments, in the course of the biennium, to the following provisions: performance reports, following the  introduction of a new performance assessment policy, and maternity leave, to harmonize with the United Nations  common system provisions on leave for breastfeeding purposes. Furthermore, Regulation 12.1 of the Staff Regulations  provided that the Regulations may be supplemented or amended by the General Conference subject to the maintenance  of the acquired rights of staff members.
8.14 It was recalled that the Executive Board, at its 197th session, having examined the IOS audit report on  recruitment, had requested the Director-General to implement the action plan for each recommendation and to propose  any amendments to the Staff Regulations that would be necessary to implement those audit recommendations.
8.15 Reservations were expressed on two points: first, the priority consideration given to staff members in the  recruitment process. Such a provision was questioned, insofar as the best candidate should be selected, whether  internal or external. Second, the rationale behind the ability of the Director-General to limit certain posts to internal  candidates as well as the priority given to staff members in the service of other United Nations agencies, again stressing  that only the best candidates should be selected. It was explained that it would be so, in the case of downsizing, to  ensure that staff members whose posts had been abolished had priority in applying and being considered for other posts.  On the priority given to staff of other organizations of the United Nations for vacancies in UNESCO, it was confirmed that  it was a standard provision in other organizations and that, if it were removed, UNESCO staff would no longer benefit  from the possibility to be considered for posts in other United Nations organizations on a reciprocal basis.
8.16 It was emphasized that the Staff Regulation, as amended, would in fact guarantee that the best candidate would  be selected, as posts would be advertised internally and externally at the same time for one month. It was highlighted  that at equal competency, and equal competency only, staff members should have priority consideration for posts, as  they must be able to advance in their career.
8.17 A minor amendment was also made to Staff Regulation 4.5.3 in order to clarify the term “tenure” in relation to  the position of the Legal Adviser. The clarification was thought to be necessary following the provision of external legal  advice in 2013 wherein it was noted that the use of the term tenure had not been consistent, and that a clarification  would be appropriate. With the amendment, it was made clear that all decisions relating to the persons employed in the  posts in the regulation would be subject to consultation with the Executive Board. Following the good practice introduced  by the Director-General in formally consulting the Executive Board on the appointment of the Director of IOS, Member  States also decided to embed that practice in the regulation to cover the Director of IOS and the Ethics Officer. The  regulation remained strictly limited to those posts where independence was felt to be essential for the functioning of the  post. The Executive Board decided separately, prior to recruitment, on the terms of reference and contract durations for  those posts.
8.18 Next, item 10.3 concerning the “United Nations Joint Staff Pension Fund and the appointment of Member  States’ representatives to the UNESCO Staff Pension Committee for 2016-2017”, was taken without debate. Six Member  States volunteered to serve as members, Brazil and Kenya offered continuation of service and the Philippines as a new  member, alternates would be Oman, Libya and Canada and they would serve 2016-2017.
8.19 The APX Commission then examined item 11.2 on the “Mandate of the Headquarters Committee”, wherein they  reiterated its mandate and continuing importance.
8.20 Closely linked to the above, the Commission moved on to item 11.1 concerning the “Report by the Director- General, in cooperation with the Headquarters Committee, on managing the UNESCO complex”, which was introduced  by the Chairperson of the Headquarters Committee, His Excellency the Ambassador of Bangladesh, who informed the  Commission on the overall work accomplished by the Committee since the last session of the General Conference, in  particular the approval of separate office rental scales that included a provision for long-term maintenance and  conservation, including the mechanism for accumulating reserves for financing long-term maintenance and conservation  of the Miollis and Bonvin buildings. He also explained that the Committee continued to follow-up current and future  renovation projects at UNESCO Headquarters. The Committee was continuing its consideration of a number of ongoing  items, in particular the UNESCO auxiliary services and would conclude those issues with success and report back to the  Executive Board.
8.21 The representative of the Director-General provided additional elements on projects including the renovation of  Room X, the forward security post, the optimization of space and the renovation of Building VII with a view to it being  rented to the United Nations Environment Programme (UNEP). The regrouping of the Secretariat at the Fontenoy site  had freed up space in the Bonvin building for rent following the adoption of a rental scale and the guidelines put in place  by the Headquarters Committee.
8.22 The representative of the Director-General stated that the report paid particular attention to the action already  taken or to be taken to ward off further degradation of the Headquarters buildings and in spite of budget restrictions, the  Secretariat continued to take palliative actions to avoid further risks. In the light of the risks, the Secretariat, in  collaboration with the Headquarters Committee, had begun to consider a more sustainable and structural plan and  identify financing options for the conservation of the Miollis and Bonvin sites. That would be the object of the work of the  Headquarters Committee and the Secretariat in the upcoming biennium.
8.23 There were some concerns regarding IT security related to Permanent Delegations and tenants, but the  Commission was reassured that the IT security for all tenants was ensured.
8.24 The Commission also took note of the urgency of works required by the Miollis and Bonvin sites. It was also  stated that the rental of conference rooms should be paid and that the rental scale adopted by the Headquarters  Committee should be applied and the use of rooms should no longer be free of charge. The revenue of room rental  should serve for renovation. The representative of the Director-General confirmed that the Secretariat would be  presenting the Headquarters Committee with guidelines for room tariffs based on full cost recovery and introducing a  provision for maintenance and conservation.
8.25 The representative of the Director-General replied that to date, €940,000 out of the €1.2 million loan had already  been reimbursed and that the final amount would be reimbursed in 2016-2017. A steering committee had been  established for the renovation of Room I following a previous recommendation of the External Auditor. The steering  committee would include two Headquarters Committee members as observers.
8.26 With regard to item 3.1 on “Methods of preparing the budget, budget estimates for 2016-2017 and budgeting  techniques”, the Commission briefly discussed the concepts, which had been introduced throughout the current biennium  at Executive Board session through budget orientation debates.
8.27 The representative of the Director-General made a brief presentation on the budgeting techniques used to  prepare document 38 C/5 for 2016-2017. The Commission was reminded that the preparation of draft document 38 C/5  started with the Director-General’s preliminary proposals, submitted to the Executive Board at its 195th session in  autumn 2014, wherein the Director-General presented three scenarios, namely: the Zero Real Growth scenario of $682  million; the Zero Nominal Growth scenario of $653 million; and the Zero Nominal Growth Plus scenario of $667 million.
8.28 After examining the Director-General’s preliminary proposals, the Executive Board requested the Director-
294  General to prepare document 38 C/5 based on two scenarios, namely the Zero Nominal Growth Plus scenario of $667  million and the Zero Nominal Growth scenario of $653 million, together with their corresponding expenditure plans of  $518 million and $507 million, respectively.
8.29 In that regard, document 38 C/5 was presented to the Executive Board at its 196th session for its initial review.  The Executive Board had recommended that the General Conference approve the proposal for the $667 million and the  expenditure plan of $518 million. The Executive Board at that time had also requested the Secretariat to make further  refinements to budget allocations for the expected results of the five major programmes, which was done and submitted  to the General Conference in document 38 C/6 Addendum 2.
8.30 The representative of the Director-General also outlined certain important features of document 38 C/5, namely  its continuity with document 37 C/5 Approved, which covered a period of four years: 2014-2017. The Secretariat further  noted that efforts were made to assign more resources to the five major programme in all scenarios, and to respect to  the extent possible the priority rankings established by Member States.
8.31 With regard to the constant dollar rate, it was further noted that following a series of Executive Board decisions,  and in light of the fact that the current market euro/dollar exchange rate was very close to the constant dollar rate used  by UNESCO, the Executive Board decided to maintain the rate of $1 = €0.869 for the 2016-2017 biennium covered by  document 38 C/5 and to examine its revision in the following C/5 document.
8.32 Member States welcomed the improvements observed in document 38 C/5, and urged the Secretariat to  continue the “work in progress” to further improve the implementation of results-based budgeting and the containment of  incompressible costs.
8.33 In the light of item 3.1, the APX Commission moved on to item 3.2, “Consideration and adoption of the Draft  Budget for 2016-2017”. Parts I, III.A, III.B, and III.C were all adopted without debate and Part II.B called for debate only  on the section relating to the Sector for External Relations and Public Information (ERI). Several Members of the  Commission took the floor to express their views on the proposed draft resolution presented by a Member State.
8.34 While some Members supported the proposal, which was to ensure that regional consultations were conducted  in a face-to-face environment, others recalled the discussions held at the last session of the Executive Board and the  financial implications that such consultations would entail. The representative of the Director-General recalled the recent  decision adopted at the last session of the Board on the roadmap on the organization of regional consultations on the  C/5 document. He also noted the modalities set out in the Action Plan for enhancing the cooperation of the UNESCO  Secretariat with National Commissions for UNESCO and the holding of the annual interregional meeting of National  Commissions and various other types of National Commission meetings.
8.35 Following the debate, the APX Commission recommended to the General Conference that it adopt without  amendment the resolution proposed, while emphasizing the importance of face-to-face meetings, as it seemed  imperative to increase the interaction between Headquarters and National Commissions through regional consultations  and other means. Eventually, all decisions under the item were adopted without amendment.
8.36 In discussing item 3.4 concerning the “Preparation of the Draft Programme and Budget for 2018-2021 (39 C/5)”,  the representative of the Director-General gave a brief presentation of the major phases of the preparation of the  Programme for that period. The resolution of the General Conference at its 38th session would set the stage for the  Secretariat to launch the preparation of the future Programme and Budget, guided by the strategic orientations and the  views expressed by the Member States. Consultations would continue throughout the new biennium through an online  questionnaire, e-discussions and the Executive Board sessions leading up to the adoption of draft document 39 C/5 at  the 39th session of the General Conference.
8.37 Member States highlighted the importance of UNESCO’s normative role, as well as its role in providing  upstream policy advice, and the need for greater focus on all forms of inequality and discrimination, including gender  equality. Member States also mentioned priority issues such as the multidisciplinary mandate of the Organization,  presence in the field, the need for the Organization to become fit for delivery and to play an effective role in supporting  Member States in implementing the 2030 Agenda. It was also noted that more strategic guidance was needed on how to  bring those questions forward, such as striking the right balance between the normative and operational activities in the  process for developing the next programme and budget. While all Member States commended the implementation of  results-based budgeting, they also stressed that the application of such techniques had to fit the programmes to which  they were applied.
8.38 It was underlined that when the discussions concerning the preparation of document 39 C/5 began, the diversity  of programmes that were at the core of UNESCO had to be taken into account in their evaluation. It was noted that not  all were quantifiable in the short term. It was further noted that major programmes such as Major Programme III (Social  and Human Sciences) had to be considered in the light of their role with regard to effective social inclusion, reduced  inequality and poverty eradication.
8.39 Mr President, the APX Commission debated item 5.1 on the “New format of reporting to the Executive Board on  programme implementation”. When introducing the item, the representative of the Director-General indicated that in  response to the concerns expressed at the last session of the Executive Board regarding the length of the EX/4  document and level of detail, the Bureau of Strategic Planning (BSP), in close cooperation with programme sectors and  the Division of Knowledge Management and Information Systems (KMI) had streamlined and simplified the system and  consequently the length of the online report from the System of Information on Strategies, Tasks and the Evaluation of  Results (SISTER) would be reduced by about two thirds, while retaining essential information for Member States’
295  decisions.
8.40 The representative of the Director-General recalled that the work initiated three years ago had resulted from  consultations and collaboration between the Secretariat and the governing bodies. It was further recalled that through
195 EX/Decision 4.V, the Executive Board had introduced the Programme Implementation Report (PIR) to be presented  at every spring session and the Strategic Result Report (SRR) to be presented every four years. Accordingly, the first  PIR had been presented at the 196th session of the Executive Board and the SISTER online report had been presented  at both the 195th and 197th sessions of the Executive Board.
8.41 The representative of the Director-General specified that in response to calls for further linking Part I and Part II  of the EX/4 document, work would be engaged with the Bureau of Financial Management (BFM) along those lines whilst  maintaining the integrity of its two parts. It was indicated that in pursuit of streamlining and simplification and in light of  the current elaboration of the PIR and SRR, the Secretariat proposed to revert to a cumulative report for the PIR. As  such, the coverage of the PIR would be coherent with UNESCO’s internal information technology systems and thereby  decrease the reporting burden on the Secretariat and facilitate Member States’ discussions.
8.42 Some Member States further indicated that if the SISTER online report had to be maintained for the autumn  session of the Executive Board, it should be accompanied by a written executive summary. As an alternative to the  SISTER online report, the representative of the Director-General proposed that programme Assistant Directors-General  (ADGs) deliver a brief summary of key trends orally, thereby facilitating discussions at the autumn sessions of the  Executive Board.
8.43 With regard to item 9.5 on the “Working Capital Fund: level and administration”, the members of the APX  Commission endorsed without debate the recommendation of the Director-General concerning the authorized level for
2016-2017 and the use of its resources.
8.44 Turning to item 5.3 on the “Revision of the Financial Regulations for Special Accounts”, the representative of the  Director-General presented the approach for the implementation of the External Auditor’s recommendation following the  audit of the Emergency Fund.
8.45 On a query about the possibility of decentralizing some of the Special Accounts listed in the document, the  representative of the Director-General informed Member States that nothing in the Financial Regulations for Special  Accounts prevented decentralization and that it was in the mandate of each sector to decide on the decentralization as  part of their management. It was further mentioned that there was already one Special Account managed by the field.
8.46 Member States requested more detailed information and additional explanations on the Funds-in-Trust  Overhead Costs Account (FITOCA) with regard to the source of income and more specifically on the use of funds,  account administration, decision-making with respect to funds allocation as well as an audit of the account. The  representative of the Director-General, drawing attention to the document presented at the 197th session of the  Executive Board, describing the details on FITOCA, explained the principles relating to the account. The source of  income of the account, the flat rate applied to extrabudgetary projects in order to cover indirect variable costs particularly  administrative costs in Headquarters and field offices, and the detailed number of posts funded under FITOCA were  noted.
8.47 The representative of the Director-General further indicated that all funds, including all Special Accounts, were  audited and included in the financial statements of the Organization. It was noted that in 2011, an external audit on the  cost-recovery policy and FITOCA had been undertaken and the Secretariat had implemented some of the  recommendations, including those relating to posts covered under FITOCA.
8.48 Member States asked the Secretariat to explain the difference between the cost recovery Special Account and  FITOCA in order to provide them with a better understanding. The representative of the Director-General stated that cost  recovery and overheads, including their different components, were regularly presented to the Executive Board as part of  the document on resource mobilization and implementation of the action plan for improved management of  extrabudgetary projects. It was clarified that cost recovery related to staff costs of regular programme staff charged to  extrabudgetary projects. Such recovery was credited to the cost recovery account for use by the relevant units within the  sector to implement their programmes. Regarding FITOCA, the representative of the Director-General stated that  FITOCA covered indirect variable costs, in particular the administrative costs in Headquarters and field offices. It was  further stated that the definition was included in document 182 EX/42, stating that the “programme support cost rate  would only recover the support costs of Headquarters central services and field office administrative units and that all  other costs should be charged directly to projects”, which was in line with UNESCO’s cost-recovery policy.
8.49 Member States requested that FITOCA management and oversight be further discussed by the Executive  Board, together with a detailed annual report on the use of funds under the account. Member States reiterated their  assertion that right from its establishment, FITOCA had been seen as recovering money lent from the regular programme  budget to enable the implementation of extrabudgetary projects. They used the term regular programme subsidizing  extrabudgetary projects. As such, it was indeed logical, dating back to the establishment of the FITOCA Special Account,  that Member States should guide how the FITOCA resources were allocated and distributed. With that in mind, the  resolution provided such guidance be given through regular reporting items to the Executive Board.
8.50 The draft resolution on the item was re-examined during the last meeting, upon the approval of the Member  States, to take into account the financial and legal implications of the first iteration of the decision. It should be noted that  the decision only affected Special Accounts and not Funds-in-Trusts, including self-benefiting funds-in-trust, which was  particularly important in the case of the largest of those, Brazil’s self-benefiting funds-in-trust, which was not a Special
296  Account.
8.51 Mr President, let me now move on to the items relating to the financial reports of the Organization. They are the  financial report and audited consolidated financial statements relating to the accounts of UNESCO for the financial period  ending 31 December 2013, and the report by the External Auditor and the financial report relating to the accounts ending
31 December 2014, and the report by the External Auditor. These are items 9.1 and 9.2, and were discussed together.  Member States commended the External Auditor of our Organization, Mr Didier Migaud (France), for the high quality of  his work. They also expressed satisfaction with his unqualified opinion regarding both accounting periods.
8.52 The External Auditor drew the attention of the Commission to the four main audit recommendations: (i) the need  to amend the financial regulations and rules to ensure that financial statements could be approved on a yearly basis; (ii)  to move from the use of a constant dollar rate to a rate closer to economic reality; (iii) to put in place a reliable long-term  ASHI funding system; and (iv) to harmonize the accounting practices and information technology systems to increase the  reliability of the consolidated financial statements.
8.53 The representative of the Director-General emphasized that the audited financial statements were prepared in  accordance with International Public Sector Accounting Standards (IPSAS) and included all sources of funds of the  Organization. The results showed net deficits in the 2013 and 2014 financial periods. In 2014, the deficit was 40% lower  owing to improvements in the general fund and extrabudgetary funds. Revenue increased by 0.4%, mainly owing to the  euro assessed contributions converted into United States dollars at a higher exchange rate in 2014. Expenses  decreased mainly owing to employee expenses and other expenses, such as the foreign exchange losses variation. On  performance by segment, the regular programme segment recorded a lower deficit of $35.2 million, compared to $64.5  million in 2013, which was largely attributable to an increase in revenue (more voluntary contributions and exchange rate  variations) and a decrease in expenses, particularly a reduction of employee benefit expenses.
8.54 The Organization’s overall net assets position, for the first time, was a negative -$241.5 million, compared to a  positive balance previously, in 2013, which meant that the Organization had more liabilities than assets. The negative  position was attributable to the significant increase in the ASHI liability from $0.7 billion in 2010 to $1.3 billion in 2014.  Outstanding assessed contributions from Member States had also increased from $72 million in 2010 to $353 million in
8.55 On the status of the five outstanding audit recommendations, three of them were subject to resolutions  proposed for consideration at the current session of the General Conference. On a query about the exchange rate and  the frequency of adjustments that would need to be made to adjust the exchange rate, the External Auditor reiterated the  need to use a euro/dollar budget rate that was closer to economic reality in order to avoid all adjustments and inherent  risks.
8.56 The External Auditor was also thanked for his work in highlighting the issues regarding the use of the  Emergency Fund and the proposal to close it in 2015. Member States agreed with his assessment that the action would  have been premature and contrary to the relevant regulations. Ultimately, the Emergency Fund was not closed, and its  balance was proposed to support the programmes in the next biennium under the ZNG+ scenario. It was pointedly stated  that the date of the opening of an account was the date of the opening of an account and no other interpretation was  possible or appropriate. It was stressed that the General Conference should duly be informed of any breach of  regulations.
8.57 Mr President, the last items on the agenda: item 5.2 “Follow-up of the United Nations Joint Inspection Unit (JIU)  recommendations concerning the methods of work of UNESCO’s intergovernmental bodies - Report by the External  Auditor” and item 5.8 “Governance and working procedures and methods of the governing bodies of UNESCO” were  discussed jointly.
8.58 The External Auditor presented the two documents, recalling the self-evaluation exercise that the Member  States had submitted themselves to, and the audit methods and scope. The Auditor regretted the absence of a  mapping/cartography of the various governing entities. Member States underlined the urgent need to improve  governance and supported the creation of an open working group, which would examine the recommendations of the  evaluation, requiring a more in-depth debate. Member States supported and echoed the draft resolution proposed in that  regard.
8.59 Member States suggested topics for future audits to the External Auditor, whilst recalling that the External  Auditor retained full independence to choose the topics based on his assessment of what was appropriate. Referring to  the organizational change that had led to the creation of the Bureau of Financial Management (BFM), combining the  former comptroller’s office and the budget section, it was suggested that it would be worth verifying that the checks and  balances within BFM were still valid, considering that the implementation of the budget and decisions on expenditures  and the application of accountability framework were currently in the same service. Verification was also requested to  ensure that the decisions taken by BFM complied with the regulations, with particular attention given to FITOCA.
8.60 Along with an evaluation of the 2011/12 road map, to see whether it had been completed, especially in respect  to Executive Officer/Administrative Officer reform, an audit of the “conflict of interest” management in the Organization  was requested. Further suggestions to the External Auditor concerned the “one dollar contracts”, in particular on how the  individuals were selected for that type of contract and what was the basis for their selection, how they were held  accountable, in which sector they were managed, what was their mission and what was the real cost. In other words, if  there were residency, travel, insurance or other costs associated with such contracts. Also questioned was whether they  had diplomatic immunity, whether there were any reputational risks to the Organization associated with the use of one  dollar contracts, and finally the geographical distribution of such contracts.
8.61 The External Auditor was also requested to make suggestions of priority areas for the investment plan in  relation to the new “invest for efficient delivery fund” that the Secretariat was currently working on, for example, by  suggesting the areas where there would be the best return on investment. The changes to the travel policy in 2011 were  also highlighted and an audit of the impact of the policy and how it was implemented was called for. The External Auditor  thanked the Member States for their suggestions and confirmed that a thorough analysis of their input would be made  and taken into account to establish the audit plan for the next biennium.
8.62 Mr President, I would like to conclude this presentation by extending my gratitude to all those who have  contributed to the success of the debates of the APX Commission. This is my final APX Commission report, after serving  four years as Chair of the Finance and Administrative Commission of the Executive Board and Chairperson of the APX  Commission of the General Conference. I wish to congratulate all Member States on what we have achieved in that time,  with consensus on every decision, including the tough ones like budgets, priorities and governance. But we always had a  spirited and usually well-informed debate.
8.63 I also wish to thank the Vice-Chairpersons, Mr Karel Komárek of the Czech Republic, Ms Vera Lacoeuilhe of  Saint Lucia, Mr Joshua Kalinoe of Papua New Guinea and Mr Sylvanus Makokha of Kenya. I would also like to take this  opportunity to express my deep appreciation to the distinguished delegate of Germany, Mr Stefan Krawielicki, who  chaired the working group on voting rights. I would also like to extend my thanks to the Chairperson of the Headquarters  Committee, His Excellency Ambassador Islam of Bangladesh, for his presentation to the Commission.
8.64 Mr President, the rapid pace of the discussions and decisions taken in the APX Commission may have  surprised some and I do believe that it was thanks to the excellent preparatory work that the Executive Board Members  had undertaken, in turn duly assisted ably by the Preparatory Group. I suggested at the 37th session of the General  Conference and I once again suggest that the General Conference next time schedule two days less for the APX  Commission, even more so since the Executive Board will henceforth meet more regularly.
8.65 Now, in further expressing my gratitude I would also like extend my thanks to the Director-General, the Deputy  Director-General and all their representatives, in particular to Mr Tang, the Officer in charge of the Bureau of Strategic  Planning (BSP) and Mr Le Saux the Deputy Director of BSP; the Director of the Internal Oversight Service (IOS); the  Legal Adviser; the Director of the Bureau of Human Resources Management; the Director of the Bureau for the  Management of Support Services (MSS); the Director of the Division of Knowledge Management and Information  Systems (KMI), the Chief Financial Officer (CFO) and all the other senior officials who assisted us. My thanks goes also  to our interpreters and translators, conference room clerks and screen typists. I also take this opportunity to thank  everyone who provided me, as the Chair of the Finance and Administrative Commission of the Board over the last two  years, with their help and advice, especially on the delicate work we undertook to strike a consensus on the budget  scenario.
8.66 Mr President, in particular, I wish to thank you for your help and guidance and our productive exchanges and  your support to the APX Commission, and last and by absolutely no means least I want to thank the Secretary of the  APX Commission, Mr Sachin Bhatt, who has accompanied me in my work as FA Chair for four years. I also thank from  the bottom of my heart his team, Juan, Olive, Eunice, Virginie, Emily and Raihana for their excellent support. Thank you  very much.
9. The President:    Thank you very much, Ambassador Sudders, for your comprehensive presentation and for your very able  stewardship of the work of the Commission. I believe it was a journey worth travelling. Are there any comments or  objections on document 38 C/90? If there are no objections, may I assume that the General Conference takes note of the  report of the APX Commission and adopts the draft resolution contained in it, subject to the decisions that the General  Conference may take on budgetary issues when adopting the Appropriation Resolution for the next biennium. I see no  objection. It is so decided.
10. Saint Lucia:   I am not objecting Mr President. I want to speak after you.
11. The President:   You want to speak after the adoption? Thank you very much, Saint Lucia. Let me then invite Saint Lucia to take  the floor.
12. Saint Lucia:   Mr President, I would just like to thank the Chairperson of the APX Commission for his report and express the  gratitude of my delegation for his hard work and commitment to defending the values of the Organization. He has been a  consensus builder on most complicated issues such as the one on the budget. The door of his FA/APX office has always  been open to those of us who needed his assistance. Finally, through you, Mr President, I would like to thank  Ambassador Sudders, the person, for his great spirit, humour, integrity and courage. Thank you.
13. The President:    Thank you very much. Indeed, your President here can attest to that, having been a Member of the Executive  Board. So I wish to congratulate you, Ambassador Sudders, as Chairperson of the APX Commission and thank all the  members of the Commission for the most efficient work.
14. The President:   Your Excellencies, the next item on our agenda for this afternoon is the report of the Education Commission. I  would therefore like to give the floor to His Excellency, Mr Alexis Kalenius, Vice-Chairperson of the Education  Commission, who will introduce the report contained in document 38 C/91 on behalf of the Commission. Sir, you have  the floor.
15.1 Mr Kalenius (Finland) (Vice-Chairperson of the Education Commission):   Mr President of the General Conference, Madam Director-General, honourable ministers, distinguished  delegates, ladies and gentlemen. The Education Commission of the 38th session of the General Conference has  completed its proceedings and I have the privilege, on behalf of the Chairperson and the Commission, to submit to you  the main conclusions of our three days of intensive and fruitful discussions, which successfully covered 13 agenda items.
15.2 Ladies and gentlemen, distinguished delegates, let me start by recalling briefly the opening of the Commission  on Thursday 5 November. In her opening remarks, the Chairperson invited the Commission to weigh the significance of  the current year and all that it represented for the international community, for education and for UNESCO. Significance  because of the United Nations’ and UNESCO’s 70th birthday, and our 70 years’ continued commitment to building peace  in the minds of men and women along with the fundamental role of education in that process.
15.3 The Chairperson reminded the Commission of how 2015 had been a year calling for reflective and introspective  assessments. It was the year in which the Millennium Development Goals (MDGs) and the education for all (EFA) goals  came to a close. We have all assessed the successes – and the shortcomings – in reaching the targets. But 2015 was  the year when countries worked to shape and adopt a new development agenda, concretized in September with the  adoption of 17 Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) in the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development.
15.4 Education is central to the new sustainable development agenda, with Sustainable Development Goal (SDG) 4  seeking to “ensure inclusive and equitable quality education and promote lifelong learning opportunities for all”. Opening  our deliberations, we had the benefit of the outcomes of the high-level meeting that took place on 4 November, where  Ministers discussed the Education 2030 Agenda and adopted its Framework for Action.
15.5 The Chairperson called upon the Commission to view education not in isolation from other Sustainable  Development Goals (SDGs), but rather encouraged us all to consider that the realization of SDG 4 was essential for the  success of all the others. The challenge ahead was both to give attention to the complex interrelationships between  education and key development sectors and also to determine which education strategies, policies and programmes are  most effectively linked to the economic, social, environmental and political priorities of the new sustainable development  agenda as a whole.
15.6 Let me now turn to debate 1 and debate 4, the items of which were linked to Education 2030, including the role  of UNESCO in the implementation of Education 2030, as well as more programmatic dimensions relating to the  programme and budget of the Education Sector and the contribution of different stakeholders including youth. Four items  were covered under the debates: item 3.4, “Preparation of the Draft Programme and Budget for 2018-2021 (39 C/5)”;  item 4.14, “UNESCO’s role in the implementation of the Education 2030 Agenda”; item 4.5, “Conclusions of the Youth  Forum” as regards education; and item 3.2, on the “Consideration and adoption of the Draft Budget for 2016-2017” for  Major Programme I – Education.
15.7 In introducing the debates, the Assistant Director-General for Education praised the achievements realized  during the past two years in charting the Education 2030 Agenda. Recalling the long and thorough consultation process  and the concerted efforts by the Member States and the global education community to promote a single, renewed  education agenda, Education 2030, recognizing the unfinished business of EFA, yet going beyond, with a universal and  holistic approach, the Assistant Director-General for Education also warned us that looking ahead, the real work was just  about to start, as the implementation of Education 2030 would be a massive undertaking requiring all stakeholders’  investment and engagement, with UNESCO playing a key role in the leadership and coordination.
15.8 The Assistant Director-General for Education recalled how document 38 C/54 outlined three key roles for  UNESCO in the implementation of SDG 4: (i) leading coordination and partnership building; (ii) reviewing/monitoring and  reporting progress towards the achievement of the education targets; and (iii) supporting the Member States in the  implementation.
15.9 With regards to the preparation of the Draft Programme and Budget for 2018-2021 (39 C/5), the Assistant  Director-General for Education laid forth how the Organization would further capitalize on its multidisciplinary expertise  and enhance its intersectoral approach in the implementation of the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs).
15.10 Concerning the draft budget for 2016-2017 (38 C/5), the Assistant Director-General for Education reminded the  Education Commission that it was asked to adopt the budget allocation only for the next two years (2016-2017), with  some minor programmatic changes taking into account recent developments, in particular Education 2030, as the last  General Conference had adopted the quadrennial programme for 2014-2017.
15.11 The Assistant Director-General for Education explained the few adjustments introduced in the Education  programme with the view to ensuring that the Sector was better “fit for purpose” to respond fully and effectively to  Education 2030. He highlighted that those adjustments concerned mainly main line of action (MLA) 3, the title of which  had been revised in the light of the 2030 Agenda and currently read “Leading and coordinating the Education 2030  Agenda through partnerships, monitoring and research”.
15.12 A total of 38 Member States and 10 observers participated in the first debate on draft document 39 C/5,  Education 2030 and the Youth Forum, while 15 Member States took the floor to share their views during the fourth  debate regarding the draft budget of document 38 C/5.
15.13 The Commission expressed its appreciation for the leadership of the Director-General in developing Education
2030 and its Framework for Action. Many delegates voiced their support to UNESCO’s role as leader and coordinator of  Education 2030. Delegates also supported the adoption of the draft budget and the review of the main line of action,  which they considered reflected well the high priority given to education by the Organization and its role in leading and  coordinating Education 2030. Furthermore, its role as standard-setter through its normative instruments in areas such as  higher education and technical and vocational education and training (TVET) was emphasized.
15.14 Many Member States also expressed their full commitment to the new Education 2030 Agenda. The  fundamental responsibility of the Members States in the implementation of Education 2030 was reiterated by many  Member States and observers. They emphasized that UNESCO had a critical role in supporting the Member States in  the implementation of the agenda.
15.15 The Education Commission urged the Director-General to clearly define how UNESCO would implement  Education 2030, using the adopted Framework for Action as a reference for its programmes, and how it would contribute  to the other Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). In that context, the Commission requested UNESCO to  communicate to the Member States the new structure that would be put in place to implement Education 2030.
15.16 The Commission also encouraged the Organization to further pursue results-based management (RBM) and  highlighted the importance of monitoring and favouring the outputs of its programmes to assess their viability in the walk  towards the achievement of the 2030 Agenda.
15.17 In addition, the Education Commission strongly urged UNESCO to support the implementation of Education
2030 in close partnership with the existing UNESCO networks such as category 1 institutes, category 2 centres,  UNESCO National Commissions, UNESCO Associated Schools Project Network (ASPnet), UNESCO International  Centre for Technical and Vocational Education and Training and UNEVOC Network, University Twinning and Networking  Programme (UNITWIN), Global Network of Learning Cities, Goodwill Ambassadors and Special Envoys.
15.18 The comparative advantage of UNESCO in the field of monitoring and statistics relating to education was also  highlighted by many members of the Commission. The delegates urged UNESCO to collect relevant data with the view  to informing decision making. In that regard, the UNESCO Institute for Statistics (UIS) was considered as a key player.  The work of the EFA Global Monitoring Report (GMR), which had been renamed Global Education Monitoring Report  (GEM Report) was also appreciated. Many delegates stressed that sufficient funds and human resources should be  allocated to both UIS and the GEM Report.
15.19 In that context, the role of UNESCO in supporting the Member States in developing the capacity for collecting  data, managing statistics and monitoring in the field of education was considered by the delegates to be of utmost  importance. The Commission encouraged UNESCO to support the development of national education statistics services.
15.20 The importance of promoting lifelong learning and quality education was reiterated by many delegates.  Education as a fundamental human right and the importance of bridging formal, non-formal and informal education were  stressed by a number of delegates. Qualified teachers were considered of critical importance in delivering quality  education. The Commission urged UNESCO to pay particular attention to technical and vocational education and training  (TVET) and to reinforcing the relationship between education and the world of work. Delegates also called for the  consideration of linkages between early childhood care and education, including the implications on learners’  performances. Information and communication technologies (ICTs) were mentioned by many delegates as drivers for  promoting access to and quality of education. The critical role of parents in participating in the education processes of  children was highlighted by several observers.
15.21 UNESCO’s work on global citizenship education (GCED) and education for sustainable development (ESD)  were also appreciated and the Commission urged UNESCO to continue its efforts and work to promote those areas.  Promotion of cultural diversity in view of fostering global citizenship was considered to be one of the fields in which  UNESCO should contribute through greater intersectoral cooperation.
15.22 Many members of the Education Commission stressed that the focus of Education 2030 should be on the  vulnerable and marginalized, girls and women, children and indigenous people. Several Member States commended the  two global priorities of UNESCO: global priority Africa and global priority gender equality. Delegates urged UNESCO to  continue prioritizing countries in Africa and small island developing States. The importance of South-South cooperation  and North-South cooperation in that regard was emphasized.
15.23 The importance of involving youth in the decision-making processes of UNESCO was highlighted. The  contribution of youth through the UNESCO Youth Forum was well appreciated and the recommendations by the Youth  Forum encouraging schools to be seen as learning communities were welcomed. The Commission suggested that  platforms be provided for young people to participate in Education 2030.
15.24 Finally, the central role of education in contributing to the implementation of several Sustainable Development  Goals (SDGs) was highlighted. UNESCO’s unique mandate of working in the fields of education, culture, science and  communications was considered to be an important comparative advantage. Many Member States urged UNESCO to  improve its intersectoral cooperation with a view to fostering its contribution across the SDGs, in particular in the areas of  health, democracy, gender and climate change.
15.25 In his response, the Assistant Director-General for Education warmly thanked all the delegates for their  comments and wide appreciation for UNESCO’s work and their support of its leadership and coordination role for the  implementation of Education 2030. Taking careful note of their demands and visions during the debates, he referred to  the summaries prepared by the secretariats of each commission to be submitted at the last joint meeting of commissions  on 18 November, as the first phase of a series of consultations, which would lead to the formulation of the Director- General’s preliminary proposals concerning document 39 C/5.
15.26 He also responded to the concern expressed as to how to start addressing the major challenges in  implementing the new agenda by emphasizing how UNESCO, using its convening power, strategically positioned itself  as a platform, inviting Member States, United Nations agencies and other stakeholders to be part of the steering  committee for Education 2030, the new mechanism for coordination, and by reaffirming the Education Sector’s  commitment to strengthen an intersectoral approach, together with other sectors, also drawing on the Organization’s  comparative advantages.
15.27 The proposed resolution on UNESCO’s role in the implementation of Education 2030 was adopted with  amendments proposed by some Member States.
15.28 The Commission adopted the draft resolutions relating to Major Programme I and its seven category 1 institutes,  contained in volume I of document 38 C/5 as amended by documents 38 C/6, 38C/6 Addendum and 38 C/6 Addendum 2,  as well as orally by the Commission. The five draft resolutions submitted by Member States, as contained in document
38 C/8 regarding Major Programme I were all adopted by the Commission, some taking into account the Director- General’s observations.
15.29 Following adoption of those draft resolutions, the Commission moved to the second debate which included two  items, namely item 6.3 related to the preliminary report concerning the preparation of a global convention on the  recognition of higher education qualifications, and item 7.8 on the consolidated report on the implementation of the 1993  Recommendation on the Recognition of Studies and Qualifications in Higher Education.
15.30 Some 27 Member States and 1 observer took the floor to address the two items. Many Member States  welcomed the preliminary report concerning the preparation of a global convention on the recognition of higher education  qualifications and its findings. Strong support was expressed by almost all Member States taking the floor in favour of the  development of such a global convention. In addition, a number of countries stated their readiness and desire to  participate in the drafting committee to be convened.
15.31 The need for such a global standard-setting instrument was highlighted by some States in the absence of any  legally binding framework at the international level regulating the recognition of higher education qualifications.  Furthermore, the initiative was recognized by many as being more relevant than ever, given the current context of the  migrant crisis and rising numbers of refugees. The future instrument’s potential to support and accompany academic and  professional mobility was praised.
15.32 The envisaged process was commended for how it would contribute to increasing transparency, quality, equity  and reciprocity by many States. Quality assurance was one of the key principles that was underlined, so as to ensure  that recognition mechanisms were reliable and trusted. In improving quality assurance systems, the instrument would  also become a tool against fraud.
15.33 The diversity of national education systems as well as other local specificities, such as national government  structures, led several Member States to call for a flexible approach, emphasizing common values but allowing regional  and national differences to be taken into consideration.
15.34 One of the dominant and recurrent views expressed was that of the importance of the regional conventions.  Their implementation needed to be further strengthened and their revision processes continued. Many agreed that the  development of a global convention should take into consideration the already existing regional ones and build upon  them, identifying common principles but also examining the specificities, given the importance of not having  contradictions between the regional and global conventions.
15.35 Member States called upon UNESCO to strengthen the capacity building offered to further develop the higher  education system at the national level as well as for the functioning of the regional conventions. The consultative process  outlined in the report received broad support. Some Member States expressed concerns over the costs issues implied in  the development and especially the implementation of such a global convention.
15.36 In his response, the representative of the Director-General thanked Member States for their broad support for  the work on the global instrument and took due note of the reserves expressed by Member States, in particular the need  for general principles allowing the accommodation of local specificities, as well as the importance of continued support  for the ongoing process of revising the regional conventions. Responding to the concerns regarding the funding – a  preoccupation for the Secretariat also – he recalled that the implementation of a global instrument would rely on the  existing structures put in place for the regional instruments, but did also express his hope that Member States would be  attentive to the additional funding needs.
15.37 The draft resolution concerning the preparation of a global convention was adopted with amendments by  several Member States, and the draft resolution concerning the consolidated report on the implementation of the 1993  Recommendation was adopted with the amendments made by the Legal Committee as well as an additional amendment  proposed by one Member State.
15.38 The third debate addressed the implementation of 37 C/Resolution 67 concerning educational and cultural  institutions in the occupied Arab territories. The proposed resolution on the item was adopted without debate. Six  Member States made statements on the item after the adoption of the resolution.
15.39 Fellow delegates, ladies and gentlemen, as I already summarized debate four at the outset of this report, we  shall now turn to debate five which included the examination of two revised normative instruments: the Recommendation  on Adult Learning and Education and the Recommendation concerning Technical and Vocational Education and Training.
15.40 The representative of the Director-General started to introduce the items by reminding the Commission of the  consultation and drafting processes followed since the 37th session of the General Conference where it was decided to  undertake their revision. Some 22 Member States and 5 observers expressed their views on the items.
15.41 Broad support for the revision of both recommendations was expressed, welcoming the suggested changes to  their texts, which were deemed to accurately reflect the realities and challenges, as well as national priorities. Both were  considered, as new international standards, crucial to accompanying the implementation of Education 2030.
15.42 Member States expressed their satisfaction with the consultation processes and commended UNESCO and the  UNESCO Institute for Lifelong Learning (UIL) for the synergies they enabled for the development of both texts and the  comprehensiveness, depth and innovativeness of the consultations.
15.43 Several delegates called upon all Member States to ensure that the provisions of the recommendations would  be integrated into national legislations, policies, and be financed so as to not remain merely aspirational. Specificities of  Member States and their local conditions were recalled to emphasize the need for flexibility in the implementation of the  recommendations.
15.44 The importance of developing lifelong learning, including through the recognition, validation and accreditation of  non-formal and informal learning, through the establishment of national qualifications frameworks and through the  development of pathways and permeable systems was repeatedly stressed by Member States, commending the  recommendations for their perspectives on that.
15.45 In light of how technical and vocational education and training (TVET) and adult learning and education both fell  within the remit of various sectors and required the engagement of various stakeholders, Member States commended  the recommendations for underlining the importance of intersectoral policies, inter-ministerial work and stakeholders’  involvement.
15.46 The recognition of the diversity of forms of learning encompassed in both texts, as well as the promotion of the  use of information and communication technology (ICTs) and online forms of education and learning were warmly  welcomed. Specific importance was given to the development of teaching and training staff, as well as to ensure that  TVET and adult learning and education truly included all, comprising marginalized and vulnerable people, in particular  girls and women. The establishment of an informal group called “Friends of TVET”, with the purpose of sharing  experiences in the area, was mentioned and an invitation was extended to all Member States to support the group. The  work accomplished by the UNESCO International Centre for Technical and Vocational Education and Training (UNEVOC)  was also appreciated and deemed as essential for supporting the Member States in the implementation of the  Recommendation.
15.47 In their responses, the representatives of the Director-General thanked Member States for their appreciation of  both the consultation processes and outcomes. With regard to the Recommendation on Adult Learning and Education,  the representative of the Director-General indicated how its monitoring and promotion would be a part of the monitoring  of the Belem Framework for Action. The Recommendation concerning Technical and Vocational Education and Training  (TVET) would be given due attention in the development of a new TVET strategy, which would identify new approaches  and avenues to implement and monitor the Recommendation. The two draft resolutions were adopted, each as amended  by one Member State.
15.48 Debate 6 covered items relating to the management of the education-related category 1 institutes, and to the  establishment of two new category 2 institutes and centres. Presentations of reports on the 2014-2015 activities were  given by the chairpersons or the representatives of the governing boards of six UNESCO category 1 institutes in  education, namely: the UNESCO International Bureau of Education (IBE); the UNESCO International Institute for  Educational Planning (IIEP), the UNESCO Institute for Lifelong Learning (UIL), the UNESCO Institute for Information  Technologies in Education (IITE), the UNESCO Institute for Capacity-Building in Africa (IICBA); and the Mahatma  Gandhi Institute of Education for Peace and Sustainable Development (MGIEP).
15.49 The report of the UNESCO International Institute for Higher Education in Latin America and the Caribbean  (IESALC) was presented by the Director of the Institute. The institutes’ presentations were followed by a presentation by  the Director of the UNESCO Office in Santiago de Chile on the Regional Education Project for Latin America and the  Caribbean (PRELAC). When introducing the items under debate, the Assistant Director-General for Education recalled  some background elements, namely the comprehensive review of the then six education-related category 1 institutes  jointly undertaken by the Education Sector and UNESCO’s Internal Oversight Service (IOS) with a view to identifying  ways to improve their management, as well as the report by the External Auditor on the governance and financial  reporting of the institutes. He then explained how the Education Sector had duly taken into consideration the
302  recommendations of IOS and the External Auditor, by accomplishing steady progress in improving the management of  the education-related category 1 institutes in three key areas, namely (i) programme management and coordination;  (ii) financial and budget management; and (iii) human resources management.
15.50 Twenty Member States took the floor for the debate and the discussions that ensued showed the overall  appreciation of Member States for the Institute’s work. Tribute was paid to the work done to make management more  transparent and UNECO was encouraged to continue implementing the recommendations of IOS and the External  Auditor. A call was made to clarify the mandates so as to avoid duplication and foster each institute’s specific role in  contributing to Education 2030 in complementary ways.
15.51 The importance of IESALC as the only category 1 institute in higher education was recalled by many Member  States, especially those from the Latin America and the Caribbean region.
15.52 The representative of the Director-General took due note of the importance of making sure there would be no  duplication in the implementation of Education 2030, in which the institutes had an important role to play. He mentioned  the six-year strategic plan developed for IESALC with the view to ensuring sustainable core funding. He also welcomed,  for IITE, the willingness by the host country to provide further core funding. The draft resolution on the management of  the education-related category 1 institutes, including the revisions to the statutes of IBE and IITE, were approved with an  amendment by one Member State.
15.53 The second agenda item under the debate dealt with the proposals for the establishment of two category 2  centres, one in Bangladesh – namely the International Mother Language Institute – and the other in China – namely the  International Centre for Higher Education Innovation. The proposals to establish the centres were supported by several  Member States and the item was adopted without debate.
15.54 Ladies and gentlemen, let me now turn to our seventh and last debate, which covered item 4.18 concerning the  proclamation of 5 November as “World Day of Romani Language”. One Member State and one observer expressed  support for the draft resolution, which was adopted without amendments.
15.55 Distinguished delegates, I have now completed my presentation on the work of the Education Commission.  Allow me to conclude my presentation by congratulating the members of the Commission for a very participatory meeting  with intense and constructive debates, which, I believe, will now allow the Education Sector to move forward as it  embarks on the demanding journey towards 2030. I would also like to thank the representative of the Director-General,  the Assistant Director-General for Education, Mr Qian Tang, for the useful clarifications he provided to the Commission,  which allowed it to carry out its work. Let me also thank the members of the secretariat of the ED Commission for their  dedication and professionalism. I thank you for your attention.
16. The President:   Thank you very much Your Excellency for the presentation. Are there any comments or suggestions on this  report? May I then consider that the General Conference takes note of the report of the Education Commission.  Dominican Republic, you have the floor.
(17) Dominican Republic (translation from the Spanish):    Thank you, Mr President. I wish to congratulate the Commission on Education for the work it has performed and, in  particular, its Chairperson, Kris Rampersad, who carried out that function on behalf of the Latin America and Caribbean Group  (GRULAC) and brought her dynamism to the Commission’s work. The results were very successful, with Member States  expressing very positive opinions. I wish to request specifically that these remarks by the Dominican Republic appear in the  record of the meeting. Thank you.
18. The President:   Thank you very much. Indeed, we have taken note of that comment. Any further interventions? I see none.  Belize.
19. Belize:   Thank you Mr President. I wish to thank the presenters of the APX Commission and Education Commission  reports, particularly the Chairpersons and Vice-Chairpersons of those commissions. They have done a wonderful job. Mr  President, I wish to especially mention Ambassador Sudders. He is a brilliant young man who I have grown to admire  and I hope he will vie for other leadership roles at UNESCO. I wish to give particular and special mention to my  distinguished colleague from Trinidad and Tobago, Ms Kris Ramprasad. Ms Ramprasad has done such a stellar job. She  was resolute, composed, humorous, distinguished, competent, excellent, articulate, abled and qualified. I saw her in  person myself. She performed exemplarily, with fidelity and zeal, and this is the same way I have seen her perform on  the Executive Board, especially when she took the chair of the PX Commission as Vice-Chair. Ms Ramprasad has given  of her time and talent selflessly and I hold her in high esteem. I wish to congratulate her on her team for her extraordinary  service, not just for Trinidad and Tobago but also, as the Dominican Republic said, for the Latin American and Caribbean  Group (GRULAC), and not just GRULAC, she was also doing service for the world, since we are the world. Thank you  very much, Mr President.
20.1 The President:   Thank you very much. Indeed, we are the world. May I then consider that the General Conference takes note of  the report of the Education Commission and hereby adopts the draft resolutions proposed in document 38 C/91, subject  to the decision that the Conference may take when adopting the Appropriation Resolution for 2016-2017? Thank you  very much. It is so decided. I wish to once again congratulate all members of the Education Commission under the able  leadership of the Chairperson for their good work and the efficiency with which they tackled their agenda.
20.2 Dear colleagues, we have thus finished our work for today. As mentioned at the beginning of this meeting, there  will be no plenary session tomorrow. The plenary will reconvene on Monday, 16 November 2015, at 10 a.m. for the  Leaders’ Forum. We will have the great honour to receive several heads of State and government on the occasion of the
70th anniversary of UNESCO. I would strongly recommend that you be in Room I at 9.45 a.m. sharp so as to welcome  our distinguished visitors. I will now give the floor to the Secretary who will provide some information on this particular  event.
21. Le Secrétaire:   Merci, Monsieur le Président. À l’occasion du Forum des dirigeants de la 38e session de la Conférence générale  de l’UNESCO, les 16 et 17 novembre, la Conférence générale recevra, le lundi 16 novembre, les Présidents de la  République islamique d’Iran, de la Bulgarie, du Cameroun, de l’ex-République yougoslave de Macédoine, du Gabon, de  la Libye, de la Lituanie et de la Mongolie. Le mardi 17 novembre, la Conférence générale recevra le Premier Ministre du  Bangladesh, puis les Présidents de Malte, de l’Azerbaïdjan, du Mali et de la France. Le programme détaillé du Forum  des dirigeants et des interventions des hautes personnalités gouvernementales qui s’y exprimeront sera affiché sur les  écrans et dans le bulletin d’information des délégués en ligne.
21.2 S’agissant de la soirée de célébration du 70e anniversaire de notre Organisation, le 16 novembre, la cérémonie  commencera par un concert de l’Orchestre mondial pour la paix (World Peace Orchestra), proclamé « Artiste pour la  paix de l’UNESCO », à 19 heures dans la salle I. Ensuite, la Directrice générale et trois anciens directeurs généraux de  l’Organisation, MM. M’Bow, Mayor et Matsuura, feront une allocution pour célébrer cet anniversaire.
21.3 La cérémonie sera suivie, à 20 h 45, du lancement d’une projection multimédia unique sur les façades du  bâtiment du Siège de l’UNESCO, visible de la piazza Suffren, du hall Ségur, du restaurant du 7e étage ainsi que de  l’avenue de Lowendal. La projection architecturale, d’un cycle de 15 minutes, sera rediffusée en continu jusqu’à minuit.  Les délégués pourront venir voir la projection le 17 novembre aussi, de 18 heures à minuit. La projection sera montrée  une dernière fois le 18 novembre, à partir de 18 heures jusqu’à minuit également.
21.4 Enfin, la cérémonie de remise du prix international UNESCO-Guinée équatoriale pour la recherche en sciences  de la vie aura lieu demain, samedi 14 novembre, à 15 heures, en présence de S. E. M. Teodoro Obiang Nguema  Mbasogo, Président de la Guinée équatoriale. La salle I devant être réaménagée pour préparer cette cérémonie, tous les  délégués sont invités à retirer leurs effets personnels et documents et à ne rien laisser dans la salle dès la clôture de  cette séance plénière. Je vous remercie, Monsieur le Président.
22. The President:   Thank you very much, Mr Secretary. Before I adjourn the meeting, let me remind you, dear delegates, Your  Excellencies, that the voting is still open in Room IV. Please, those of you who have not yet voted, before you leave, we  kindly request you to go and submit your vote. On that note, this meeting is now adjourned. Thank you very much and  have a lovely weekend.  The meeting rose at 5.55 p.m.  La séance est levée à 17 h 55  Se levanta la sesión a las 17.55  Заседание закрывается в 17.55  الظهربعد  ٥,٥٥ ةرفعت اسلسة يف الساع   会议于 17 时 55 分结束