1. The President:    Good afternoon ladies and gentlemen. I declare open the seventeenth plenary meeting of the General  Conference, which will be dedicated to the continuation of the Leaders’ Forum of the General Conference, and later on,  the adoption of the report of the Culture Commission. First, we will have the honour of hearing addresses by our  distinguished visitors.   Visit by H.E. Ms Marie-Louise Coleiro Preca, President of the Republic of Malta  Visite de S. E. Mme Marie-Louise Coleiro Preca, Presidente de la République de Malte  Visita de Su Excelencia la Sra Marie-Louise Coleiro Preca, Presidente de la la República de Malta  Визит Ее Превосходительства г-жи Мари-Луизы Колейро Преса, Президента Республики Мальта   لويز بريكا، رئيسة جمهورية مالطا-زيارة فخامة السيدة ماري   马耳他共和国总统玛丽 - 路易斯·科莱罗·普雷卡女士阁下来访
2.1 The President:    Excellencies, ladies and gentlemen, our first speaker this afternoon is Her Excellency Ms Marie-Louise Coleiro  Preca, President of Malta. Ms Coleiro Preca became the ninth President of the Republic of Malta last year, by unanimous  decision of the House of Representatives. Her Excellency thus became the youngest President of her country, and only  the second woman occupying the office of Head of State.
2.2 Her Excellency has been active in politics for the past 40 years, starting at the young age of 16. Within the  Labour Party, she served in a number of positions, including as Secretary General, between 1982 and 1991. Her  Excellency is the only woman who ever occupied this important elected position in a Maltese political party. Her  Excellency also served as a Member of Parliament in the House of Representatives between 1998 and 2014, and as a  reform-minded Minister for the Family and Social Solidarity. Madam President, we are honoured today by your presence,  and are looking forward to hearing your message today. I now have the pleasure of inviting you to take the floor.
3.1 Ms Coleiro Preca (President of Malta):    Madam Director-General, Mr President of the General Conference, Mr Chair of the Executive Board,  Excellencies, distinguished colleagues, we meet here today to commemorate UNESCO’s 70th anniversary. The world of  today is very different from that of seven decades ago. One would hope it is a better world, a world that has grown in its  appreciation of peace, and respect for human rights and human dignity. One would hope that we have learnt lessons  from the past, from our histories that are all touched by the horrors of war and human suffering. I wish we could believe  that the world has transformed itself into a better and more beautiful place.
3.2 Yet how can we possibly think that our progress has been sufficient, in light of the events that took place last  week in Beirut, in Paris, and in other parts of the world? Lives have been destroyed, families have been torn apart, and  livelihoods disrupted. Our peace of mind is under attack, by the purveyors of fear and terror. We are confronted, in their  acts of directed cruelty, with a stark reminder of the evil that hides behind a mask of ideology, of perverted religion, of  disordered culture. And yet this cannot be so.
3.3 Culture grows from the ground of altruism. It is built on cooperation and connection. The roots of culture find  deep and enriching sustenance in the relationships we form, within our homes and our communities, in openness and in  respect, and in care of the ultimate fragility of the Other. In the words of Martin Buber, the philosopher, “All actual life is  encounter”, by which I understand him to mean that it is only in authentic encounters, even with those whose life paths  seem most distant from our own, that we may initiate the kind of dialogue that shall lead to enduring and sustainable  peace.
3.4 The opportunity presented by this Conference is of vital importance. In thinking about a vision for UNESCO’s  future, we are invited to consider those people, those children, who today most keenly need our help as an international  community. In thinking about this future, we are challenged to find ways to foster peace and understanding on a global  scale. UNESCO must be reoriented towards today’s concerns, securing its relevance and affirming its mandate to foster  a lasting peace.
3.5 I firmly believe that the founding mandate of UNESCO remains as valid today as it was 70 years ago. UNESCO  remains critical in facilitating networks of solidarity between different communities at national, regional and global levels  and in providing a carefully considered understanding of the challenges faced by humanity.
3.6 One of the Organization’s key roles must be the championing of culture as a force for dialogue. Culture opens  spaces where even the most embittered enemies and the most distant communities can come together, held by the spirit  of human creativity and imagination. UNESCO is a driver for social cohesion, for economic growth, innovation, and  sustainable development.
3.7 Culture provides a context in which the work of conflict resolution and transformation can take place, a common
353  denominator that can bridge difficult situations. Culture promotes mutual understanding and highlights shared priorities  that transcend seemingly insurmountable barriers.
3.8 As an international community now committed to the ambitious Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), we  must remember that development is inseparably linked with the realities of culture. We must listen to cultural practitioners,  and accept that their knowledge brings with it a subtle wisdom that can give depth and quality to the goals we envision. A  vision in which diversity is celebrated, and mutual respect is given freely and openly. A vision that shall, if given its due  importance, ensure that the atrocities we have recently witnessed shall not be repeated.
3.9 As leaders we must make sure that the principles of cultural diversity motivate all spheres of policy-making, at  every level. This approach needs to inform the way we do things, and needs to play an integral role in our practices, our  legislation and all other instruments and institutions through which the lives of our communities are affected.
3.10 UNESCO must be encouraged to continue in its role as a champion of culture. It must continue to foster  intercultural understanding, by protecting heritage, supporting and celebrating the diversity of our planet’s human culture.  It is especially important that UNESCO continue to be a key voice for education so that every child, regardless of gender  or socio-economic status, has access to quality education as a fundamental human right and as a prerequisite for human  development.
3.11 In deliberating on our vision for UNESCO’s future, we must build on this legacy. We must capitalize on  UNESCO’s strengths, to address the challenges and opportunities that exist today. The SDGs agreed upon at the United  Nations Summit highlight some of the present challenges. In my address at the summit some weeks ago, I shared a  vision for the future with my fellow leaders. The truth is that we are at a crossroads, a moment in time in which unity and  global solidarity are of key importance. We must make a renewed commitment to safeguarding human dignity and  human rights, not for the privileged few but for each and every one of us, wherever we live and whatever our  circumstances.
3.12 Today, we still face a situation where poverty affects millions worldwide. Food security, gender inequality,  access to education and threats to sustainability are some of the many challenges that require a concerted effort by the  international community. The SDGs provide excellent guidelines on what truly merits the attention of world leaders at this  critical moment in our history.
3.13 As leaders, future generations will judge us by the efforts we make. We must come together as partners to  deliver tangible results and produce a real change that shall benefit all humankind. The role of UNESCO is critical, a  guide and a companion in our journey. We need to see this moment in our history as an opportunity for the global  community to uncover the root causes of inequality. We must openly and honestly explore the structural inequalities that  perpetuate harmful cycles of privilege and oppression and, in the process, damage the lives of countless millions.
3.14 Let us also remember that measuring economic success is not enough. We often witness economies performing  excellently in terms of economic output but the standards of living do not reflect a similar and corresponding  improvement. Economies would, in many cases, register growth but people in poverty or at risk of poverty would still face  the same precarious situations with devastating consequences for their future. This approach must change, and we thus  need to be more comprehensive in our policy formulation and in the way we measure improvement.
3.15 In essence we need to go beyond measuring economic indicators and basing our policies exclusively on  economic factors. We need to take into consideration wellbeing indicators within our communities, because these are  determinants that are of equal importance. The means to measure wellbeing already exist. We need to use these  innovative approaches to come up with policies that strengthen and nurture our communities, not only on the economic  front but on all fronts, and place human wellbeing at the heart of our concerns.
3.16 As leaders, we are in a strategic position to make a difference. We need to make sure that equal access to  opportunities is a reality for all. UNESCO’s mandate to secure access to these basic rights is thus maintained. As leaders,  we need to fully support the Organization’s work in these essential areas. My vision for UNESCO’s future is that it should  always remain a global leader in advancing knowledge and understanding among people; in championing true equality;  in furthering popular education and culture; and in increasing and diffusing knowledge on a global scale.
3.17 We also need to think about the tragedies that continue to unfold in this day and age. Migration is a reality that  persists in creating situations of great concern. We need to continue finding tangible, dignity-affirming ways of addressing  migration, anchored in a rights-based approach. Most importantly, we need to think about every human being risking  their life at this very moment. We must ensure that no more lives are put at risk.
3.18 Our meeting here today will undoubtedly make headlines throughout the world. Nonetheless, those same news  headlines will also include grim stories about migrants and their often thwarted journey in search of better lives, or mere  life itself! In determining UNESCO’s role and its place in the future, it is therefore essential that the Organization continue  to place emphasis on the human face of migration. It is imperative that it continue to address the implications of the  movement of peoples within its fields of competence. It is necessary that UNESCO, in an unhindered manner, continue  to anchor its interventions within the framework of universal human rights.
3.19 Dear friends, gender equality is another SDG, and one of UNESCO's global priorities. Gender equality is an  affirmation of basic human dignity, and is necessary to create sustainable and peaceful societies. It is a fundamental  component in development. We must recognize that issues of gender are strongly linked with other goals, and will have  tremendous effects on the overall success of the SDGs.
3.20 Even though some progress has been made, the fact is that women, girls and gender minorities continue to be
354  disadvantaged throughout the world. This inequality is not limited to location, or to whether their oppression occurs in  poor households or in developing countries. Discrimination occurs in situations of peace with just as devastating an effect  as in situations of conflict.
3.21 Reports continuously show that inequalities persist worldwide, affecting a wide range of rights, including health,  education, public and political life, employment and access to justice. In looking at a more equal future, we must all  recognize that gender inequality negatively impacts all people, regardless of their gender identities. The road toward  gender equality should be viewed not merely as a transfer of opportunities or privileges from one group to another, but as  a fundamental step in the enjoyment of all our rights.
3.22 One of the leading global campaigns on gender equality is the “HeForShe” campaign spearheaded by  UN Women. Together with fellow heads of State, I am committed to this campaign and its message of gender equality.  Together with other champions, we are determined to make a difference in the lives of women and girls worldwide. To  this mandate, I have added a focus on the protection and empowerment of gender minorities through my foundation, the  President’s Foundation for the Wellbeing of Society (PFWS). We encourage all other HeForShe champions to do the  same, recognizing the importance of gender self-determination.
3.23 A key message of the campaign is that gender equality is not an issue faced by women or gender minorities  alone. It is a human rights issue that affects us all. We all stand to benefit from gender equality, which can liberate us  from prescribed social roles and the gender stereotypes of a binary system that must be interrogated and transformed.
3.24 We are here to acknowledge the 70th anniversary of the adoption of UNESCO’s Constitution. Perhaps one of  the most quoted lines of the Constitution is “Since wars begin in the minds of men, it is in the minds of men that the  defences of peace must be constructed”. This notion provides an impetus to acknowledge that UNESCO must continue  to remain committed to peace always, and in all ways. As leaders we must continue to support this mandate, and support  the overarching mission of UNESCO. In line with the Sustainable Development Goals, we must all strive to promote  peaceful and inclusive societies.
3.25 I would like to take this opportunity to share with you a project currently being finalized by PFWS. Together with  a number of international academic and professional partners, we are in the process of establishing an International  Institute for Peace and Wellbeing. We are interested in researching, motivating, and inspiring cultures of peace and  wellbeing, exploring best practices and finding the most efficient and effective systems of knowledge sharing.
3.26 Through this Institute we shall engage with communities, with a special focus on our Mediterranean region. We  want to learn about how communities can achieve wellbeing as active citizens who can effectively access and enjoy their  rights. We want to promote inclusive spaces within societies, as a direct pathway to peace and wellbeing. In line with  UNESCO’s priorities and objectives, we believe the Institute can be instrumental in fostering understanding and peace  on a communal, national, regional and international level.
3.27 We believe that there is a deep need for dialogue. Many of the voices that are calling out, in need of answers,  are met with deafening silence. We wish to be the voice that comes in reply to break the silence, small at first but  insistent in our commitment to the great work at hand. Peace and wellbeing are the two pillars that provide the strongest  foundation for our future and that of future generations. Let us strengthen this foundation by doing all that is within our  power to eradicate poverty, diffuse conflict and ensure the equality of all the members of our human family.
3.28 My fellow leaders, in conclusion, I must mention the role of civil society and its place in the future of UNESCO.  Civil society operates at a grassroots level, in direct contact with the lived experiences and realities of all communities. It  is essential that we continue to collaborate with civil society and give its input the weight and importance it deserves. We  have heard the cries of outrage, despair, fear and confusion provoked by last week’s atrocities. We have been touched  by this great suffering, and we stand here with the heavy task of determining a path forward.
3.29 Once again, UNESCO is called upon at this moment in history to play its part. We must listen and respond to the  hopes of our peoples. We must ensure that we do not fail them. I have no doubt that UNESCO will live up to its mandate,  strengthening its resolve and keeping true to its foundational values. Together, we must promote equality and justice for  all. Together, we must find ways of facilitating and brokering peace. Together, we must strive for the wellbeing of our  world. Thank you.
4.1 The President:    Thank you very much, Your Excellency. On behalf of all Member States, I would like to thank you most sincerely  for a very rich and enlightening speech. Before I proceed, I wish to acknowledge with pleasure, once again, the presence  of His Excellency, the President of Cameroon. Mr President, we have the pleasure of welcoming you back. At the same  time, we have the pleasure of receiving the President of Azerbaijan.
4.2 Thank you very much Your Excellencies, Mr Chair of the Executive Board, Madam Director-General, ladies and  gentlemen. Our next speaker is His Excellency, Mr Miroslav Lajčak, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Foreign  Affairs of Slovakia. Mr Lajčak served as his country’s ambassador in Japan, Serbia and Montenegro, as well as the  Special Representative of the European Union to Bosnia and Herzegovina, before being named the Deputy Prime  Minister of Slovakia three years ago. Your Excellency, we are happy to welcome you to UNESCO, and are looking  forward to hearing your speech. Your Excellency, it is my pleasure and privilege to invite you to take the floor.
5.1 M. Lajčak (Vice-Premier ministre et ministre des Affaires étrangères de la Slovaquie) :    Monsieur le Président, Madame la Directrice générale, Mesdames et Messieurs. La France – berceau des  valeurs démocratiques, des droits de l´homme, de la liberté, de la culture – a été de nouveau brutalement attaquée.  Permettez-moi d´exprimer mes condoléances les plus sincères aux proches des victimes et des blessés. En ce moment
355  tragique, notre pensée, notre soutien et notre solidarité appartiennent à l’audacieux peuple français. Nous sommes tous  Paris !   (L’orateur poursuit en anglais)
5.2 Brutal and barbaric terrorist acts against defenceless civilians deserve our total condemnation. This is inhumane  and goes against any religious beliefs. When some of the witnesses described what happened at the Bataclan theatre,  they said that the terrorists had behaved like machines. Yes, because they lost their souls, their humanity! Without them,  we can turn into machines. Terrorists all around the world – in Paris, Beirut or Kenya – are inhuman machines regardless  of their motivation or ideology. They are simply killers, enemies of humankind. Their way brings no solutions, just death.
5.3 Our immediate spontaneous reaction must be resolve and unity, defence of our values and way of life. It is  crucial that we do not to allow the terrorists to form our agenda. They declared themselves faithful to Islam. They want to  force upon us their perverse version of one of the great world religions, Islam. We all know it is a shameful lie. They  represent no religion. We will not allow them to bring hatred based on religion, race or ethnicity to the people of different  faiths. His Holiness Pope Francis has said in his reaction to Friday’s tragic events in Paris: “The road of violence and  hatred does not resolve humanity’s problems. And using the name of God to justify this road is blasphemy”.
5.4 We in Europe are proud of our historic heritage including ancient Greek and Roman philosophy. We should  remember and occasionally remind ourselves that during the Middle Ages, Greek ideas were largely forgotten in Western  Europe. They re-entered the West through translations from Arabic to Latin thanks to Islamic philosophers such as Al- Kindi (Alkindus), Al-Farabi (Alpharabius), Ibn Sina (Avicenna) and Ibn Rushd (Averroes). The re-introduction of these  philosophies, accompanied by new Arabic commentaries, had a great influence on medieval philosophers such as  Thomas Aquinas. This has been a real contribution of Islam to Europe. We need more Islamic philosophers and  scientists and less hate preachers.
5.5 Mr President, UNESCO is playing and will continue to play a key role in creating a world where there is no room  for terrorists. We have gathered here today to share our views about its future. No terrorist can change that. Our  Organization is celebrating its 70th anniversary. We are going to take stock of our efforts so far. But most importantly, we  are going to help create a vision for the UNESCO of the future, one that is better equipped to deal with global threats and  challenges. Their scale is unprecedented, including violent extremism and international terrorism.
5.6 Mr President, when UNESCO was created 70 years ago, it was in response to the shock and moral crisis  triggered by the Second World War. Lessons learned from its atrocities called for the establishment of the universal  platform for dialogue, to assist States in cooperating and promoting education, culture and science, and to safeguard our  common heritage for the benefit of the nations. Hence, this idea has been firmly rooted as a main objective of UNESCO  in Article I of its Constitution. Education, culture, science, communication and information are genuine parts of our lives,  wherever we live and whatever we do. Human beings simply cannot exist without them. They contribute to the  satisfaction of our material and mental needs, interests and aspirations. They are tools to enrich the welfare of all  humankind. But, unfortunately, they are also abused for the promotion of false ideas and vicious ideologies of terror.
5.7 As our response to the recent wave of terror, the need to define a new humanism is more relevant than ever. It  should be bringing nations and people back together through education, culture, science and communication. We have  to refresh the spirit of London of 1945 and adapt it to the present world, its needs and challenges. UNESCO is a huge  laboratory of thoughts. Let us together make better use of it for the creation of a new humanism further reflected in a new  multilateralism. I fully agree with Madam Director-General Irina Bokova. She calls for a return to the original meaning of  culture. From the very beginning of her tenure she wanted it to be accepted by all of humanity. Because we see that it  matters. There can be no lasting peace and global prosperity without intellectual and moral cooperation among the  nations.
5.8 Mr President, we are utterly devoted to the universality of UNESCO. We deem it capable of acting as one in a  concerted manner at the worldwide level. But it is a political category rather than an arithmetic one. We have a joint  responsibility to ensure that the Organization further enhances its capacities for effective global action. Today it is more  necessary than ever.  (The speaker continues in French)
5.9 En parlant de l´UNESCO, on utilise souvent le mot « valeurs ». Dans ce contexte, j´ai surtout envie d´évoquer  les valeurs qui ne sont pas cotées en Bourse, et de répéter avec René Maheu : « L´essentiel de la mission de  l´UNESCO n´est pas d´ordre technique ; il est éthique ». En affrontant les difficultés, l´UNESCO doit rester fidèle à sa  mission éthique. Dans toute organisation internationale à vocation universelle, il existe toujours des dossiers qui causent  des divisions entre les États. Les désaccords sont naturels et inévitables. Ils sont également très utiles et, à long terme,  ils renforcent notre capacité à délibérer sérieusement mais aussi à respecter nos différences et à trouver ensemble les  meilleures solutions. Nous devons être bien conscients que les organisations intergouvernementales ne sont pas  éternelles. Elles font partie et sont le résultat d'un processus d'évolution. Leur espace vital s´annonce plus darwinien que  jamais. Elles sont parfois gourmandes, égocentriques et déjà trop nombreuses. Seules les plus aptes subsisteront. La  capacité de réinventer et de s´ajuster au nouvel environnement et aux nouveaux défis est essentielle.   (L’orateur poursuit en anglais)
5.10 Mr President, we need UNESCO more than ever. It should play an even more significant role in addressing  present-day threats. It has to continue its efforts to eradicate illiteracy and poverty, to stand up against escalating  conflicts and rising violent extremism, and resolutely reject barbaric attacks and savage destruction of precious cultural  heritage. They serve as the common spiritual identity of us all.
5.11 The current threats to international peace and security have never been more complex. The increasing danger  posed by terrorist and extremist groups requires a global response. We must face up to the twisted philosophies of ISIL,  Al Qaeda, Al Shabaab, Boko Haram and others. There is no alternative to combating them upfront, because it is our  obligation to protect and preserve priceless human heritage for many generations to come. We thus fully support the  #Unite4Heritage campaign. We also encourage all Member States to protect the legacy of the past where it is threatened  by extremists by offering voluntary contributions to the Emergency Fund and the Fund of the Second Protocol of the  Hague Convention. For our part, we are ready to do it.
5.12 The efforts to extend the mandate of the United Nations peacekeeping missions to culture are a step in the right  direction, because culture has been identified by the United Nations Security Council as a major component of global  security and it is now generally regarded as one of the key elements of global peace. The year 2015 is a crucial year to  establish a truly integrated sustainable global agenda. It embraces all nations and tackles all aspects of human existence.  A UNESCO agenda has so much to offer in this respect, because it directly deals with poverty, healthcare and education,  and also with climate, culture, science, communication and information.
5.13 Climate change is a truly defining issue of our time. Bold action is needed today to reduce emissions and build  resilience. Paris will soon host the groundbreaking twenty-first session of the Conference of the Parties to the United  Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (COP 21). Slovakia will take part in it, fully supporting Paris and  France as its hosts. UNESCO is in an extraordinary position to have its say, too. It can precisely address climate change  by taking advantage of its multidisciplinary mandate.
5.14 The newly adopted Education 2030 Framework for Action is a milestone. It aims to improve and promote  inclusive and equitable quality education, taking into account sustainable development, human rights and global  citizenship. Inclusive education that respects gender equality is a key element for building a sustainable, tolerant and  inclusive society. Young people shall be provided with essential competencies and the ability to use them, thus to  contribute to building and shaping the societies they live in.
5.15 We live in an era of unprecedented dissemination of information. People often struggle to attach value to it or  hesitate regarding how to use it properly. We need quality education institutions where people can learn critical thinking,  to understand and appreciate our cultural and historical heritage, the fundamental values of freedom, democracy and  tolerance. Education is crucial to our progress and sustainability, but it also significantly helps to guide us to peace and  stability and, in the end, to our civilized future.
5.16 The suffering of migrants, refugees and asylum seekers calls for concerted efforts, a multidimensional approach  and long-term strategies. Eliminating root causes, rather than only dealing with consequences, is a must. UNESCO’s  Management of Social Transformations Programme (MOST) has a good capacity to focus on all these urgent  implications.
5.17 We will also continue supporting efforts to mainstream human rights across the UNESCO agenda. We remain  committed to the promotion of gender equality, and the empowerment of women and girls. We will strive to eliminate all  forms of discrimination against women and girls, and encourage equal access to education and employment. Our strong  opposition to all forms of racism, racial discrimination, xenophobia and intolerance is unwavering.
5.18 Science is what drives our lives to an ever more advanced level. There is an imperative to invest more in  research. We have to attract young people in particular to devote themselves to science and make use of their talents to  contribute to the wellbeing of future generations. Finally, the relevance of communication and information is truly unique.  UNESCO’s role in promoting universal respect for justice, the rule of law, human rights and fundamental freedoms is  irreplaceable. Specifically, press freedom and freedom of expression need to be reinforced. But the safety of journalists  worldwide is worrying. Slovakia therefore acts along with the international community on this front. We are backing global  efforts to end impunity for crimes against journalists.
5.19 Mr President, before concluding, I would like to come back once more to the vision of UNESCO as we see it. We  need to have a “UNESCO for all”. This expression embodies very well what we want to achieve, because we founded  this Organization with a vision to serve us all for a better world. Thank you for your attention.
6. The President:    Thank you very much, Your Excellency, for your very elaborate statement and indeed for the very rich, wise  words conveyed to us. Excellencies, ladies and gentlemen, I now have the pleasure of welcoming His Excellency,  Mr Ilham Aliyev, President of the Republic of Azerbaijan, who will be our next distinguished speaker. Under his  leadership, Azerbaijan has experienced rapid economic growth and become a reliable partner of UNESCO, supporting  our Organization in all areas of its mandate. I wish in particular to pay tribute to His Excellency’s initiative to launch the  Baku Process which brings together ministers of culture from two different geographical regions, encompassing the  Council of Europe and the Organization of Islamic Cooperation. Over the past few years, Azerbaijan has successfully  hosted three World Forums on Intercultural Dialogue and will soon organize the seventh Global Forum of the United  Nations Alliance of Civilizations (UNAOC). These are all signs of Azerbaijan’s commitment to the promotion of  intercultural dialogue. Mr President, we are pleased to welcome you to UNESCO, and are looking forward to hearing  your message. It is my distinct pleasure and privilege to invite you to take the floor.
7.1  Mr Aliyev (President of Azerbaijan):    Mr President of the General Conference, Mr Chair of the Executive Board, Madam Director-General, dear  friends, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I would like to express the deepest condolences of the people of Azerbaijan to  the people of France regarding the appalling act of terror in Paris on 13 November. The Azerbaijani people share the  pain of the people of France and stand shoulder to shoulder with them in this tragic moment in the history of the French
357  Republic. This awful act of terror once again shows that the international community should unite its efforts to combat  this evil. No country in the world can be 100% protected against these terrible attacks. Therefore, only the unified efforts  of the international community can help us to combat this evil. Azerbaijan, as a country that has suffered from numerous  terror attacks in the past, will play its role in the battle against terrorism, and this role is appreciated by the international  community.
7.2 Azerbaijan is an active member of UNESCO. It was more than 23 years ago, almost immediately after the  restoration of our independence, that Azerbaijan became a member of UNESCO, playing its role in the promotion of the  values of humanity. Azerbaijan has signed and ratified almost all of the conventions and other UNESCO legal  instruments. In 2003, Azerbaijan and UNESCO signed the Framework Agreement for Cooperation in the areas of  education, the sciences, culture and communication, which enabled Azerbaijan to become one of the donor countries of  the Organization. This is our obligation and commitment to the least developed countries. Azerbaijan itself experienced  poverty, economic devastation, occupation and economic decline at the beginning our independence, when we were the  recipients of international aid. Now it is our turn to give back and contribute to the cause of development in the world. I  am absolutely certain that the areas of UNESCO’s activities – education, culture and, of course, science – are the main  areas for the development of humankind, and that their development will make our world more secure and safe.
7.3 We are proud that Azerbaijani historical monuments such as the Walled City of Baku, Shirvansha’s Palace and  Maiden Tower, and the Gobustan Rock Art Cultural Landscape are among the protected historical monuments of  UNESCO on the World Heritage List. Azerbaijan is a land of ancient culture, history and traditions, but is young as an  independent State – only 24 years old. Those years were ones of transformation from one political system to another,  from a planned economy to a market economy, and during those years our country managed to succeed. Today  Azerbaijan is a reliable partner in the international arena and is an active member of many organizations. Our biggest  political and diplomatic success was our election, with the support of 155 countries, to the United Nations Security  Council in 2011. That was a form of recognition by the international community of the role of Azerbaijan, our positive  activity in the global arena, and a sign of respect, trust and appreciation for what we have accomplished. As a reliable  member of the international community, during the two years of our membership in the United Nations Security Council  we addressed two important issues: the fight against international terrorism and intercultural dialogue.
7.4 Unfortunately, from the very beginning of its independence, Azerbaijan has become the object of Armenian  aggression. The Armenian occupation of internationally recognized territories of Azerbaijan continues today. As a result  of the policy of ethnic cleansing against Azerbaijanis, more than one million Azerbaijanis became refugees and internally  displaced persons (IDPs). Some 250,000 Azerbaijanis were deported and ethnically cleansed from Armenia and 750,000  became internally displaced in our own country. We suffered a humanitarian catastrophe at a time when we were not  economically developed, but very poor. Today, watching the television reports about the migration crisis which Europe is  currently facing, of course we understand the pain of the people who have to leave their homes. At the same time, we  understand that it creates difficulties for those who live in Europe. But at the same time, we remember 1992 and 1993,  those years when we in Azerbaijan had to accommodate one million people. At that time, the country’s population was  just over eight million, so we had one of the highest per capita number of refugees and IDPs in the world. We did  everything in order to integrate refugees and IDPs into our society. Today, they play a very important role in the  development of our country.
7.5 Armenia is not only violating international law and norms, but also historic justice. The United Nations Security  Council adopted four resolutions demanding immediate and unconditional withdrawal of Armenian troops from the  territory of Azerbaijan. Unfortunately, more than 20 years have passed since that time and these resolutions have not  been implemented. Here we come to a very important issue of global security and global configuration: decisions and  resolutions of leading international bodies are ignored, and there is no punishment for that. Armenia continues to ignore  Security Council resolutions and there are no consequences for them. This issue must be addressed seriously and we  need to develop implementation mechanisms for Security Council resolutions in order to avoid double standards,  because we all know that in some cases, Security Council resolutions are implemented within days, if not hours. In our  case, however, there has been no progress around the negotiation table for more than 20 years, because Armenia does  not want peace. They want to keep an occupation policy for as long as they can, and unfortunately they have succeeded  so far. Time is on our side, however; time is on the side of justice and international law, and I am sure that Azerbaijan will  restore its territorial integrity, which is respected by the whole world. The territorial integrity of Azerbaijan has the same  value as that of any other country. As a result of the occupation, our historical, architectural, and religious monuments  have been destroyed. You can find the images and videos online. More than 600 historical and architectural monuments  of Azerbaijan have been completely destroyed by Armenian armed forces; 22 museums were destroyed, along with the
40,000 items exhibited in those museums, including very precious items of our historical heritage, stolen from our  museums and then sold at various auctions. Ten mosques were demolished by Armenian occupants, and today, in the  centre of Baku, you can see an Armenian church restored by the Government of Azerbaijan. This is the difference in  approach to multiculturalism and religious tolerance, and this again shows that terrorism has no religion or nationality,  and that it is absolutely unacceptable to link Islam with terrorism. I represent a Muslim country, a country which has  suffered from Armenian terrorism, occupation and destruction of our historic monuments. Of course, we will return to our  lands, we will restore our cities, build new schools and hospitals there, but we will not be able to restore our historical  monuments. Armenia has destroyed our historical heritage, but they cannot destroy our will, the will of refugees and IDPs  who want to go back to their homes, and the will of their children and grandchildren, who were born in Baku and other  Azerbaijani cities, who have never seen their historic land, but live with a strong will in their heart to return – and they will  return. We will do everything in order to restore the territorial integrity of Azerbaijan.
7.6 Again I would like to say that international law norms fully support Azerbaijan’s position. At the same time,  Nagorno-Karabakh is a historic land of Azerbaijan. The word “Karabakh” has Azerbaijan origins – it means “black
358  garden”, it has no meaning in Armenian. Armenians were settled in that area in the middle of the nineteenth century. If  you look at the early twentieth century maps of Tsarist Russia, you will see that the majority of village names and current  toponyms of Armenian territory in that area have Azerbaijani origins. In 1918, after the collapse of the Russian empire,  the first Azerbaijan Democratic Republic was established. One of the first decrees of that Republic was to transfer  Yerevan from Azerbaijan to Armenia. Today, our historic city of Yerevan is the capital of Armenia, which at the beginning  of the twentieth century had a population made up of 80% of citizens of Azerbaijani origin. Today it is completely  ethnically cleansed. History and international law supports our position and, as you can imagine, this issue is number  one for Azerbaijan and for every citizen of Azerbaijan.
7.7 Despite these tragic events and the occupation that continues to this day, Azerbaijan has managed to achieve a  very successful transformation. We have created strong democratic institutions and a modern multiparty political system.  Azerbaijan is a country where all the freedoms are respected: freedom of political activity, media freedom, and freedom  of assembly. According to the World Bank’s assessment in 2008, only 17% of Azerbaijanis were Internet users; in 2015,  this had increased to 75%, and our plan is to cover the whole country with free broadband Internet. Therefore, it is clearly  demonstrated that media freedom and freedom of information are priorities. As the President of the General Conference  mentioned, Azerbaijan has achieved successful economic development, despite this heavy burden of refugees.  Economic growth of more than 300% during the last decade has been one of the fastest in the world. Investing in human  capital, we have managed to reduce dramatically the level of poverty from almost 50% to 5% within 10 years.  Unemployment is even less than 5%. We have very low foreign debt – only 12% of gross domestic product (GDP) and,  according to the World Economic Forum, Azerbaijan is number 40 with respect to the global competitiveness of its  economy. Economic reforms have allowed us to accumulate financial resources and to channel them into social and  infrastructural development. We invest in the future. We invest in education – more than 3,000 schools have been built in  the last 10 years in Azerbaijan, taking into account that the total number of schools is under 5,000. We have achieved  almost 100% literacy rates, which creates a very strong intellectual potential for our future. More than 500 hospitals and  medical institutions built during the last 10 years provide our people with access to modern medical services. Human  capital development always has been, and still is, a major priority to us.
7.8 As mentioned by the President of the General Conference, Azerbaijan plays a very active role in the dialogue of  civilizations and cultures. We are proud that UNESCO is an official partner of the three forums which were held on  intercultural dialogue, and are proud of the unique role that Azerbaijan plays as a country which is situated between East  and West, a country with a predominantly Muslim population, but a secular society and a secular government, a member  of the Council of Europe and a member of the Organization of Islamic Cooperation. We are trying to use this great  opportunity to bring peoples and civilizations closer together. The Baku Process, which we launched in 2008 when we  invited the ministers of culture of Member States of the Organization of Islamic Cooperation to attend the meeting of  ministers of culture of the Council of Europe Member States in Baku, was the first step. Then in 2009, we did the  opposite: there was a meeting of ministers of culture of the Organization of Islamic Cooperation and we invited Member  States of the Council of Europe. Intercultural dialogue today is needed as never before. When we launched the Baku  Process, the situation in the world in 2008 was completely different. Today we see that the level of mutual mistrust is  growing. We can see that if we do not take adequate measures, confrontation based on religious and ethnic grounds will  create even bigger problems for all of us. We can live in peace, however, and I think that the example of countries like  Azerbaijan demonstrates that. In our country, representatives of all religions live in peace and friendship. Our  Government, the State, invests in the construction and reconstruction of not only mosques, but also churches, –  Orthodox and Catholic churches – and synagogues. We are proud that one of the oldest – maybe the oldest church in  the Caucasus – is located in Azerbaijan near the ancient city of Sheki. In the same way, we are proud that one of the  most ancient mosques, which was built in 743, is located in the ancient Azerbaijani city of Shamakhi. All the  representatives of different religions celebrate religious holidays at the same table.
7.9 Therefore, to us, multiculturalism is not just an idea that is being discussed today, as to whether it works or does  not work, whether it has failed or not. To us, multiculturalism is our tradition. Today it is not only tradition – it is a State  policy and our lifestyle. It is possible because we have accumulated a lot of experience in that area. For example, this  year, Azerbaijan hosted the first inaugural European Games. It was very odd that all the continents except Europe had  their own games; although the motherland of the Olympic Games was ancient Greece, and Pierre de Coubertin later  restored them here in France, Europe had never had their own games. That the European Olympic Committee (EOC)  took the very wise decision to host the first European Games in a Muslim country shows that ideals of multiculturalism  and tolerance are very important for all of us. The European Games were a real success, with more than 6,000 athletes  representing 50 European Olympic Committees. In 2017, we will host the Islamic Solidarity Games and Azerbaijan will  probably be the only country in the world for many years to come that will have held these two events in the same city,  Baku. We will continue to contribute to the cause of mutual understanding, because multiculturalism is based on mutual  understanding and mutual respect. We should respect other religions the same way that we respect our own. We should  live side by side with our neighbours, not asking them their nationality or whether they pray in a church, synagogue or  mosque. Only in this way can we reduce potential risks and eliminate growing tensions. The situation in the world is  changing, unfortunately, not in the direction that we would like to see. We need to unite our efforts. We in Azerbaijan are  doing our part in order to bring continents and civilizations together. As the President of the General Conference  mentioned, next year we will host the UNAOC Forum, which will be a global event, particularly aimed at discussion on  the issues of multiculturalism, religious and ethnic tolerance. I would like to underline the unique role of UNESCO  concerning these issues. We fully support the activity of UNESCO and the strong leadership of the Director-General  Ms Bokova, and Azerbaijan will do everything in order to support it in its noble activities. Once again, I would like to  welcome you, express my respect to you, and congratulate UNESCO on its 70th anniversary. Thank you very much.
8. The President:    Thank you very much, Your Excellency. On behalf of all Member States, I would like to thank you most sincerely  for your very elaborate and illuminating speech. Excellencies, ladies and gentlemen, as I informed you earlier, His  Excellency, Mr Barack Obama, President of the United States of America, has sent a message to this august assembly.  His message will be delivered by Her Excellency, Ms Crystal Nix-Hines, Ambassador and Permanent Delegate of the  United States of America to UNESCO. Madam Ambassador, it is my pleasure to invite you to deliver the message.
9.1 Ms Nix-Hines (Ambassador and Permanent Delegate of the United States of America to UNESCO):    Mr President of the General Conference, Madam Director-General, Excellencies, I have been asked to share  with you a statement from President Obama, in light of the tragic events that took place here in Paris on Friday evening. I  also saw Secretary of State, Mr John Forbes Kerry, earlier today at our Embassy and he expressed again his  commitment to advancing the support of the United States for UNESCO’s important work at this critical time.
9.2 Secretary Kerry spoke to us about the recent attacks, saying that our challenge is to stop the immediate threat  and destroy it, while we eliminate the people going into the pool by providing other options, by reaching them before they  are radicalized, by getting people to see that there is better governance and there are better opportunities. And globally,  he noted, we have a lot of work to do.
9.3 As you know, President Obama earlier this year in Washington organized a Summit on Countering Violent  Extremism. He hosted another Leaders’ Forum in New York during the United Nations General Assembly in September,  and Director-General Bokova spoke eloquently about the work being done to enhance this Organization’s mandate to  promote global citizenship, specifically using education as a tool to prevent violent extremism.
9.4 Secretary Kerry and Deputy Secretary Blinken just announced a new public-private partnership with UNESCO  and other partners to develop state-of-the-art training materials to deter impressionable youth from violent extremism - a  need painfully highlighted by the horrific attacks here and elsewhere. Many of you have embraced UNESCO’s leadership  in this area during the latest session of the Executive Board and this session of the General Conference, as one way that  we can collectively advance the mandate of UNESCO to build peace in the minds of men and women.
9.5 I have the privilege of sharing the following message from President Obama: “Once again, we have seen an  outrageous attempt to terrorize innocent civilians. This is an attack not just on Paris, it is an attack not just on the people  of France, but on all of humanity and the universal values that we share. This is a heart-breaking situation, and obviously  those of us here in the United States know what it is like. We have gone through these kinds of episodes ourselves.
9.6 Paris itself represents the timeless values of human progress. Those who think that they can terrorize the people  of France or the values that they stand for are wrong. The American people draw strength from the French people’s  commitment to life, liberty and the pursuit of happiness. We are reminded in this time of tragedy that the bonds of liberté,  égalité and fraternité are not only values that the French people care so deeply about, but they are values that we share.  And those values are going to endure far beyond any act of terrorism or the hateful vision of those who perpetrated the  crimes on Friday evening.
9.7 In closing, I note that like many of you, we suffered casualties during the attack, including the loss of a young  student, Nohemi Gonzalez. Like many other young people, she came to Paris to expand her horizons and enrich her  education. Sadly, as Secretary Kerry said, we do not have the power to bring these young people back. But as he  challenged us, we must do instead what is in our power. And that begins with a fierce sense of solidarity among good  and decent people everywhere, with the vow that we will never be intimidated by terrorists, and we will fight to ensure  that the world that our children inherit is richer in love and shorter on hate.” That is the peacebuilding work of UNESCO  the United States Government affirms today. Thank you. Merci beaucoup.
10. The President:    Thank you very much Madam Ambassador. May I please kindly request you to convey the appreciation of the  General Conference to President Obama for his message, which is very much appreciated. Ladies and gentlemen, we  will now suspend our meeting for a few minutes to allow us to welcome President Hollande. May I kindly request you to  remain seated while we proceed to welcome our distinguished guest.  The meeting is suspended briefly to allow the President of the General Conference   and the Director-General to welcome His Excellency, Mr François Hollande, President of France.  Visit by His Excellency Mr François Hollande, President of France  Visite de Son Excellence M. François Hollande, Président de la France  Visita del Excmo. Sr. François Hollande, Presidente de Francia   Визит Его Превосходительства г-на Франсуа Олланда, Президента Франции   زيارة فخامة السيد فرانسوا هوالند، رئيس فرنسا 法国总统弗朗索瓦·奥朗德先生阁下来访
11.1 The President:    Thank you very much Excellencies. May I please respectfully request everyone to take their seats?  Excellencies, Mr Chair of the Executive Board, Madam Director-General, ladies and gentlemen, it is my immense  privilege and honour to welcome our next speaker, His Excellency Mr François Hollande, President of the French  Republic. Your Excellency, before giving you the floor, and in my capacity as President of the General Conference of  UNESCO, allow me to express our heartfelt condolences to the people and the Government of the French Republic in
360  the wake of the atrocious attacks which befell this beautiful city last Friday.
11.2 Mr President, UNESCO was born in London, but it grew up right here, on the left bank of the Seine. For the past  seven decades, we have called Paris our home. The city and the Organization have grown together, sharing the same  humanistic values, sharing the same principles and ideals. This is why we wish to send a clear message to the French  people today. The attack against Paris is an attack against the values that we all share. Your loss, Mr President, is the  loss of the whole of humanity. Your pain is our pain too.
11.3 Mr President, your presence in this room today sends a very powerful message. We sincerely appreciate your  resolve not to give in to fear. We all need to show that humanism is stronger than hate, that hearts and minds are  mightier than bullets, that peace will prevail, and joy will reign again in the streets of Paris, and indeed around the whole  world. Mr President, it is my distinct honour and pleasure to invite you, Your Excellency, to take the floor.
12.1 M. Hollande (Président de la République française) :    Monsieur le Président de la Conférence générale, Monsieur le Président du Conseil exécutif, Madame  la Directrice générale, Mesdames, Messieurs, représentants de vos différents pays, je m’adresse à vous dans des  circonstances particulièrement douloureuses, vous les avez rappelées. Mais je tenais à être parmi vous après le lâche et  abject attentat qui a eu lieu dans mon pays, vendredi soir. Je veux dire tout le symbole que j’attache à ma présence. Je  suis ici à l’UNESCO, l’organisation qui rassemble les pays pour la paix et pour la culture. C’est la raison pour laquelle il  était si important à mes yeux de venir participer à cette conférence, pour en rappeler les valeurs, les principes, et cette  volonté qui a été celle, au lendemain de la barbarie de la seconde guerre mondiale, de faire prévaloir l’éducation, la  culture et la science contre le fanatisme et le totalitarisme.
12.2 Je veux ici saluer tous les gestes d’amitié et de solidarité qui nous sont venus du monde entier : de l’Opéra de  Sydney, de la porte de Brandebourg, des pyramides d’Égypte, de la Perle de l’Orient en Chine et du Metropolitan Opera  de New York, avec la Marseillaise qui a été entonnée par Placido Domingo. Tous ces lieux dans tous vos pays pavoisés  aux couleurs du drapeau français, c’était le même message de solidarité qui nous était adressé. C’était aussi la même  confiance, et vous vouliez une fois encore porter témoignage de la force que vous accordez à la France pour porter ces  valeurs. Car ce que les tueurs voulaient atteindre, c’était l’idée même de la France : ses valeurs, sa jeunesse, sa vitalité,  sa culture, son art de vivre. En visant des cafés, un lieu de spectacle, un stade, les terroristes djihadistes voulaient  frapper une société – la nôtre, la vôtre – où l’on peut se rencontrer, échanger, partager, rire, faire la fête. Ils croyaient –  ces assassins si lâches ! – atteindre cette cohésion précieuse qui rassemble dans nos villes tous les âges, toutes les  nationalités, toutes les classes sociales, toutes les religions.
12.3 Ils pensaient aussi, en s’attaquant à un restaurant cambodgien, au concert d’un groupe américain, à un match  de football international, à des lieux fréquentés par des ressortissants de multiples nationalités – hélas, 19 parmi les  victimes du drame de vendredi soir –, ils pensaient affaiblir la passion française d’accueillir le monde entier, amoindrir  cette fierté que nous avons d'être un pays qui échange avec toutes les cultures. Ils ont, d’ores et déjà, perdu ce combat- là. Car aujourd’hui, en nous tenant debout, déterminés face à la terreur, nous voulons marquer notre attachement  indestructible à la liberté et au dialogue des cultures. Tout le contraire de l’obscurantisme, du fanatisme, du  fondamentalisme, de l’islamisme radical. L’histoire nous l’apprend : ce sont toujours les totalitarismes et les intégrismes  qui interdisent la musique, brûlent les livres, détruisent le patrimoine, tentent d’effacer la mémoire de ce qui les précède.
12.4 Et si nous sommes en guerre – oui, en guerre – contre le terrorisme djihadiste, nous ne sommes pas dans une  guerre de civilisations car les assassins ne portaient aucune trace de civilisation. Notre réponse doit être impitoyable au  plan extérieur comme sur le terrain intérieur. Elle est dirigée contre les commanditaires – nous savons où ils sont – en  Syrie, comme contre leurs bras armés et leurs complices, y compris en France. Mais on ne lutte pas contre le terrorisme  en se cachant, en se mettant entre parenthèses, en suspendant la vie économique, sociale, culturelle, en interdisant les  concerts, le théâtre, les compétitions sportives. Non, nous ne cèderons pas aux terroristes en suspendant notre mode de  vie. Nous ne renoncerons à rien.
12.5 Voilà pourquoi, après l’émotion et le deuil, la France, dans la même dignité, saura faire face en restant elle- même, et Paris demeurera la ville des théâtres, des cinémas, des musées, du spectacle vivant. Parce que la culture sera  toujours chez elle en France. Parce que le spectacle vivant est bien vivant en France. Parce que les salles de cinéma  continueront d’accueillir un large public. Parce que tous les musées seront ouverts pour, là encore, faire découvrir aux  visiteurs les merveilles qui existent dans notre patrimoine. La France est un pays ouvert et le demeurera. Ouvert à tous  les arts, à toutes les musiques, à toutes les créations, à tous les publics. La jeunesse de France, celle qui a été meurtrie,  blessée dans cette nuit de vendredi à samedi, sera la plus ardente à défendre cette liberté et cette conception de la vie  en commun. Et pouvais-je trouver un meilleur endroit pour le dire, pour affirmer cette exigence de tenir bon, que cette  enceinte de l’UNESCO ? Une institution qui est née de la volonté de réunir l’humanité par l’éducation et la culture, et qui  a choisi Paris comme siège.
12.6 Oui, l’UNESCO, c’est « la conscience morale de l’humanité », et ce qui l’a fondé, c’est la promotion de la  « diversité des cultures ». Une diversité fondée sur l’idée que la culture relie les hommes à leur histoire, à leur territoire.  Une diversité ancrée dans la reconnaissance de l’égale dignité des cultures, chaque peuple ayant un message singulier  à porter au monde. Une diversité qui refuse l’uniformisation et promeut la pluralité des opinions et des croyances. Une  diversité qui fait de l’éducation le levier de l’émancipation universelle. Voilà pourquoi la Convention de 2005 sur la  diversité des expressions culturelles, dont nous célébrons le 10e anniversaire, est si importante à nos yeux. En  soulignant que les biens culturels sont porteurs d’identité, de valeur et de sens, cette Convention a consacré le droit  souverain des États à soutenir la création artistique et à ne pas faire de la culture une marchandise. C’est la raison pour  laquelle la France a toujours refusé que les services audiovisuels soient inclus dans la négociation du partenariat  transatlantique entre l’Union européenne et les États-Unis. Et je vous assure que cette vigilance demeurera tout au long
361  du processus.
12.7 Cette bataille de la diversité et de l’exception culturelle, nous devons aussi la mener alors que la révolution  numérique bouleverse la création, la diffusion et le partage de la valeur économique liée aux œuvres. Et là encore, la  France défendra l’application du principe de neutralité technologique et demande que la Convention de 2005 puisse  s’appliquer aussi aux œuvres numériques. C’est la condition indispensable pour protéger les droits des auteurs et des  créateurs.
12.8 Mais, si je suis venu devant vous, c’est aussi pour défendre le patrimoine, les œuvres que nous avons en  commun, que nous avons héritées de l’histoire. Ces œuvres qui peuvent également être victimes du terrorisme.  L’UNESCO a créé – c’était en 1972 – la Liste du patrimoine mondial. Plus de 1 000 sites sont aujourd’hui classés, dont
41 – et j’en suis fier – en France. Je sais que ce sont des cibles de choix pour ceux qui veulent annihiler la mémoire des  peuples. Je pense aux Bouddhas de Bâmiyân, aux temples d’Angkor et de Palmyre. C’est toujours la même tentative  des totalitaires de vouloir faire que leurs crimes touchent à la mémoire. Les fanatiques s’en prennent aux vivants mais ils  s’en prennent aussi aux morts, ils s’en prennent à tout ce qui constitue l’humanité, à celle d’aujourd’hui, de demain et  également à celle d’hier, celle dont on procède. Les terroristes voudraient tout effacer : la jeunesse, la culture, la vie et,  en même temps, l’histoire et la mémoire.
12.9 L’UNESCO joue un rôle majeur dans la préservation de ces biens, ces biens communs. C’est elle qui alerte  avant qu’il ne soit trop tard, qui prévient avant que des destructions et des pillages puissent avoir lieu. C’est l’UNESCO  également qui lutte contre le trafic des œuvres et des antiquités. Mais l’UNESCO fait également davantage et je veux, ici,  en remercier la Directrice générale. Elle participe aussi à la réhabilitation des sites détruits ou qui ont pu être  endommagés, en Afghanistan, en Iraq, au Mali. Je me souviens encore de notre visite avec la Directrice générale,  Mme Bokova. Nous étions à Tombouctou lorsque la ville a été libérée et nous avons constaté devant nous le saccage  des mausolées, la destruction des manuscrits. Et c’est votre honneur et c’était aussi notre responsabilité de faire en  sorte qu’en même temps que nous redonnions au Mali le retour à son intégrité territoriale, nous puissions aussi  réhabiliter ce qui avait été détruit ou abimé.   (Applaudissements)
12.10 La France a toujours été aux côtés de l’UNESCO. Elle a mis ses ressources et ses compétences au service de  la restauration des sites. Ensemble, en 20 ans, 70 projets ont pu être menés à bien. Nous pouvons agir, même au  Proche et au Moyen-Orient. Les destructions de monuments et de sites archéologiques en Syrie et en Iraq ont soulevé  une émotion considérable. Je pense notamment à Palmyre où l’ancien conservateur a préféré rester alors qu’il savait le  sort qui l’attendait. Il a été décapité par les bourreaux de Daech, qui ont eux-mêmes commis l’irréparable sur le site.  Alors, face à cette émotion, j’avais demandé au Président du musée du Louvre, Jean-Luc Martinez, de travailler pour  nous proposer un plan d’action. Il vient de m’être transmis.  Il comporte trois priorités que je soumets à l’UNESCO et sur  lesquelles la France va s’engager.
12.11 La première de ces priorités, c’est la lutte contre les trafics des biens culturels. Il faut savoir qu’en ce moment- même, l’organisation terroriste Daech délivre des permis de fouille, prélève des taxes sur des biens qui vont ensuite  alimenter le marché noir mondial, transitant par des ports francs qui sont des havres pour le recel et le blanchiment, y  compris en Europe. La France a donc décidé d’introduire un contrôle douanier à l’importation de biens culturels et  intègrera dans son droit les résolutions du Conseil de sécurité interdisant le transport, le transit, le commerce du  patrimoine culturel mobilier ayant quitté illégalement certains pays.
12.12 La seconde priorité, c’est d’empêcher que les œuvres transportées puissent tomber entre les mains des  terroristes. Alors la France créera des refuges pour que les biens culturels menacés puissent trouver, si je puis dire, un  asile. Un asile pour les musées qui souhaiteraient, face au danger, mettre leurs collections à l’abri. Le droit d’asile vaut  pour les personnes, et nous devons d’ailleurs le garantir même dans les circonstances douloureuses, éprouvantes que  nous connaissons. Mais l’asile vaut également pour les œuvres, pour le patrimoine mondial. Et c’est la raison pour  laquelle cette disposition figurera dans la loi « liberté de la création » que la Ministre de la culture, Fleur Pellerin, est en  charge de faire voter au Parlement. La France offrira son assistance pour élaborer, avec les gouvernements légitimes et  les musées volontaires, des plans de sauvegarde d’urgence, assortis d’un mécanisme permettant la sortie et  l’hébergement temporaire de ces œuvres pendant le temps des conflits.
12.13 Enfin, la troisième priorité, c’est de conserver la mémoire des sites. Ces 20 dernières années, la France a  consacré près de 170 millions d’euros à la protection du patrimoine et à l’archéologie du Proche et du Moyen-Orient.  Aujourd’hui, mon pays accueille 460 boursiers syriens et plus de 300 boursiers iraquiens, dont une vingtaine travaille  dans le domaine du patrimoine. Et je souhaite que mon pays, y compris dans ce contexte, y compris avec ce qui vient de  se passer, puisse accueillir encore davantage d’archéologues et de chercheurs syriens pour qu’ils puissent continuer  leur travail.
12.14 De la même manière, la France contribuera à la numérisation des archives archéologiques, de cartographie des  sites et d’inventaires de collections, de manière à pouvoir reconstituer en 3D, comme l’on dit, le patrimoine qui aura pu  hélas être détruit mais qui, finalement, pourra laisser une trace. J’ai demandé au Ministre des affaires étrangères,  Laurent Fabius, et à la Ministre de la culture, Fleur Pellerin, de mobiliser également la Commission européenne pour que  l’Europe puisse prendre des mesures d’harmonisation comme le contrôle à l’importation, les certificats d’exportation, sur  la recommandation de l’UNESCO. Nous parlons beaucoup des paradis fiscaux et nous avons raison de vouloir, là  encore, faire en sorte qu’ils puissent disparaître. Mais nous devons également éliminer les « paradis du recel » dans le  monde.
12.15 Mesdames et Messieurs, la préservation du patrimoine de l’humanité est une grande cause et nous devons
362  coordonner tous nos efforts, mutualiser tous nos moyens pour assurer cette préservation de la mémoire. Mais il nous  faut aussi associer le partenariat privé pour que les ressources publiques ne soient pas les seules qui puissent être  sollicitées. Je propose donc qu’il puisse y avoir une structure internationale unique, bien identifiée, qui puisse rassembler  les dons et les contributions et constituer un fonds de dotation international dédié aux biens culturels en danger. Tout ce  que je viens de proposer autour de ce plan d’action, je suggère que l’UNESCO s’en empare. Je souhaite qu’elle puisse  prendre l’initiative d’un instrument international permettant de garantir la pleine application de ses engagements.
12.16 L’UNESCO a été créée il y a 70 ans, après la tragédie, la barbarie déjà, et avec un principe qui, pour certains,  était une utopie :  les guerres naissant dans l’esprit des hommes, c’est dans l’esprit des hommes que doivent être  élevées les défenses de la paix. Tel était l’esprit de ceux qui ont fondé l’UNESCO. Aujourd’hui, 70 ans après, à Paris,  c’est au nom d’un pays attaqué, d’un pays éprouvé, d’un pays debout, que je m’exprime devant vous pour vous dire qu’il  faut plus que jamais refuser la peur, la division et la haine, et choisir la vie, la culture, le partage, le respect, la dignité. À  la barbarie des terroristes, nous opposerons l’invincible humanité de la culture qui, comme le disait André Malraux, « a  fait de l’homme autre chose qu’un accident de la nature ». La culture, voilà pourquoi la France se bat aujourd’hui. Merci.   (Applaudissements)  The meeting is suspended briefly while His Excellency,   Mr François Hollande, President of France, is escorted from the room.  Leaders’ Forum (continued)  Forum des dirigeants (suite)  Foro de dirigentes (continuación)  Форум руководителей (продолжение)   جتابع) منتدى القارة 领导人论坛 （续）
13.1  The President:    Thank you very much. Would you please take your sets so that we can continue with the remainder of our  programme? Thank you very much. Notwithstanding that His Excellency, President Hollande, has left I wanted on your  behalf to thank him most sincerely for having graced our Organization with his presence. The President had in his  delegation three ministers who accompanied him, a clear indication of the importance that he attaches to UNESCO and  we are truly humbled as Member States for that particular gesture.
13.2 Excellencies, ladies and gentlemen, we will now proceed, and I have the pleasure of welcoming His Excellency,  Mr Nurul Islam Nahid, Minister of Education of Bangladesh, who will deliver a message on behalf of the Head of State of  his country. Your Excellency, you now have the floor, Sir.
14.1 Mr Nahid (Minister of Education of Bangladesh):    Mr President of the General Conference, Mr Chair of the Executive Board, Madam Director-General,  Excellencies, ladies and gentlemen. On 4 November, I addressed this august body as the head of the Bangladesh  Delegation to the 38th session of the General Conference of UNESCO. Today, it was our Honourable Prime Minister,  Her Excellency Sheikh Hasina, who was scheduled to address this Leaders’ Forum. She could not be here today owing  to extraordinary circumstances. However, on her behalf, I would like to read out the statement that she would have  delivered to this gathering.
14.2 Before beginning with the speech of the Bangladesh Prime Minister, allow me express our deepest condolences  to the Government and the people of France for the loss of so many innocent lives owing to despicable acts of terror last  week. Terrorists are terrorists, irrespective of their colour, creed or religion, and must have no place in any civilized  society. Our Government stands ready to work with all governments to fight this global scourge in all its forms and  manifestations.
14.3 Now, Mr President, let me read out my Prime Minister’s address: “It gives me great pleasure to address this  Leaders’ Forum. I thank Ms Irina Bokova for inviting me here. As always, I am deeply touched by her warmth and  friendship. For me, personally, UNESCO has a connotation of peace. I came here first in 1999 to receive the Félix  Houphouët-Boigny Peace Prize during my first term as Prime Minister. Last year, I was awarded a sculpture of  UNESCO’s “Tree of Peace” for our work in girls’ education.
14.4 Over four decades ago, the father of our nation, Bangabandhu Sheikh Mujibur Rahman, in his address to the  United Nations General Assembly, said, “Peace represents the deepest aspirations of men and women throughout the  world. Peace to endure must be peace based on justice”. Inspired by his vision, Bangladesh steers United Nations  General Assembly resolutions towards a “Culture of Peace and Non-violence” every year. We commend UNESCO for  making the concept its own, and giving it global relevance.
14.5 Today, in a world torn apart by wars and conflicts, we are searching for lasting peace. We must mobilize the  resources we have to defeat the forces that want to destroy our civilization. We need to build enough resilience within  individual minds, families and communities. We must invoke the power of education, culture, science and communication  to bring about a fundamental change in our understanding of peace and progress. Here, we find the enduring value of  UNESCO and its call for “new humanism”. We need a new impetus to promote quality and inclusive education, cultural  diversity, and a rational, scientific outlook as critical enablers of sustainable development and human dignity.
14.6 Mr President, my vision for Bangladesh is for it to become a middle-income country by 2021 and a developed
363  nation by 2041. To implement these visions, we have made education a central pillar of our national development  agenda. Our landmark national education policy is an outcome of the lessons learnt in working together with UNESCO  for achieving education for all. Through our sustained investment in education, we have attained the Millennium  Development Goal (MDG) targets of nearly 100% enrolment in primary schools, and gender parity in primary and  secondary education. This year alone, we distributed 326.35 million text books free of charge on the first day of the year.  This is perhaps the biggest such undertaking anywhere in the world. Our Government has given stipends to 13.4 million  students, 75% of them girls. We are currently working on reducing drop-out rates, increasing pass rates, and having  more girls in higher education.
14.7 Our focus now is more on quality education. I remain personally committed to this as a champion of the United  Nations Secretary General’s Global Education First Initiative (GEFI). We are investing in teachers’ training, setting up  model schools, expanding technical, vocational and information and communication technology (ICT) based education,  modernizing madrasa curricula, and reforming assessment systems. Our domestic efforts at achieving total literacy,  promoting second chance learning, and creating life-long learning opportunities are being scaled up further.
14.8 In Bangladesh, we attach particular importance to girls’ education. We consider this to be a must to keep  improving our human development scorecards. I see girls’ education as the prime investment to make in order to end  child marriage, prevent violence against women and change mindsets about women’s role in society. We have the  empowering tools of ICT to make a sea change in our efforts. Our young boys and girls are growing up to be the main  agents of our digital Bangladesh. We are using ICT to enable quality teaching to reach remote areas. It is important for  our students to get access to new innovations and ideas. I want our children to grow up as truly global citizens.
14.9 Along with science, liberal arts, culture and sports are the other fundamental pillars of human civilization. The
2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development duly appreciates culture as a driver of sustainable development. The people  of Bangladesh turn to their rich cultural heritage in search of their identity and resilient spirit. Our Baul Songs and  Jamdani now belong to the cultural heritage of humankind. We shall continue to work with UNESCO to promote cultural  diversity to build bridges across communities and nations. As a cornerstone to that, our Government remains committed  to upholding freedom of expression and speech. In the knowledge and information society we wish to build, we shall  continue to foster dialogue, tolerance, fair play, and mutual understanding.
14.10 Mr President, language is the main vehicle for all human endeavours. I wish to recall UNESCO’s seminal  contribution to preserving mother tongues and promoting multilingual education. The Organization took a big step  forward by declaring our “Language Martyrs’ Day” on 21 February as the International Mother Language Day. We are  again grateful to this Conference for recognizing the International Mother Language Institute (IMLI) in Bangladesh as an  institute under the auspices of UNESCO (category 2). We wish to build an archive of all living languages in the Institute,  and I invite you all to make the best use of it. For our part, we are introducing education through mother tongues for our  different ethnic groups. We have established institutions to preserve their languages and showcase their cultures.
14.11 Mr President, we see UNESCO’s added value in addressing two main challenges facing the international  community. First, the threats of terrorism and violent extremism respect no borders. My Government and I have taken a  zero tolerance approach to all forms of terrorism and violent extremism. We have made no compromise with our  domestic terrorist outfits. We keep constant vigil on their possible links with any regional or international terrorist  networks.
14.12 There is much that needs to be done to root out the mindset that turns to violent extremism. Education of the  right kind is perhaps our only response to the wrong narratives being fed to our youth by the violent extremists. Second,  climate change impact can reverse much of our development gains. Bangladesh remains on the frontline of that threat,  but has not surrendered to it. We have taken a number of adaptation measures with our own resources.
14.13 UNESCO’s work on conserving biospheres has been a wake-up call to the damage being done to our natural  resources. The preservation of the world’s natural heritage sites and underwater resources remains our shared  responsibility. Less than two weeks from now, in this historic city, the international community will have the opportunity to  deliver some hope to those affected by climate change. I add my voice to the call for a game-changing new deal to save  our planet and its people.
14.14 Mr President, the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development is universal and ambitious. To deliver on those  goals, we must set our ambitions higher for all major partners including UNESCO. There is room for creativity and  innovation. There is also scope for reform and renewal. If we expect UNESCO to do what it does best, we must further  invest in building its resources and capacity to do so. At 70, UNESCO is still a young organization. It is perhaps one of  the best legacies we have from the ashes of the Second World War. With UNESCO on our side, let us join our hands to  create a world where, in the Bengali poet Rabindranath Tagore’s words, “the mind is without fear and the head is held  high”, where “knowledge is free” and “words come out from the depth of truth”.” I thank you for your kind attention.
15.  The President    Thank you very much, Your Excellency. Your Excellency, may I kindly request you to convey on our behalf our  sincere thanks and appreciation to Her Excellency, the Prime Minister of Bangladesh. Dear colleagues, ladies and  gentlemen, that brings to a close the segment in terms of the Leaders’ Forum. I would like to once again request you to  join me in expressing our thanks and gratitude to all the heads of State and government that graced our beloved  Organization. We also thank the Director-General and the Executive Board for having prepared for this Leaders’ Forum. I  am sure that you will agree with me that notwithstanding the circumstances, the Leaders’ Forum was a resounding  success.   (Applause)
16.  The President:    I now invite this session to examine the report of the Culture Commission which is contained in document
38 C/94. I invite His Excellency, Mr Arūnas Gelūnas, Chairperson of the Culture Commission, to present the report. Your  Excellency, you have the floor, Sir.
17.1 M. Gelūnas (Lituanie) (Président de la Commission CLT) :    Thank you Mr President. Monsieur le Président de la Conférence générale, Monsieur le Président du Conseil  exécutif, Madame la Directrice générale, Mesdames et Messieurs les délégués, Mesdames et Messieurs, je tiens à  remercier les États membres de l'UNESCO de m’avoir confié la tâche importante et enrichissante de présider la  Commission Culture. De même, je voudrais exprimer ma gratitude aux membres de cette Commission qui ont participé  activement aux débats et qui ont fait preuve d’engagement et d’efficacité, ce qui nous a permis de mener nos travaux de  manière productive et ponctuelle.
17.2 La Commission a débuté ses travaux le jeudi 12 novembre et les a conclus plus tôt que prévu, le vendredi
13 novembre 2015. Les recommandations formulées par la Commission Culture apparaissent dans le document 38 C/94.  La Commission a commencé ses travaux en élisant M. Roberto Ramírez Aldana (Honduras), Mme Christina Cameron  (Canada), S. E. Mme Ruchira Kamboj (Inde) et S. E. M. Khalil Karam (Liban) comme vice-présidents de la Commission ;  et M. Ali Ould Sidi (Mali) comme rapporteur.
17.3 La Commission a adopté son calendrier provisoire, qui a réparti son travail en six débats ; 242 interventions ont  eu lieu au cours des deux jours, lors des débats et l’examen des projets de résolution. Quatre événements parallèles ont  été organisés en marge de la Commission, les 12 et 13 novembre 2015, à savoir un événement sur la campagne  #Unite4Heritage (#UnisPourLePatrimoine), le lancement des activités autour du 10e anniversaire de la création du Fonds  pour le patrimoine mondial africain, un événement concernant le 10e anniversaire de la Base de données de l’UNESCO  sur les législations nationales du patrimoine culturel, et un panel de discussion sur la condition de l’artiste et la liberté  artistique.   (L’orateur poursuit en anglais)
17.4 In its first debate, the Commission considered item 3.4 on the preparation of the Draft Programme and Budget  for 2018-2021 (39 C/5) and item 4.5 on the conclusions of the Youth Forum. Under item 4.5 on the conclusions of the  Youth Forum, two youth delegates presented the Forum’s recommendations relating to culture, notably with regard to  safeguarding tangible and intangible heritage, particularly threatened by conflicts and climate change, and to  encouraging artistic and cultural creativity in all its expressions. The Member States fully endorsed the conclusions of the  Forum.
17.5 Item 3.4 on the preparation of the Draft Programme and Budget for 2018-2021 (39 C/5) was introduced by the  representative of the Director-General, Mr Francesco Bandarin, Assistant Director-General for Culture, and Mr Jean- Yves Le Saux, Deputy Director of the Bureau of Strategic Planning. During the debate, a total of 28 Member States and  two observers took the floor. The three main points highlighted by the delegations that participated in the debate were  the 2030 Agenda, the need to respond to emergency situations when heritage and the diversity of cultural expressions  were put at risk and the standard-setting instruments of UNESCO in the field of culture. Cultural diversity, youth, gender,  and the need for greater intersectoral cooperation, especially in the area of heritage education, were among the other  issues highlighted by a large number of delegations.
17.6 Almost all delegations highlighted the importance of aligning the priorities of Major Programme IV – Culture with  the 2030 Agenda, which should be considered as an overarching framework of all UNESCO activities, including those  relating to culture. Most delegations emphasized more specifically the importance of culture having been included for the  first time in the international development agenda, with specific entry points in nine of the Sustainable Development  Goals (SDGs) as well as culture’s role as an enabler and driver for sustainable development. Furthermore, the  overwhelming majority of delegations also highlighted the significance of UNESCO’s culture conventions not only as  crucially important standard-setting instruments but also as key tools for achieving the SDGs and for preventing the  destruction of cultural and natural heritage in conflict and emergency situations. The role of UNESCO in emergency  situations was frequently underscored, as well as the need to protect and promote cultural diversity. The Commission  also emphasized the importance of youth at the core of UNESCO’s actions towards achievement of the SDGs, as well as  the importance of continuing to mainstream gender equality in all culture programmes. The need for enhancing synergies  between UNESCO conventions as well as between major programmes was another recurrent theme.
17.7 Dear colleagues, I have only introduced the main lines of this rich and inspiring debate which touched upon a  number of crucial aspects of the Culture Sector’s programme priorities for the future. I will stop here and invite you to  read the more detailed outline, included as an annex to the report of the Commission, contained in document 38 C/94.
17.8 Dear colleagues, I will now move to the second debate of our agenda. The consideration and adoption of the  Draft Programme and Budget, 2016-2017 (38 C/5) – Part II A: Major Programme IV – Culture, under item 3.2, was
365  introduced by the representative of the Director-General. Mr Bandarin informed the Commission that the programme and  budget contained in document 38 C/5 were a direct continuation of the four-year programme defined for the 2014-2017  period and that some minor adjustments had been introduced to the culture programme, among which were the  denomination of the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development and the title of expected result 7, with a view to including  the Creative Cities Network and the International Fund for the Promotion of Culture (IFPC), enhanced references to cities  and the protection and safeguarding of culture in emergency situations, as well as streamlined performance indicators.  He also recalled the Director-General’s proposal mentioned in document 38 C/INF.17 to transfer expected result 5 from  Major Programme IV to Major Programme III with effect from 1 January 2016.
17.9 During the debate, a total of 27 Member States took the floor. The three main points highlighted by the  delegations that participated in the debate were: the alignment of the 2030 Agenda with the culture programme and  budget; the effective implementation of the statutory obligations of the standard-setting instruments of UNESCO in the  field of culture, especially capacity building and monitoring, and the need for their governing bodies to prioritize, taking  into consideration the challenging financial situation; and the need to respond to emergency situations when heritage and  the diversity of cultural expressions were put at risk.
17.10 The Culture Commission then recommended that the General Conference adopt the recommendation of the  Executive Board on Major Programme IV contained in document 38 C/6 and its Addenda. Under item 3.2, the  Commission then considered draft resolution 38 C/DR.3 submitted by the Islamic Republic of Iran, in conjunction with  document 38 C/8. The Commission decided to recommend that the General Conference adopt the core text of the  resolution, excluding the explanatory note attached to it. The status of the explanatory note was questioned by the  delegation of Norway and several other delegations and was clarified by the representative of the Director-General and  the Legal Adviser. The delegation of the Islamic Republic of Iran also took the floor and agreed to the proposal to adopt  the draft resolution without the explanatory note.
17.11 Under item 3.2, the Commission then considered draft resolution 38 C/DR.12 submitted by China. Taking into  account the considerations of the Director-General in document 38 C/8, the structural changes proposed for Major  Programmes III and IV and the intervention of the sponsor, who agreed with the proposed approach, the draft resolution  was not retained. The Commission concluded its second debate by recommending that the General Conference adopt  on a temporary basis the draft resolution in paragraph 04000 of document 38 C/5 Volume I, as amended.
17.12 During the third debate, a total of 29 Member States took the floor. Under item 4.4 the Commission considered a  proposal for the establishment in Beijing, China, of an international centre for creativity and sustainable development as  a centre under the auspices of UNESCO (category 2). Further to the decision taken by the General Conference at its first  plenary session, no debate took place on the item and the Commission decided to recommend that the General  Conference adopt the draft resolution contained in paragraph 3 of document 38 C/18, Part XXI. China took the floor after  the resolution was adopted.
17.13 Regarding item 4.21 on the proclamation of 5 May as African World Heritage Day, many delegations of African  Member States and from other regions of the world took the floor and emphasized that the proclamation of that Day  would contribute to mobilizing support for the safeguarding of African world heritage properties and to promoting South- South cooperation. The annual event would also be rotating in order to strengthen regional collaboration in the field of  heritage conservation. The Commission recommended that the General Conference adopt the draft resolution contained  in paragraph 2 of document 38 C/68.
17.14 In the framework of the same debate, the Commission also considered items 7.7 and 7.4, both of which had  been examined previously by the Legal Committee. On item 7.7, concerning the report on the implementation by  Member States of the 2011 Recommendation on the Historic Urban Landscape (HUL), including a glossary of definitions,  a number of Member States considered it important to enhance the implementation of the Recommendation, while some  noted that no reports had been submitted and that no specific budget for the monitoring of the implementation of the  Recommendation had been allocated. Some Member States stressed the need to ensure synergies with other cultural  conventions, in particular the 1972 and 2005 Conventions, as well as the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development and  the new urban agenda. UNESCO’s contribution to the forthcoming Habitat III conference foreseen in 2016 was welcome.  On the specific topic of reporting by Member States, it was suggested that synergies with other instruments, more  specifically the 1972 World Heritage Convention reporting process, should be explored.
17.15 In his reply, the Assistant Director-General for Culture highlighted that the 2011 HUL Recommendation had  become a reference in the past four years and stressed the importance of linking the Recommendation to the 2030  Agenda. He also stressed the role of urban heritage in the new urban agenda and the fact that contributing to the Habitat  III conference was a rare opportunity to advocate the link between culture and development. He referred to the process  of developing the report which would be discussed at the International Conference in Hangzhou, China, in December
2015. The Commission recommended that the General Conference adopt the draft resolution contained in paragraph 3  of document 38 C/83, as amended by the Legal Committee.
17.16 Under item 7.4 on the consolidated report on the implementation of the 1980 Recommendation concerning the  Status of the Artist, a number of Member States stressed the need for synergies with the 2005 Convention on the  Protection and Promotion of the Diversity of Cultural Expressions and highlighted the impact of digital technologies on  the creation and distribution of artistic expressions. In their interventions, several delegations called for enhancing the  implementation of the Recommendation and agreed with the four crosscutting themes identified by the Secretariat  relating to digital technologies, transnational mobility, social protection and artistic freedom. Some delegates emphasized  the importance of providing facilities to ensure the increased mobility of artists. They encouraged the Secretariat to  continue its monitoring functions, despite the fact that there were no resources available, and suggested that the
366  synergies created with the 2005 Convention were an efficient way forward to maintain an “observatory function”. The  Commission recommended that the General Conference adopt the draft resolution contained in paragraph 5 of document
38 C/83, as amended by the Legal Committee and by the Commission.
17.17 In the fourth debate, the Commission recommended, by consensus and without debate, that the General  Conference adopt the two draft resolutions submitted by Palestine and Qatar under item 4.2 on Jerusalem and the  implementation of 37 C/Resolution 44, and item 4.3 on the implementation of 37 C/Resolution 67 concerning educational  and cultural institutions in the occupied Arab territories.
17.18 During the fifth debate on items 4.11 and 7.3, a total of 47 Member States took the floor. Under item 4.11, the  Commission considered the reinforcement of UNESCO’s action for the protection of cultural heritage and the promotion  of cultural pluralism in the event of armed conflict, which was introduced by the representative of the Director-General.  Mr Bandarin explained the main objectives of the strategy presented in document 38 C/49 as well as the financial and  organizational requirements for its successful implementation. He further recalled the revisions made to the original  document following its discussion at the 197th session of the Executive Board, notably the clarification of the terminology  used, as well as the integration of a rapid response mechanism at the request of Italy and other Member States.
17.19 All speakers stressed the importance of the protection of cultural heritage during armed conflict. The delegates  also underlined the need for UNESCO to cooperate and coordinate with other United Nations bodies, as well as with  Member States, to implement the strategy. A number of delegates underlined the need to further discuss its  implementation modalities, including those of the rapid response mechanism. Several delegates provided an overview of  national initiatives undertaken for the protection of cultural heritage, including on the subject of safe havens, and  expressed their wish for those to be seen as part of the comprehensive efforts of the international community.
17.20 In his reply, Mr Bandarin provided clarifications on the nature of the intended cooperation with the United  Nations system and other international organizations in the field of humanitarian action and peacekeeping operations.  The draft resolution was extensively discussed and some amendments were introduced, including a reference to the  United Nations Security Council resolution 2199 (2015) as an important benchmark in the reinforcement of UNESCO’s  activities to protect cultural heritage. The Culture Commission recommended that the General Conference adopt the draft  resolution contained in paragraph 55 of document 38 C/49, as amended by the Culture Commission.
17.21 Under item 7.3, the Commission examined the reports on the measures taken for the implementation of the
1970 Convention on the Means of Prohibiting and Preventing the Illicit Import, Export and Transfer of Ownership of  Cultural Property. The item had previously been examined by the Legal Committee. Mr Bandarin introduced the item and  recalled the creation of a new organ for the Convention in 2012, namely the Subsidiary Committee to the Meeting of  State Parties to the 1970 Convention. He also proposed an amendment to the draft resolution, the purpose of which was  to streamline the reporting process of the 1970 Convention and to harmonize it with other conventions.
17.22 During the debate, several Member States mentioned the progress achieved at the national level in the fight  against trafficking and provided examples of restitution cases in recent months. Some delegates stressed the importance  of prevention measures and the role of customs, bilateral agreements and partnerships in the context of the 1970  Convention. The Culture Commission recommended that the General Conference adopt the draft resolution contained in  paragraph 5 of document 38 C/81, as amended by the Legal Committee and by the Culture Commission.
17.23 Also during the fifth debate, the Commission took note, without debate, of the reports concerning the main  activities and decisions taken by the Administrative Council of the International Fund for the Promotion of Culture, as well  as by the Intergovernmental Committee for the Protection of the World Cultural and Natural Heritage (2014-2015), the  Intergovernmental Committee for Promoting the Return of Cultural Property to its Countries of Origin or its Restitution in  case of Illicit Appropriation (1-2 October 2014) and the Intergovernmental Committee for the Safeguarding of the  Intangible Cultural Heritage (June 2012 – June 2014).
17.24 In its sixth and last debate, the Commission examined items 4.22 and 6.2. During the debate, a total of
43 Member States and one observer took the floor. Item 4.22 concerning the re-design of the UNESCO-Aschberg  Bursaries for Artists and amendment of the International Fund for the Promotion of Culture (IFPC) was examined further  to the respective decision of the Executive Board at its 197th session. The delegations that addressed the item agreed  with the proposed resolution. The Czech Republic asked that the oral report reflect its request that the reports submitted  to the governing bodies of the 2005 Convention include a specific chapter on the use of the funds in the UNESCO- Aschberg programme for artists and cultural professionals. The representative of the Director-General recalled that a  certain number of reporting tools and mechanisms, including the System of Information on Strategies, Tasks and the  Evaluation of Results (SISTER), existed to track programme activities. He also recalled that the funds would be used for  the 2005 Convention as well as for the UNESCO Creative Cities Programme. The Culture Commission recommended  the adoption of the draft resolution contained in paragraph 5 of document 38 C/69.
17.25 Item 6.2 on the proposal for a non-binding standard-setting instrument on the protection and promotion of  various aspects of the role of museums and collections was introduced by Mr Bandarin, followed by a presentation by  Mr Nicolas Dimic, Deputy Permanent Delegate of Canada to UNESCO and Rapporteur of the Intergovernmental Meeting  of legal and technical experts relating to the draft Recommendation concerning the Protection and Promotion of  Museums and Collections, their Diversity and their Role in Society, which had taken place on 28 May 2015 at UNESCO  Headquarters.
17.26 Almost without exception, the speakers that took the floor during that debate expressed their full support,  highlighting that the need for a new international instrument on museums had been increasingly called for. It was noted  that the preliminary consultation process and the intergovernmental meeting had allowed discussion and agreement on
367  all different aspects of the Recommendation. Some specific issues raised by some delegations, such as, among others,  the High-Level Forum on Museums and digitization, could be addressed at subsequent workshops and conferences, as  suggested by the representative of the Director-General at the end of the debate.
17.27 Several Member States took the floor to propose amendments to the draft resolution on item 6.2, contained in  paragraph 14 of document 38 C/25, which was recommended for adoption as amended by the Commission. Some  Member States had perceived subparagraphs (a) to (e) of paragraph 3 of the draft resolution as redundant and had  suggested deleting them. As the majority of Member States agreed to retain the subparagraphs as drafted by the  Secretariat, the delegations of Sweden and Norway requested that their view be reflected in the oral report. Also, the  delegation of the United States of America, while supporting the consensus, had some issues as to how Member States  were meant to follow up on the specific recommendations contained in the above-mentioned subparagraphs which were  addressed to museums and museum professionals, and requested that that be reflected in the oral report. The  International Council of Museums (ICOM), also took the floor as an observer and important partner in drafting the text,  and expressed its full support to the Recommendation.
17.28 Ladies and gentlemen, allow me to express my gratitude to all my colleagues in the Culture Commission for the  spirit of cooperation and constructive dialogue that prevailed throughout our debates. My gratitude also goes to Ms  Petya Totcharova, the Secretary of the Commission, Mr César Moreno-Triana, Ms Doyun Lee, Mr Arturo Rey da Silva,  Mr Francisco Gomez Duran, Ms Naïma Boumaiza, Ms Suzanne Martin-Siegfried, and Ms Nathalie Valanchon for  ensuring the Secretariat of the Commission.
17.29 Distinguished delegates, ladies and gentlemen, as it was expressed by the Director-General of UNESCO,  Ms Irina Bokova, in the wake of the barbaric attacks perpetrated in Paris only a few days ago in which violent extremists  struck places of culture and conviviality, they represent “an attack against the whole of humanity”. On behalf of the  Members of the Commission, I would like to condemn these terrible crimes and present my heartfelt condolences to the  French people. I am also very proud that my President yesterday laid flowers at the place where the massacre took place.  On that note, I would like to conclude with the words of the Lithuanian and Polish poet Czesław Miłosz, Nobel Laureate in  Literature in 1980:  “Human reason is beautiful and invincible.  No bars, no barbed wire, no pulping of books,  No sentence of banishment can prevail against it.[…]  It puts what should be above things as they are […]  It does not know Jew from Greek nor slave from master”  Thank you very much.
18. The President:    Thank you very much, Your Excellency, for having delivered such an elaborate report and let me thank the  members of your Commission for their dedication and for having concluded the work of the Commission quite effectively  and efficiently. Are there any comments or suggestions on document 38 C/94? I see the distinguished representative of  Ecuador, followed by the Islamic Republic of Iran.
(19)  Ecuador (translation from the Spanish):    Thank you, Mr President. I would like to take this opportunity to offer our condolences to the French people following  the tragic terrorist attacks of last Friday that affected not only Paris, but all French people and humanity itself. Please convey  my sincere congratulations to the distinguished Ambassador of Lithuania, who was a very efficient chairperson for the Culture  Commission, mostly owing to his dynamism, fairness and objectivity. The distinguished Ambassador led these processes in an  appropriate way and the quality of his leadership was patently apparent, not only as Chairperson of the Commission but also  in other forums relating to culture. As the distinguished Ambassador of Lithuania said, culture is a part of the Organization’s  core functions, and today more than ever we need to preserve it. We must enable UNESCO to play its role in the post-2015  development agenda. Several conventions involving Member States and relating to culture can contribute to sustainable  development. For our country and several other Latin American countries, the 1970 Convention on the Means of Prohibiting
368  and Preventing the Illicit Import, Export and Transfer of Ownership of Cultural Property particularly addresses a fundamental  topic which has seen tremendous progress. In this respect, particularly this year on its 70th anniversary, UNESCO can be  proud to have adopted the operational guidelines of this Convention, which will enable its full implementation. Other tools such  as the Recommendation concerning the Protection and Promotion of Museums and Collections, their Diversity and their Role  in Society are also of major importance. In that regard, I would encourage Member States to apply these tools given to us by  the Organization in a flexible and timely manner. Thank you, Mr President.
20.  The President:   Thank you very much. Let me now invite the distinguished representative of the Islamic Republic of Iran to take  the floor.
21.  Islamic Republic of Iran:    Thank you so much, Mr President. Regarding the recommendations of the Commission concerning draft  resolution 38 C/DR.3, which was proposed by the Islamic Republic of Iran, I would like to remind the Chairperson of the  Commission of Culture that in our deliberations during the sessions, the distinguished representative of Norway only  suggested omitting the operational part of the explanatory note, not the whole explanatory note. Thus, the Islamic  Republic of Iran would like to request that the explanatory note, with the exception of its operational part, remain as it is  and be maintained. This can be also confirmed by the distinguished representative of Norway. Thank you so much.
22.  The President:   Thank you very much. Where is Norway? Yes, you have the floor.
23.  Norway:   Thank you, Mr President. I confirm that Norway only requested the deletion of the operational paragraph in the  explanatory note. Thank you.
24. The President:   Thank you very much. Let me then invite the Chairperson of the Culture Commission to comment on that.
25. Mr Gelūnas (Chairperson of the Culture Commission – CLT):   Thank you very much dear colleagues for your requests and the explanation by the Member State of Norway.  This is well noted. I will contact the Secretariat, and it is probably just a typo, because as you can see, the document is of  enormous size and we will take the necessary measures. Thank you very much.
26.1  The President:   Thank you very much, Mr Chairperson. I believe that will be taken care of and that indeed the necessary  amendments will be made. Are there any further comments to be made? I do not see any. May I then assume that the  General Conference takes note of the report of the Culture Commission and adopts the draft resolutions contained  therein, subject to the decisions that the Conference may take on budgetary issues when adopting the Appropriation  Resolution tomorrow? I see no objections. It is so decided.
26.2 Dear colleagues, Excellencies, ladies and gentlemen, we have thus finished our agenda for this afternoon. And  again I have very good news up my sleeve. The good news is that tomorrow we will not have any plenary meeting, we  only meet in the afternoon to adopt the report of the joint meeting of commissions that will meet in the morning, including  item 3.4, preparation of document 39 C/5, and the Appropriation Resolution for 2016-2017. Let us try to be on time  tomorrow so that we can conclude and land our flight properly without any turbulence. Enjoy the evening and we will see  you tomorrow. This meeting is adjourned.  The meeting rose at 5.20 p.m.  La séance est levée à 17 h 20  Se levanta la sesión a las 17.20  Заседание закрывается в 17.20  بعد الظهر ٥,٢٠رفعت اسلسة يف الساعة     会议于 17 时 20 分结束