1.1 The President    Excellencies, ladies and gentlemen, I believe we can set our journey in motion for this morning. I declare open  the ninth plenary meeting of the General Conference which will be dedicated to the general policy debate. At the end of  this morning’s meeting, we will also hear the reports of the APX Commission on item 1.3 concerning the report by the  Director-General on communications received from Member States invoking the provisions of Article IV.C, paragraph
8(c) of the Constitution. Before we start with our list of speakers for the day, I wish to remind the distinguished delegates  that each statement will be limited to six minutes and six minutes only, with the exception of non-governmental and  intergovernmental organizations, which will have three minutes to address the General Conference.
1.2 I now have the honour to call on our first speaker for this morning who has been patiently waiting for the  President to set the meeting in motion, H.E. Mr Juraj Draxler, Minister of Education, Science, Research and Sport of  Slovakia. Your Excellency you now have the floor.
2.1 Mr Draxler (Slovakia):  Mr President of the General Conference, Mr Chair of the Executive Board, Mr Deputy Director-General,  distinguished delegates. At the outset, I wish to express Slovakia’s alignment with the statement of the European Union  which will be delivered later this morning. It is a great honour for me to address this distinguished gathering, where so  many interesting ideas and suggestions have been raised throughout the past few days.
2.2 We should not miss the unique chance to reunite in the most crucial matters, while celebrating the 70th  anniversary of UNESCO. Slovakia highly appreciates the adoption of the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development,  and recognizes the efforts of UNESCO in leading the preparatory processes for the post-2015 education agenda. The  new agenda, fundamental for educational, environmental, social and economic challenges and for the transformation of  societies towards sustainable growth, is an important basis, which needs to become gradually implemented everywhere.  In this context, we should not forget the less advantaged citizens of the world, and we should provide them with the  conditions necessary for the same quality education and lifelong learning opportunities.
2.3 Slovakia is ready to take an active part in the implementation of the new programme. Many Slovak non- governmental organizations (NGOs) have been active for the past 20 years in areas outside of Europe, as well as the  Slovak Aid Organization, which has been active since 2003. Our development projects include education, rural  development, agriculture and health services.
2.4 Slovakia, as a party to the 2005 Convention on the Protection and Promotion of the Diversity of Cultural  Expressions, which marks its 10th anniversary this year, and a proud member of the Committee, highlights the  importance of its founding principles. The Slovak Republic strongly condemns the recent acts of deliberate destruction of  cultural heritage in the Syrian Arab Republic, Iraq, Yemen, Libya and elsewhere in the wider region, and has decided to  make a substantial contribution to the fund for the protection of cultural property in the event of armed conflict. We also  support the UNESCO call for solidarity “#Unite4Heritage” as an important signal not only to unite for a strong cause, but  also to fight against unacceptable cultural purges by a strengthened promotion of cultural pluralism.
2.5 Distinguished colleagues, let me conclude my statement by inviting all of us to rethink UNESCO by refreshing  our thinking as to how we can start promoting UNESCO again with renewed drive and energy in our home countries. We  have the experience, the tools and we have the responsibility. Let us make the next 70 years of UNESCO even more  successful than its past. Thank you for your attention.
3. The President:   Thank you very much, Your Excellency, for the brevity of your statement. Now unfortunately it seems that I have  run out of boxes of chocolates. I would have given you two. I will see what can be done. Thank you very much. Our next  speaker is His Excellency, the Honourable Mr Shawn Richards, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Education of Saint  Kitts and Nevis. Your Excellency, you have the floor.
4.1 Mr Richards (Saint Kitts and Nevis):   Mr President of the General Conference, Your Excellency, the Honourable Mr Stanley Simataa, President of the
38th session of the General Conference, Mr Chair of the Executive Board, esteemed Director-General, dear colleagues,  fellow Honourable Ministers, distinguished Ambassadors, ladies and gentlemen, good morning. On behalf of the  Government and people of St Kitts and Nevis, and on my own behalf as Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Education  and UNESCO affairs, I wish to heartily congratulate UNESCO on the attainment of an important milestone in reaching
70 years of fruitful existence. My Government also wishes to express our gratitude to UNESCO for its overwhelming  support to my country in providing expertise and assistance on the ground, notably in education, human sciences,  information, society and culture.
4.2 We live in a world where emerging crises arising from economic, environmental and sovereign State challenges  continue to have an adverse impact on the quality of life of citizens who inhabit this Earth. By any measure, UNESCO  has successfully weathered the impact of these storms over the years in delivering its mandate to its Member States,
225  especially in the field of education for all (EFA), and, importantly, at all levels. In speaking from the perspective as part of  a group of small island developing States (SIDS), faced with immense vulnerabilities, and external economic and climatic  challenges to our open-market island economies, our continued survival in a world of rapid upheaval and transformation  requires continued, structured intervention and expertise by UNESCO, and especially at this time.
4.3 Earlier this year, I had the honour to attend and actively participate in the World Education Forum 2015 in  Incheon, Republic of Korea, in order to contribute to the Education 2030 Agenda. My Government remains more  convinced than ever that quality education at all levels holds the key to alleviate poverty and boost sustainable growth,  especially in the context of SIDS, which includes my own country. We urge UNESCO to give special emphasis to  technical and vocational education and training (TVET) and skills development programmes as a critical priority,  especially taking account of the high dropout rate of our young males, and the concomitant consequences of youth  violence. We endorse the strong emphasis on the need for moral values, attitudes and behaviours conducive to a culture  of peace and non-violence, respecting cultural diversity and human rights, with youth at the centre of this philosophy.
4.4 We must be able to unleash and discover the full potential and immense talent that lies within our young people  in more innovative and creative ways. On this account, I encourage the ethical use of the Internet and other information  and communication technologies (ICTs) as a means for enhancing education and training among the student population.  Our cultural heritage and its role in boosting tourism, considering our rich and vibrant history and legacy, must be  deployed in a more professional manner as a means of adding value to the tourism sector. This is why my Government  will be shortly ratifying two additional UNESCO cultural conventions. My delegation applauds UNESCO for its work on  the draft action plan for small island developing States. We are confident that this work will help us to achieve our  national and global agenda, and the ensuing sustainable use of our human and natural resources. I thank you.
5. Mr President:   Thank you very much, Your Excellency. Our next speaker is His Excellency Mr Nesmy Manigat, Minister of  Education and Vocational Training of Haiti.
6.1 M. Manigat (Haïti) :   Monsieur le Président de la Conférence générale, Monsieur le Président du Conseil exécutif, chers collègues,  distingués délégués, Mesdames, Messieurs, c’est pour moi un grand honneur de pouvoir m’adresser, au nom de la  République d’Haïti, à cette auguste assemblée pour réaffirmer l’engagement et l’attachement de mon pays aux valeurs  et idéaux fondateurs de l’UNESCO à l’occasion de son 70e anniversaire.
6.2 Monsieur le Président, je voudrais tout d’abord vous présenter les félicitations d’Haïti pour votre élection à la  présidence de la Conférence générale. Je vous souhaite plein succès dans la direction des travaux de cette 38e session.  Je voudrais également féliciter la Directrice générale, le Président du Conseil exécutif ainsi que les membres de cet  organe pour l’immense travail accompli au cours de ces deux dernières années.
6.3 Mesdames, Messieurs, face à la montée des intolérances, à la persistance des inégalités sociales, aux  problèmes de migration et aux crimes contre le patrimoine culturel mondial, les idéaux de l’UNESCO n’ont rien perdu de  leur actualité et de leur pertinence après 70 années d’action. Les défis sont encore là et nous devons rester  constamment vigilants pour la sauvegarde de nos valeurs. Défendre et promouvoir le dialogue, la tolérance, le respect et  la valorisation des différences, le sens du partage et de la solidarité, tel devrait être notre leitmotiv en vue de construire  un monde meilleur pour les générations futures. Comme nous l’affirmons – dans ma langue maternelle – dans le cadre  de notre campagne d’éducation nationale à la citoyenneté : « Nou tout sanble men lè nou diferan », « Nous sommes  tous semblables au-delà de nos différences ».
6.4 Voilà pourquoi il nous faut renforcer la capacité de notre Organisation pour lui permettre de continuer à  contribuer au maintien de la paix et de la sécurité en resserrant les liens entre les nations et en influençant le quotidien  de chaque citoyen afin que chacun soit acteur du changement, acteur de son devenir. Dans cette perspective, chaque  État membre doit donner plus d’importance aux idéaux et programmes de l’UNESCO et aux Objectifs de développement  durable (ODD) et travailler à leur mise en œuvre. Haïti prend pleinement l’engagement de jouer son rôle à cet effet au  sein de la communauté internationale. Au niveau national, le renouvellement des institutions démocratiques en cours  augure de bonnes perspectives pour la mise en œuvre des ODD.
6.5 Le Gouvernement haïtien s’est déjà engagé à permettre à chaque enfant d’avoir accès de manière équitable à  une éducation de qualité. Dans cette optique, les mesures qu’il a prises ont permis de parvenir à un taux net de  scolarisation de 46 %. Aujourd’hui, environ 4 % de notre PIB est investi dans l’éducation, contre 2 % il y a 10 ans. Un  ensemble de 12 mesures ont été adoptées, une vaste réforme des programmes d’enseignement est lancée, le  secondaire est en cours de rénovation, le préscolaire est réorganisé et un plan de formation des maîtres est en train  d’être actualisé, un registre des maîtres devant donner accès à un permis d’enseigner. En plus de ces actions, une  mobilisation citoyenne est lancée à travers un pacte national pour une éducation de qualité afin que tous les gouvernants  et la société civile s’engagent dans cette dynamique de rénovation du système éducatif. Il s’agit de doter le secteur de  moyens à la hauteur de ses ambitions en doublant notamment le budget et en consacrant 8 % du PIB à l’éducation. Des  actions sont aussi engagées pour renforcer le secteur de la formation professionnelle afin d’offrir d’autres opportunités  aux jeunes et de favoriser leur employabilité.
6.6 Un autre programme de l’UNESCO important pour mon pays est le Programme sur l’Homme et la biosphère.  Après avoir déclaré sa première réserve de biosphère en 2012, la République d’Haïti vient de soumettre une déclaration  pour une deuxième réserve. Je profite de cette tribune pour encourager l’UNESCO à renforcer tous ses programmes de  sciences.
6.7 En ce qui concerne le programme relatif à la culture, Haïti met en œuvre les conventions à travers le  renforcement des capacités des institutions concernées et l’inventaire des éléments du patrimoine en vue de leur  appropriation par les communautés locales, de leur conservation et de leur transmission aux jeunes générations. Au  nom du peuple haïtien, au nom de mon Gouvernement, au nom de la communauté éducative et de tous les enseignants,  je renouvelle à cet égard mes remerciements à l’UNESCO, en particulier aux membres de son équipe en Haïti ainsi qu’à  tous ses partenaires pour leur appui continu.
6.8 Mesdames, Messieurs, en 70 ans, l’UNESCO a fait son travail de réflexion transdisciplinaire prospective et  préventive. Mais les défis sont tels qu’il nous faut constamment nous remettre au travail afin d’atteindre l’homme/la  femme ordinaire dans son quotidien et faire de lui/d’elle un instrument de paix, un instrument de liberté, d’égalité et de  fraternité. Continuons la mobilisation afin de permettre à l’UNESCO de disposer de davantage de ressources pour la  mise en œuvre des Objectifs de développement durable. Merci de votre attention.
7. Mr President:   Thank you very much, Your Excellency. Our next speaker is Her Excellency Honorable Ms Fatou Lamin Faye,  Minister of Basic and Secondary Education of Gambia. Your Excellency, you now have the floor.
8.1 Ms Faye (Gambia):   Bismillāh ir-raḥmān ir-raḥīm (In the name of God, the Merciful, the Compassionate). Your Excellency  Mr President of the General Conference, Madam Director-General, Excellencies, Mr Chair and Members of the  Executive Board, Permanent Delegates, distinguished ladies and gentlemen. Let me first and foremost congratulate His  Excellency, Stanley Mutumba Simataa on his election to the Presidency of the 38th session of the General Conference,  and by the same token thank his immediate predecessor, His Excellency, Mr Hao Ping, for the successful conduct of the
37th session held in 2013. As a Member State of UNESCO, Gambia continues to support the promotion of the ideals  upon which this Organization was founded and the prominence given to its fields of competence for which I am  exceedingly pleased to share our country’s impressions with this session.
8.2 On education, Gambia heartily recognizes the leadership role UNESCO has played in the preparatory,  consultative and finalization processes of the post-2015 education agenda culminating in a framework for action that will  guide the implementation of our future education endeavours in education. Accordingly, Gambia has concluded recently  a national education conference aimed at formulating a sector-wide education policy for the period 2016-2030 with a  clear focus on the provision of inclusive and equitable quality education and training from early childhood development to  university education for sustainable development.
8.3 On natural sciences, Gambia is appreciative of UNESCO’s global initiative in convening the Second Ministerial  Forum on Science, Technology and Innovation in Africa coupled with the important place that science has been  accorded in the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) on the oceans, freshwater and biodiversity. It is therefore no  coincidence that UNESCO provided support to Gambia to finalize its science, technology and innovation (STI) policy.
8.4 On the social and human sciences, Gambia applauds UNESCO on the first phase of consolidating the  integration of social transformations, foresight and intercultural dialogue. Gambia would like to put on record its sincere  appreciation of the successful organization in Baku of the first global forum on youth policy in collaboration with the  United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) giving the potential for enhanced intercultural dialogue and social  transformations of this laudable initiative. Through the 2014-2015 UNESCO Participation Programme, Gambia has  received funding to accelerate youth governance with emphasis on improving the effectiveness of the implementation of  the national youth policy. In the area of gender, the Government of Gambia has made encouraging advancements in the  formulation and implementation of the gender equality and women’s empowerment policy of 2010-2020 and has enacted  and is enforcing the Women’s Act of 2010, the Domestic Violence Act and the Sexual Offences Act, both of 2013.
8.5 Gambia salutes UNESCO for the progress registered in the implementation of the culture conventions; notably  the priority focus on statutory meetings, the developed responses to emerging crisis situations, and the substantial work  being undertaken to ensure the recognition of culture in the post-2015 development agenda. In accordance with the 2003  and 2005 conventions, the cultural sector in Gambia has continued to gain momentum. The new management plan
(2014-2018) for the world heritage site of Kunta Kinteh Island and related sites has been finalized with support provided  by the African World Heritage Fund (AWHF).
8.6 Under the 2014-2015 Participation Programme, the sector received funding to train 25 young Gambians,  including women, on the Motion Pictures Arts Certificate (MPAC) programme in the various specializations of  cinematography, script writing and directing. This is expected to change the lives of these graduates significantly through  the self-employment opportunities it provides.
8.7 On communication and information, Gambia is satisfied with the action taken thus far relative to freedom of  expression, media development and building knowledge societies through information and communication technology  (ICT). The Government of the Gambia knows the challenges of our national and international telecommunications  connectivity infrastructure and realizes the need to overhaul the national communication infrastructure to keep up with  the progressive advancement of information and communication technologies. In this regard, steps were taken to  address the challenges and assure that Gambia can now boast of connectivity to the global information superhighway  through its own submarine cable landing station. This high bandwidth cable is being exploited by the roll-out of national  transmission through fibre-optic cable country-wide and fully supported by the next-generation networks to foster an all- inclusive broadband development programme.
8.8 In conclusion, Gambia wishes to recognize the efforts of UNESCO over the past 70 years towards the  realization of peace and sustainable development in the Member States. To this end, I am pleased to reaffirm Gambia’s
227  continued resolve to promote and uphold the principles and ideals of this great Organization to which our country proudly  belongs. I thank you all for your kind attention.
(10.1) Ms Saeed (Sudan) (translation from the Arabic):   In the name of God, the Merciful, the Compassionate. Mr President of the General Conference, Mr Chair of the  Executive Board, Excellencies, ministers and heads and members of delegations, Ms Bokova, Director-General, peace and  the mercy and blessings of God be upon you. Brother President, allow me to congratulate you on your unanimous election as  President of the General Conference at its current session. We also congratulate your predecessor, Mr Hao Ping, who steered  the work of the previous session with great ability, wisdom and patience, and offer thanks and appreciation to the Chair of the  Executive Board and all other elected colleagues. I also beg you to allow me, on behalf of my country’s delegation, to express  thanks and appreciation to Ms Irina Bokova, Director-General of UNESCO, for her unflagging efforts, together with her  colleagues, to devise all possible ways to strengthen the role of the Organization in building the society of science, peace and
228  social harmony. On behalf of the Government of Sudan, we wish every success to the deliberations of this important session  of the General Conference, which coincides with the 70th anniversary of the foundation of the Organization.
(10.2) Sudan has participated effectively in the debate and consultations which the Organization launched with the Member  States, beginning in Muscat and ending in Incheon, to define the objective of education for all (EFA), which is to ensure good- quality, equitable and comprehensive education for all, and to strengthen lifelong education opportunities, within the  sustainable development goals beyond 2015. We recall that Sudan has adopted its own general plan for education. The main  obstacles on our path to education, science and culture are unilateral coercive economic obstacles which prevent us from  implementing our own plans to achieve those lofty goals. Following the completion of the 2005 peace agreement and the entry  into force of the 2011 Doha peace agreement, my country was looking forward to seeing the international community devote  particular attention to economic, social and cultural issues in Sudan. We were also looking forward to a renewal of  development assistance and institutional support for our country, on the model of a number of other post-conflict countries.
(10.3) My country is absolutely convinced that education is crucial to human development, and has received a fair share of  attention, which has helped it to enhance education indicators in Sudan by increasing education opportunities, enhancing  quality, increasing attendance rates at the primary and secondary levels, devoting particular attention to the education of girls  and young women in order to achieve gender equality, providing the necessary support from the Government, community  partnerships and international sources in the field of education, such as the Global Partnership for Education (GPE), UNESCO  and other organizations, expanding the use of small science laboratories in secondary schools, and achieving vertical and  horizontal expansion in higher education. Sudan appreciates the role played by UNESCO in the field of the natural sciences in  Sudan, where it has helped to renovate the policy for science, technology and innovation by responding to the initiative of the  President of the Republic for the establishment of the Regional Centre on Capacity Development and Research in Water  Harvesting, a category 2 centre under the auspices of UNESCO, which is in line with our strategy for the preservation of this  vital resource.
(10.4) My country devotes particular attention to encouraging scientific thinking in order to identify and analyse current  challenges and to mobilize the knowledge and skills of the social sciences to enable women and youth, both key elements in  sustainable development, to achieve national and social development and peace, and to contribute to efforts aimed at  combating stimulants and narcotics and promoting cultural and social pluralism, as well as drawing on noble humanitarian  values in the interests of dialogue, co-existence, tolerance and communication. We are endeavouring to build awareness of  the ethical aspects of scientific progress in the modern fields of the biological sciences and biotechnology, in order to  determine their ethical, legal and social impact, build bridges, strengthen the relationship between researchers and policy- makers, and benefit from the opportunities available in order to conclude partnerships. Here we commend the role played by  the UNESCO Chair in Bioethics, located in the University of Khartoum. Sudan appreciates the role of UNESCO in building and  developing capacities in information and communication technologies (ICTs) and the information media in local communities,  free access to information, and closing the digital gap to enable communities to exploit their own production and promote their  heritage.
(10.5) Sudan, with its vast area and diversity of cultures and local communities is proud of its rich and diverse intangible  heritage in many aspects of life. We appreciate the international assistance Sudan has received from UNESCO to inventory  and document the intangible cultural heritage in South Kordofan and, the Blue Nile. Sudan is probably one of the world’s  countries that has the most historical archaeological monuments and sites such as pyramids, necropolises, both Islamic and  Christian heritage as well as the ancient Nubian civilizations which arose on the banks of the Nile. Some of them have been  inscribed on the World Heritage List, such as Gebel Barkal and the Sites of the Napatan Region and Archaeological Sites of  the Island of Meroe, and some are in process, such as Sanganeb Marine National Park and Dungonab Bay – Mukkawar Island  Marine National Park in the Red Sea. In this connection, allow me to offer thanks and appreciation to fraternal Qatar for its  constant efforts to provide assistance with the Nubian remains in Sudan, in cooperation with UNESCO. Mr President, ladies  and gentlemen, we hope that this General Conference will be successful in strengthening the determination of all Member  States to promote the noble goals of the Organization in building a society of science, culture, knowledge and peace. Peace  and the mercy and blessings of God be upon you.
(12.1) Mr El-Shihy (Egypt) translation from the Arabic:   Excellencies, Mr President of the General Conference, Mr Chair of the Executive Board, Madam Director-General,  ladies and gentlemen, Excellencies, ministers, heads of delegations and representatives of Member States, allow me at the  outset to offer sincere congratulations to His Excellency Mr Stanley Mutumba Simataa, Deputy Minister of  Telecommunications and Information Technology of Namibia, on his election as President of the General Conference of  UNESCO at its 38th session, and to wish him every success in the performance of his new functions. I also offer sincere  thanks and appreciation Mr Hao Ping, President of the General Conference at its previous session, for his outstanding efforts.  In this connection, I am bound to salute Professor Doctor Mohamed Sameh Amr, Chair of the Executive Board, for his  outstanding stewardship during his term of office as Chair of the Executive Board over the past biennium. On behalf of my  country, I should like to offer sincere thanks to Ms Irina Bokova for her efforts to strengthen and develop the role of UNESCO  and restructure its activities and achieve its development goals against the backdrop of the financial crisis which still  overshadows the Organization.
(12.2) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in adopting the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development and a bold set of  global goals, the whole world is hoping for a better tomorrow in which the tensions and suspended regional conflicts which  have not been resolved in a just and balanced manner may be contained, and in which the methodology of multilateral work  may be strengthened, international legality and human rights respected, the culture of the Other respected, freedom of opinion  and expression ensured, and gender equality guaranteed. UNESCO, that venerable Organization, on its 70th anniversary,  must benefit from the positive climate we enjoy to work to dynamize its pioneering role to preserve the human heritage and  activate the dialogue among various parties.
(12.3) Ladies and gentlemen, Egypt is today firmly engaged in implanting the rules of democracy and ensuring that they are  respected. Now we are nearing the end of the roadmap which we began to implement in 2013, and this has been  accompanied by a great effort exerted by the State to achieve sustainable development for a people which is endeavouring to  build, progress, achieve well-being; a people which is trying to race time to achieve its dream of building a better future for the  coming generations. At the same time, we are doing our level best to fight against and repel terrorism. Egypt has contributed  effectively to framing the 2030 Sustainable Development Goals in cooperation with civil society organizations; these reflect the  views, hopes and aspirations of various social actors; they are characterized by democracy, balance, and participation in  decision-making, and particular attention has been paid in them to such key issues as the empowerment of women, who make  up half of society, the empowerment of youth in order to benefit from their enthusiasm and make them a positive and  constructive force, since they are the leaders of the future.
(12.4) Climate change is one of Egypt’s top concerns, especially in view of Egypt’s presidency of the Committee of African  Heads of State and Government on Climate Change, and Egypt’s achievements and vision in this regard in recent times. It is  expected that the African position will be strong and influential at the forthcoming climate change summit in Paris. The  Government is busy developing curricula and reforming the teaching process, paying close attention to educational activities  and developing education by means of continuing teacher training. Egypt’s plan to promote education has three basic  mainstays: “quality, education system management, and access”, given that we are convinced that there cannot be a strong  economy without a strong educational system, and that education and scientific research in any country is the main engine of  economic and social development.
(12.5) We take this opportunity to express our appreciation of the Organization’s efforts towards Egypt. Ever since its  inception, UNESCO has endeavoured to offer all possible support, from assistance with the relocation of the Abu Simbel  temples in Nubia, Upper Egypt, one of the greatest monuments of the human world heritage, to the project for the revival of  the Alexandria Library. Cooperation has continued over the past biennium with regard to education and its development,  assistance with the implementation of the education development plan in Egypt, the provision of assistance with the protection  of archaeological sites and heritage of global value in Egypt. In view of all that, we are bound to offer sincere thanks to the  Director-General and the Secretariat for all that they have done. We hope that such fruitful cooperation may continue.  UNESCO must take all necessary steps and measures to protect the religious places and the archaeological sites in  Jerusalem, and we hope that effect will be given to the decisions of the Executive Board on dispatching a technical mission to  visit Jerusalem, and that a report thereon will be submitted to the Executive Board at its forthcoming session. In conclusion,  Egypt, which had the honour to participate in drafting the ideas and principles that the founding fathers enshrined in  UNESCO’s Constitution, reiterates its full commitment to working to achieve the goals of the Organization and to bringing  about peace and development for the peoples of the world. Peace and the mercy and blessings of God be upon you.
13. The President:   Thank you very much, Your Excellency. Our next speaker is His Excellency Mr Philneas Magagula, Minister of  Education and Training of Swaziland. Your Excellency, you have the floor.
14.1 Mr Magagula (Swaziland):   Mr President, kindly allow me on behalf of the Kingdom of Swaziland to warmly and heartily congratulate you for  being elected to the Presidency of this session. Let me reaffirm and reassure you of Swaziland’s unwavering  commitment and support you in your new and demanding duties. The Government of Swaziland would like to pay its  tribute and appreciation to UNESCO for the enormous support afforded the country for the past 37 years. The last  biennium is no exception as we continued to receive great support from UNESCO, as will be highlighted in this  statement.
14.2 We pay our tribute to UNESCO for continuing to support the country through the Participation Programme. The  support extended through the programme contributes to the development of the country and has assisted in the  development of critical national policies. This support has also contributed to the visibility of UNESCO in Swaziland and  we advocate that this programme is sustained and strengthened.
14.3 Swaziland is elated to be among the countries that have participated and contributed to the Education 2030  Framework for Action and pledges to put efforts into the attainment of the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs).  Swaziland subscribes to SDG 4, which stresses inclusive and equitable quality education and the promotion of lifelong  learning opportunities for all. Indeed, Swaziland has placed quality high on its agenda for education. The support of  UNESCO, through the UNESCO International Bureau of Education (IBE), to analyse the quality of education in the  country in a bid to improve the quality, is highly valued.
14.4 Swaziland has recognized more than ever that there is need to put more effort in proper technical and vocational  education and training (TVET) provision, which has been recognized as critical for enhancing the gains of education as a  sustainable developmental tool. Hence, we applaud UNESCO’s support for the development of national policies to  enhance effective TVET provision among our nations and support the inclusion of TVET in the 2030 Agenda for  Sustainable Development.
14.5 Swaziland strongly applauds support for the preservation of tangible and intangible cultural heritage and the  promotion of the diversity of cultural expressions. Swaziland is a country that is rich in culture and aims to preserve and  promote it. UNESCO’s support, both technical and financial, has contributed enormously to this goal. One has to  highlight the fact that with UNESCO’s support, for the first time in the national multiple indicator cluster survey (MICS),  culture-related indicators were included. These indicators show how culture through social participation can contribute to  the development of the country.
14.6 We urge UNESCO to continue support for the advancement of science and technology, especially in relation to  policy. Swaziland has benefited from UNESCO support in the development of the national science, technology and  innovation (STI) policy, and the science, mathematics and technology education policy. The existence of these policies  has paved a way forward for the advancement of science and technology in the country.
14.7 Last but not least, Swaziland would like to extend its special appreciation to the Director and staff of the  Regional Office for Southern Africa for the support extended to the National Commission for UNESCO in Swaziland. With  their support and guidance, the National Commission has been able to effectively carry out activities related to the  mandate of UNESCO with more focus and direction. This has had a great impact in increasing the visibility of UNESCO  in the Kingdom, within the Government sectors, civil society and even at grass-roots level. Above all, this has contributed  to the welfare and development of the Swazi people. On behalf of the Kingdom of Swaziland, I pledge our continued  support and commitment to UNESCO and its mandate. I thank you.
15. The President:   Thank you very much, Your Excellency. Our next speaker is Her Excellency Ms Mirela Kumbaro, Minister of  Culture of Albania. Your Excellency, you have the floor.
16.1 Mme Kumbaro (Albanie) :  Monsieur le Président, Excellences, Mesdames et Messieurs, je suis honorée de m’adresser à vous aujourd’hui  au nom de l'Albanie. Permettez-moi, Monsieur le Président, de vous féliciter pour votre élection à la présidence de cette  Conférence si importante.
16.2 Personne ne peut se passer de la culture. La seule limite, c’est notre volonté. Mon pays, l’Albanie, fier  d’appartenir à la famille de l’UNESCO, a fait preuve d’une ferme volonté pour respecter et poursuivre notre objectif
231  commun de sauvegarde des cultures et de développement de l’éducation. À cette occasion, je voudrais remercier  sincèrement le Centre du patrimoine mondial, non seulement d’avoir accompagné nos institutions dans leur action de  sauvegarde du patrimoine, mais aussi d’avoir accueilli favorablement les efforts entrepris par l’État albanais pour  répondre à ses recommandations. C’est l’occasion de souligner à quel point la coopération du Centre est utile à chacun  des pays membres de l’UNESCO, car sa philosophie, ses méthodes de travail, ses objectifs sont universels.
16.3 Permettez-moi à ce propos d’attirer votre attention sur la demande d’adhésion du Kosovo à l’UNESCO. En  décidant de recommander à la Conférence générale l’adhésion du Kosovo à l’UNESCO suivant un projet de décision  proposé par l’Albanie, le Conseil exécutif de l’UNESCO a été dans son rôle institutionnel. Excellences, Mesdames et  Messieurs, le Kosovo – reconnu par 111 États membres de l’Organisation des Nations Unies et membre de plusieurs  organisations internationales – est déjà une réalité géopolitique en Europe du Sud-Est. Fortement attaché aux principes  de démocratie, de défense des droits de l’homme et d’état de droit, le Kosovo ne cesse d’affirmer son aspiration  européenne. Il vient de le prouver notamment en signant, à Strasbourg, l’Accord de stabilisation et d’association avec  l’Union européenne. Dans leur approche du patrimoine culturel, les autorités kosovares ont fait preuve de responsabilité  institutionnelle et culturelle, de même que les élites du Kosovo. L’Église orthodoxe serbe est reconnue au Kosovo, et son  identité et ses droits sont protégés par la Constitution et d'autres lois. Les sites de l'UNESCO et tous les sites du  patrimoine culturel sont sûrs et visités par des milliers de touristes chaque année car ils sont protégés par un cadre  juridique consolidé et moderne adopté par le Kosovo et parrainé en grande partie par la communauté internationale  présente au Kosovo. La grande majorité des objets endommagés par les émeutes de 2004 sont aujourd'hui restaurés et  reconstruits grâce aux financements du Gouvernement du Kosovo et de ses partenaires internationaux.
16.4 Mesdames et Messieurs, depuis l’aube de la civilisation balkanique, le patrimoine culturel au Kosovo a été le  socle commun d’hommes et de femmes qui ont tout partagé des siècles durant. Un conflit, et les animosités d’une  génération, voire de deux, ne peuvent pas changer ce que la terre contient dans sa matrice culturelle et historique. Il n’e  s’agit pas simplement d’adhésion à l’UNESCO. C’est une question d’émancipation de la société – de toutes nos  sociétés – et surtout d’ouverture d’esprit. L’adhésion du Kosovo à l’UNESCO est non seulement nécessaire mais aussi  méritée. Le Kosovo, par son histoire, ses habitants, ses monuments et sa culture, a préservé une partie de la mosaïque  culturelle des Balkans. Tous les autres États de la région – tous les autres pays des Balkans – sont membres de  l’UNESCO et il ne serait pas logique qu’un membre de la famille balkanique ne soit pas formellement à l’intérieur de  l’organisation qui est la plus importante en matière de culture et d’éducation, alors qu’il en fait déjà partie par son lien  organique et historique.
16.5 La culture ne connait pas de frontières administratives. La culture ne se protège pas par l’exclusion de l’Autre.  Au contraire, elle s’enrichit par l’échange et l’inclusion. C’est l’essence même de l’existence de l’UNESCO. L’adhésion  du Kosovo à l’UNESCO profitera non seulement à ce pays, mais également à ses voisins, la Serbie, l’Albanie, la  Macédoine et le Monténégro, qui ont autant à y gagner. On ne peut protéger et promouvoir sa propre culture et son  patrimoine culturel sans protéger et promouvoir ceux des voisins, ceux de l’Autre. Sous le contrôle et avec l’assistance  de l’Organisation, le pays devra veiller avec une attention toute particulière sur un patrimoine matériel et immatériel, y  compris les monuments déjà inscrits sur la Liste du patrimoine mondial. Loin de menacer ce patrimoine essentiel à la  mémoire des Serbes du Kosovo, l'adhésion du pays à l'UNESCO créera en fait des conditions et des garanties  supplémentaires pour sa protection.
16.6 Mesdames et Messieurs, il est grand temps que les Balkans, auxquels est longtemps resté attaché le cliché de  « poudrière de l’Europe », deviennent « un tonneau de culture » en Europe. Nous exhortons nos amis serbes à saisir  cette opportunité pour faire preuve d’esprit de coopération et de loyauté par rapport aux engagements pris, qui invitent à  regarder vers un avenir européen auquel Serbes et Albanais doivent accéder ensemble. C’est le sens même de  l’Histoire et ce sera, à n’en pas douter, l’énième et discrète victoire de la Culture. Merci.
17. The President:   Thank you very much, Your Excellency. Our next speaker is His Excellency, Mr Jose Antonio Zepeda Lopez,  Member of Parliament of Nicaragua. Your Excellency, you have the floor.
(18.1) Mr Zepeda Lopez (Nicaragua) (translation from the Spanish):    Your Excellency Stanley Mutumba Simataa, President of the General Conference, Your Excellency Mohamed Sameh  Amr, Chair of the Executive Board, Your Excellency Irina Bokova, Director-General de UNESCO, dear delegates attending this  Conference, allow me to begin this statement by recalling our founder and father of the Sandinista people’s revolution, Commander  Carlos Fonseca Amador, who, on a date like today, passed into immortality, leaving us the legacy of guaranteeing the right to  education, culture and well-being. Since the time of the bitter struggle against dictatorship, he affirmed that it was important not only  to teach the use of weapons but also to teach the rural population to read, in the struggle to free our people and ensure progress  and peace. We have listened very carefully to the various statements by the representatives of the governments, who have been  unanimous in their desire for and interest in the training of teachers and their inclusion in processes of change in education. We  believe that it is vital for our region that the UNESCO International Institute for Higher Education in Latin America and the  Caribbean (IESALC) should be maintained and strengthened. We also believe it is important to maintain and strengthen  UNESCO’s Social and Human Sciences Sector, in particular the MOST Programme, to continue sharing experiences and best  practices in the integration of our societies. We welcome the initiative to ensure that schools in conflict zones are protected and  preserved. Given its profound commitment to peace and well-being for the peoples of the world, Nicaragua regrets the destruction  and looting of our tangible and intangible heritage in occupied and conflict zones. The illegal occupation of Palestine must not  continue; it must end! Barbarity and terrorism, in all their forms, must be stopped!
(18.2) Mr President, today I address you as an educator and a trade-union leader, leading our delegation as a practical  expression of our President’s policy of emphasizing dialogue, consensus and leadership as tools to represent and resolve the  problems facing the Government of Reconciliation and National Unity led by the President, Commander Daniel Ortega, and  comrade Rosario Murillo. Our Government adopts and endorses the Education 2030 Framework for Action, a framework destined  to develop and fulfil the commitment to restore the right to free and quality public education. The educational paths established for  the development of peoples focus on the training and practice of values based on our traditions, culture and customs, a humanistic  education that revolves around the strengthening of the family as the fundamental pillar of society. Mr President, much remains to  be done; policies are adjusted according to the challenges faced, but we are steadily making headway, building alternatives for our  development; education programmes such as rural secondary education, vocational schools, strengthening of technical education,  methodological transformation of the first grade as well as the incorporation of pre-school education in rural areas, special needs  education, education for youth and adults are just some of the actions that can enable our people to exercise their right to  education. Training and practice of values based on love and respect allow us to forge conscientious people who accept peoples’  differences and fight to achieve equity and to build a better world, a world based on respect for life, the eradication of poverty and  famine; a world in peace, where children are not killed by bullets and bombs; a world where people are allowed to be governed by  their decisions and not by imposed conditions that lead to their forced displacement to other countries, countries that are alarmed  by this immigration and do not fight their causes; and blame is laid on those who have lost peace and well-being because of the  decisions made by those who consider themselves to be the police of good and evil.
(18.3) On this 70th anniversary of UNESCO, it is important to reflect upon the progress made in educational commitments and  the challenges imposed by scientific and technical progress. Capital development should not be the only reference for educational  strengthening; education should be focused on the development and strengthening of people’s skills and abilities, education that  provides capacities for opportunities, education for peace and respect for life and mother Earth. Our pride in being Nicaraguan is  based on having a country, having dreams come true and being aware that the road is long, but that we have begun to walk it, led  by Commander Daniel Ortega, with the steady and sure step of victory. Nicaragua contributes and will continue to allocate financial  resources to make progress not only in the area of universal school coverage but also to achieve quality education that strengthens  creativity and innovation, enabling people to use technology for good and well-being; and education that restores rights, so that  people are trained in the fulfilment of duty. Only then will there be sustainable development in harmony with the environment.
(18.4) Mr President, in 2016 and 2017, Nicaragua will be celebrating the centenary of the death and the 150th anniversary of the  birth of our distinguished poet Rubén Darío, Father of Modernism. We thank the Member States and, in particular, the Director- General, Ms Irina Bokova, for their enthusiasm in accompanying our commemoration and contributing to its universalization. Thank  you very much.
19. The President:   Thank you very much, Your Excellency. Our next speaker is His Excellency Mr Anar Karimov, Ambassador,  Permanent Delegate of Azerbaijan to UNESCO. Your Excellency, you now have the floor.
20.1 Mr Karimov (Azerbaijan):   Dear Mr President of the General Conference, dear Madam Director-General, Excellencies, ladies and  gentlemen. First of all, I would like to congratulate you, Mr President, on your election and express my heartfelt wishes  for a successful presidency. Allow me also to thank the outgoing President, Mr Hao Ping, for the excellent work during  his mandate.
20.2 Ladies and gentlemen, UNESCO has passed through 70 years with the sacred goal of “building peace in the  minds of men and women”. Several legal instruments were established, important conferences were held, and messages  were sent all around the world in order to better protect and promote a culture of peace, to establish and ensure the  continuity of intercultural dialogue, provide better access to education for all, preserve the environment and thus create  better social and economic conditions for citizens of the world irrespective of their race, religion or ethnic background.
20.3 Unfortunately, the world is still witnessing wars and conflicts, extremism, radicalization, destruction of cultural  and religious heritage. The international community cannot stay indifferent vis-a-vis such violence. We are glad that  UNESCO, through its existing mechanisms and resources, spares no effort to keep this issue high on the agenda. In this  regard, we welcome the “#Unite4Heritage” campaign launched by the Director-General, as well as the elaboration of the  strategy to reinforce UNESCO’s action for the protection of culture and the promotion of cultural pluralism in the event of  armed conflict.
20.4 We are living through historic moments, when the United Nations just recently adopted new Sustainable  Development Goals (SDGs) with the aim of achieving a better and safer world built upon sustainable economic and  social development. I am confident that with its expertise and knowledge on education, UNESCO will successfully lead  the international community to achieve the targets incorporated in the SDGs.
20.5 Distinguished delegates, Azerbaijan attaches great importance to cooperation with UNESCO. This cooperation  has become more intensive after the signing of the framework agreement on cooperation between UNESCO and  Azerbaijan in July 2013. Azerbaijan decided to sign this agreement with the primary goal of supporting UNESCO in this  difficult time to advance its activities in core areas. This includes supporting UNESCO in such priority areas as education  for all, girls’ education, safeguarding tangible and intangible cultural heritage, science and innovation technologies,  disaster risk preparedness and many others.
20.6 Let me give you a few examples of the projects that are being implemented within the framework agreement:  girls’ education in east African countries; support for the technical and vocational education and training (TVET) sub- sector through the Capacity Building for Education for All (CapEFA) programme in Liberia; and the Avicenna Virtual  Campus in Central Asia, a large-scale programme for teacher training in science and technology. While mentioning all  these activities, I am delighted to underline the tremendous support of Her Excellency, Ms Mehriban Aliyeva, First Lady  of Azerbaijan and UNESCO Goodwill Ambassador, in making these projects possible, as well as in promoting the  message of peace and UNESCO’s core values worldwide.
20.7 Ladies and gentlemen, situated on the crossroads of civilizations, cultures and religions, Azerbaijan is a place  for intercultural dialogue, and we are proud of that. The World Forum on Intercultural Dialogue held in Azerbaijan for the  third time is one of the best examples of our commitment to promote inter-religious and intercultural dialogue. I would like  to thank UNESCO as official partner of the Forum for its support and contribution to the success of this important event.
20.8 However, it is with profound regret that I must add that peace, security and stability in our region continue to be  endangered and UNESCO’s principles and values remain violated by an ongoing military occupation of the territories of  Azerbaijan by the armed forces of Armenia. In fact, the deliberate acts of destruction of cultural heritage in different parts  of the world is not something new to my people. Such and similar acts took place many years ago as a result of a cultural  cleansing policy, and not a single historical monument, mosque or cemetery testifying to the centuries’ old historical  presence of the Azerbaijani population escapes destruction or desecration in the occupied territories and in Armenia  itself. What is more interesting is that while being involved in all these crimes, and being a unique – I repeat – unique  mono-ethnic and mono-religious country in a very diverse region, Armenia is trying to teach others about diversity and  tolerance – dangerous, very flabbergasting logic.
20.9 Ladies and gentlemen, it is regretful that instead of using this forum to spread a message of peace and dialogue,  yesterday we again heard hate and intolerance in the speech of the Foreign Minister of Armenia. But we still believe that
234  the whole international community should stand together with UNESCO in achieving all goals that are ahead for the  creation of a safer world for humanity with sustainable peace, prosperity and development. Thank you very much.
21. The President:   Thank you very much, Your Excellency. Our next speaker is Her Excellency, Ms Mariam Katagum, Ambassador,  Permanent Delegate of Nigeria to UNESCO. Your Excellency, you now have the floor.
22.1 Ms Katagum (Nigeria):   Mr President of the General Conference, Mr Chair of the Executive Board, Madam Director-General of  UNESCO, Excellencies, Honourable Ministers, Ambassadors, ladies and gentlemen. I bring you warm greetings and  best wishes from the President of the Federal Republic of Nigeria, His Excellency, President Muhammadu Buhari, Grand  Commander of the Order of the Federal Republic (GCFR), and the people of Nigeria. We warmly congratulate you,  Mr President, on your election and are confident that you and your great country will provide guidance to the  Organization as we make the first moves towards the implementation of the United Nations 2030 Agenda for Sustainable  Development. On this historic occasion, as we mark the 70th anniversary of our dear Organization, it is with pride and  great pleasure that we in Nigeria acknowledge and celebrate the richness and fruitfulness of our 55 years of association  with UNESCO.
22.2 Mr President, in recognition of its mandate and its proven achievements, the international community has placed  UNESCO very much in the centre of several of the global activities for today and for the future. It is therefore up to us, as  Member States, to ensure that UNESCO is provided with the means it needs to meet its ever-growing responsibilities.  This is why Nigeria has often pleaded for more funds for UNESCO; if only some token increase in its budget, which has  remained stagnant for several biennia.
22.3 Given the prevailing situation in the Organization, Nigeria is willing to go along with the emerging consensus for  the proposed option for the zero nominal growth-plus (ZNG+) scenario for the 2016-2017 budget. Furthermore, we shall  continue to provide core budget support for the UNESCO Institute for Lifelong Learning (UIL) and the UNESCO  International Bureau of Education (IBE) in recognition of their excellent performance, although our membership and  presidency of IBE is coming to an end.
22.4 Distinguished delegates, Nigeria commends the Director-General for the effective management of the  Organization in spite of the lean financial resources, and particularly for intensifying UNESCO’s relevance to Africa’s  development. However, we encourage a re-focusing of the Organization’s programmes and structures in Africa, in the  light of the Internal Oversight Service (IOS) evaluations and the whole concept of Global Priority Africa, which was  launched 25 years ago.
22.5 Going forward, Nigeria pledges to continue its support for the UNESCO Multisectoral Regional Office in West  Africa, in Abuja, where last year we were able to second six senior staff to assist with the work in the subregion. We  therefore call on other Member States to follow this example.
22.6 Mr President, Nigeria believes in the wisdom of taking a hard look at the governance of the Organization. We  applaud all the efforts that have been made so far and believe that these can only be beneficial to the Organization if  they are undertaken with care, with wisdom and with all-inclusive consultations.
22.7 In education, we commend UNESCO for its coordinating role in the development of the Education 2030  Framework for Action agenda. Education remains a priority for our Government, as we tackle issues of access and  quality as well as the challenge of out-of-school children. Nigeria has taken proactive measures, such as the “Safe  School Initiative”, to address the effect of insecurity on education delivery. We invite the participation of development  partners in our efforts to bring back education to north-eastern Nigeria which has been the worst hit by the scourge of the  Boko Haram insurgency.
22.8 Science, technology and innovation (STI) together constitute one of the main pillars of the agenda for change of  the new Nigerian administration. The second phase of the science component of the Nigeria/UNESCO special plan of  cooperation will be developed as a pilot programme for the attainment of science-related Sustainable Development  Goals (SDGs) and the implementation of the STI policy elaborated in cooperation with UNESCO. We are happy to report  that the International Centre for Biotechnology, a UNESCO category 2 centre, focusing on food security and tropical  diseases, has taken off with three programmes recommended by its international scientific advisory committee.
22.9 Mr President, the Government of Nigeria is committed to the letter and spirit of supporting inclusive social  development, fostering intercultural dialogue for the rapprochement of cultures and promoting ethical principles. We  strongly condemn the illegal destruction of cultural objects and shall continue our cooperation with UNESCO in the  implementation of the 2005 Convention on the Protection and Promotion of the Diversity of Cultural Expressions, through  the activities of the Institute for African Culture and International Understanding, whose designation as a UNESCO  category 2 institute was recently renewed.
22.10 Nigeria recognizes the importance of communication and information in the socio-economic development of its  citizens. In line with the Freedom of Information Act which guarantees the right of access to information and freedom of  the press, and the United Nations Plan of Action on the Safety of Journalists and the Issue of Impunity, we are happy to  report that we have responded to the Director-General’s request for a status report on the judicial enquiries conducted on  journalists killed in Nigeria from 2006 to 2013. Nigeria has taken steps in the prevention of attacks against journalists  through the establishment of a safe monitoring network.
22.11 Finally, Mr President, Nigeria wishes to thank the President of the 37th session of the General Conference and  the Chair of the Executive Board for their contributions to the attainment of UNESCO’s lofty goal of creating a better  world where peace will reign supreme! I thank you for your attention.
23. The President:   Thank you very much, Your Excellency, for the brevity of your intervention. Much appreciated. Our next speaker  is His Excellency Mr Asein Isaev, Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of Kyrgyzstan to Belgium and  Permanent Delegate to UNESCO. Your Excellency, you have the floor.
24.1 Mr Isaev (Kyrgyzstan):   Mr President of the General Conference, Mr Chair of the Executive Board, Madam Director-General, Your  Excellencies, ladies and gentlemen, kindly allow me to greet all the participants of the anniversary session of the General  Conference and to congratulate Mr Stanley Mutumbu Simataa upon his appointment and to wish him every success in  this high and important post. I would also like to express our gratitude to the President of the 37th session of the General  Conference, Mr Hao Ping, for his fruitful work.
24.2 It is with great delight that I congratulate Member States of UNESCO, and the Secretariat, presided over by  Ms Irina Bokova, on the 70th anniversary of the Organization. This session of the General Conference, we are sure, will  become a new point of reference for many countries regarding the progress of sustainable development, while we  Member States will work together through UNESCO programmes, aiming at reaching peace by means of education,  science, culture, information and communication.
24.3 Mr President, the end of the Second World War encouraged the implementation of such values as recognition of  freedom, equality of peoples, and the universality of international principles of law, which do not divide the world into  great powers and the rest of the world anymore. However, today there are unsolved questions related to, for example,  the inclusion of our children in the system of primary education. The world has not eradicated conflicts, which spring up  due to intolerance towards cultures and religions. The existence of an information gap still complicates the process of  integration of many countries into the global space of education.
24.4 We hope that UNESCO will continue to play a key role in development and implementation of a new global post-
2015 agenda, on all the levels of its mandate in order to reach the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). Today’s  challenges force us to be more proactive and to employ education, science and culture while working on development  issues.
24.5 Mr President, sustainable development of every State depends mainly on ensured security and stability, at local  as well as global levels. We believe that today, countries must put aside all differences and join forces to combat  terrorism and violent extremism more actively. The systematic destruction of the world’s cultural heritage has reached an  unprecedented level. Kyrgyzstan decidedly condemns all acts of terrorism and vandalism of cultural and historical  heritage, as has occurred in the Syrian Arab Republic, witnessed by all the international community. Terrorism has its  roots and causes, but it does not have any justifications.
24.6 We would like to stress that the international community needs efficient joint action not only against extremism  per se, but also against its violent effects. Today we see that the character of extremist threats is changing significantly.  These violent effects depend less and less on geographic distribution – now we are dealing with extremist ideology  infiltrating the minds of people in all regions of the world. Having consolidated their forces, based on common extremist  ideology, various terrorist organizations are becoming powerful criminal structures with a vast network of followers. In this  regard, we suggest that the phenomenon of extremism should be viewed not only on the level of the violent methods  used, but primarily in the framework of implementing preventive measures discouraging the spreading of destructive  ideological influence. Thus, we believe it necessary to aim State policy against extremist appearances in this sphere, and  towards efficient protection of the State’s civic character, to strengthen the interaction with traditional religions along with  the realization of citizens’ right to religious freedom.
24.7 In our country, we are paying special attention to the amelioration of the quality of education, educating adults,  and we strive to frame it in the spirit of global citizenship. In this regard, we support the importance of values, views and  skills that contribute to tackling the existing and newly appearing global challenges threating our planet. Today, based  upon its historical and cultural background, the Kyrgyz Republic continues to develop and strengthen the national model  of State governance based on the principles of parliamentary democracy.
24.8 On this occasion, we would like to express our deep appreciation to all UNESCO Member States who voted for  Kyrgyzstan on the anniversary of the United Nations General Assembly, electing Kyrgyzstan as a member of the Human  Rights Council for 2016-2017. This, surely, is proof of the high evaluation and recognition of positive changes by the  international community. These changes in our country indicate the building of an open, democratic and inclusive  society.
24.9 Mr President, in conclusion, I would like to turn back to the subject of the creation of UNESCO 70 years ago,  which has become the embodiment of the ideals of all humanity and the defender of the interests of all peoples of the  world. As was noted by the Director-General, Ms Irina Bokova, UNESCO was born of the principle of the stability of  peace and development. Thank you for your attention.
25. The President:   Thank you very much, Your Excellency. Our next speaker is His Excellency Mr Tedson Kalebe, Ambassador of  Malawi to Belgium. Your Excellency, you have the floor.
26.1 Mr Kalebe (Malawi):   Mr President of the General Conference, Mr Chair of the Executive Board, Director-General of UNESCO,  distinguished delegates, ladies and gentlemen. Mr President, allow me to add my delegation’s sincere congratulations on  your election to the Presidency of the 38th session of the General Conference of UNESCO. I am confident that we will  benefit from your intellect and wisdom. I also bring fraternal greetings from His Excellency Professor Arthur  Peter Mutharika, President of the Republic of Malawi.
26.2 Mr President, as we celebrate UNESCO’s 70th anniversary, the world is experiencing high levels of violence,  intolerance and civil strife. This is leading to unprecedented levels of cultural destruction. It is therefore important that  UNESCO play a major role in helping to bring lasting peace and offer solutions especially in its fields of competence,  within the United Nations system. Our sincere gratitude, therefore, goes to the Director-General for the role UNESCO is  playing in ensuring that heritages are preserved and protected. We also wish to commend Member States that continue  to financially support UNESCO in its endeavour to strengthen the implementation of the cultural conventions.
26.3 Mr President, Malawi has made a strong commitment to accommodate the Incheon Declaration, the Education
2030 Framework for Action and Sustainable Development Goal (SDG) 4 on education. This is reflected in Malawi’s  revised Education Act which embodies the tenets of access, equity and efficiency in priority areas stipulated under Major  Programme I. We look forward to continued support in reforming our technical and vocational education and training  (TVET) system through the Better Education for Africa’s Rise (BEAR) project and the training courses organized by  UNESCO institutes.
26.4 Mr President, we are pleased with the provision of cleaner energy and other priorities set out in the science  programme. We also find strategies outlined in the social and human sciences programme very pragmatic. We believe  the envisaged activities outlined in these two programmes will help us respond to climate change challenges and support  Malawi’s social and scientific transformation. We therefore wish to urge UNESCO to maintain the community radios  programme which will assist countries such as Malawi to disseminate information related to Sustainable Development  Goals (SDGs).
26.5 Mr President, allow me to commend the Director-General for her assurance to support the Participation  Programme. I also wish to register my delegation’s appreciation to the Korean National Commission for UNESCO’s  education for all (EFA) strategies. The two programmes have supported our National Commission by providing technical  as well as financial assistance. Malawi would therefore encourage UNESCO to sustain programmes that promote  information sharing and capacity building initiated under North-North, North-South and South-South cooperation.
26.6 Mr President, allow me to conclude by pledging Malawi’s continued support to the welfare of UNESCO and look  forward to our continued interaction in the matters of our mutual interest. Mr President, distinguished delegates, thank  you very much for your attention.
27. The President:   Thank you very much, Your Excellency, once again for the brevity of your intervention. Our next speaker is His  Excellency Mr Marco Tulio Chicas Sosa, Ambassador, Permanent Delegate of Guatemala to UNESCO. Your Excellency,  you have the floor.
(28.1) Mr Chicas Sosa (Guatemala) (translation from the Spanish):   Mr President of the General Conference, Mr Deputy Director-General, Mr Chair of the Executive Board, distinguished  delegates, the framework provided by the 70th anniversary of UNESCO evokes positivism and openness; we witness with  enthusiasm how tangible achievements have been woven throughout history, along with the challenges that we have yet to  overcome. The balance is undoubtedly positive. UNESCO is an international player that by its nature has promoted peace,  education, culture, science and freedom of expression. That is why I have no doubt that UNESCO will rise to the occasion when it  comes to the work required to help achieve the 2030 Agenda. Guatemala reaffirms its commitment to the Education 2030  Framework for Action and to the promotion of social and natural sciences, and continues to work to ensure the safety of journalists  and the protection and promotion of cultural expressions. Guatemala reiterates the efforts made to achieve gender equality and the  development of opportunities for youth. Also, I cannot fail to mention the irreparable loss of human lives, cultural expressions and  heritage, owing to the reprehensible intolerance of terrorist groups. We express our solidarity with the victims, as well as with those  who suffer or have suffered violations of human rights, and we hope for the prompt resolution of this serious and alarming problem.
(28.2) The recent destruction of sites considered to be the cultural heritage of humanity, and the pillaging of and trafficking in  cultural property are major problems requiring renewed efforts by UNESCO and its Member States; we still have great  opportunities to continue improving the fight against trafficking in cultural property. I invite the Director-General of UNESCO to  continue promoting spaces for dialogue in this area with various players, including the large auction houses. In Guatemala, we  have great appreciation and admiration for the peoples and governments of those countries in which the major art markets are  located. These peoples and governments have accompanied us and continue unconditionally to support democratic development  and institution-building, for which we are eternally grateful.
(28.3) There is a saying that “love does not remove knowledge”, and in some cases we find it difficult to understand the rate of  progress in the fight against trafficking in cultural property. We appeal to international solidarity and we speak to the conscience of  the peoples and governments to move ahead swiftly in ratifying the UNIDROIT Convention on Stolen or Illegally Exported Cultural  Objects and the Convention on the Means of Prohibiting and Preventing the Illicit Import, Export and Transfer of Ownership of  Cultural Property. I urge you to receive this as an appeal to your conscience made by a friend who is constantly suffering owing to  the profanation, plunder and trafficking of his country’s heritage. We do not believe that UNESCO is intended as a forum for  pointing fingers and making allegations, but a constructive place to foster dialogue and mutual understanding between different  cultures and civilizations. We are not against the countries in which the markets for art are located, nor against the big auction  houses that sell art, we simply wish to let them know that we are hurting, and that we see with regret, perplexity and impotence the  way in which some societies conceive and market the cultural heritage of the great civilizations of the past. I am not here to raise  legal challenges, but to share our vision and draw attention to the differences of views in the way that societies conceive the  cultural heritage of peoples. That which in some places is conceived as inalienable cultural heritage, in other places it is conceived  as a mere object of art that can be sold.
(28.4) What is wrong with hoping that our societies may evolve and cease to consider the commercialization of peoples’ heritage  as elegant and distinguished? What is wrong with that? It is true that we have considerable challenges ahead of us, but our  unshakeable resolve to overcome them is also considerable. And in this respect, the peoples and governments represented in  UNESCO are all sailing in the same boat. UNESCO has proven to be proactive in finding solutions to the challenges we face at the  global level, including global warming. We cannot fail to acknowledge the efforts of the Government of France for its exemplary  organization and leadership of the twenty-first Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate  Change (COP 21). I cannot end my speech without expressing our support for the work carried out by UNESCO in Guatemala,  within the framework of the productive visit made by Her Excellency Ms Irina Bokova, Director-General of UNESCO at the  beginning of the year, and the continued support of the UNESCO Office in my country. Finally, I express thanks to Azerbaijan for  supporting the development of Guatemala’s intangible heritage agenda. Thank you very much.
29. The President:   Thank you very much, Your Excellency. Our next speaker is His Excellency Mr Matthew Sudders, Ambassador,  Permanent Delegate of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland to UNESCO. Your Excellency, you  have the floor.
30.1 Mr Sudders (United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland):   Thank you, Mr President. Excellencies, Mr President of the Executive Board, fellow Ambassadors, dear  colleagues. First of all, congratulations Mr President on your election to the important post and thank you for the  leadership you have already shown, but more importantly thank you for the work I know you are going to do over the next  two years.
30.2 Happy birthday UNESCO. At 70 years old, many are ready to retire, but just lately I see UNESCO with a new  sense of purpose and a new lease of life. I see that for the first time since the financial crisis began, a new programme  will formally come into being at this General Conference, the new International Geoscience and Geoparks Programme  (IGGP). The United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland was proud to support the development of this  programme, and if it is adopted, we look forward to welcoming the first ever UNESCO global geoparks conference in the  United Kingdom next year.
30.3 We also look forward to UNESCO’s role in the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). In getting there, we saw  UNESCO’s intellectual leadership. Please keep it up. We know, too, that UNESCO will be needed to respond to new  challenges, never envisaged 70 years ago. Art, artefacts and monuments are how civilizations tell their stories. We  celebrate and recognize this in many UNESCO programmes such as world heritage, intangible heritage, and the Memory  of the World Programme. And while those programmes bring obligations and recognition, they are also designed for a  world with an international system of States, and rules, borders and justice. But today’s challenges come from people  who recognize no rules, norms, borders, authorities or justice. Their simple purpose is destruction and the prevention of  social cohesion. This is why the Government of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland last week  hosted a cultural protection summit. We are working to establish a cultural protection fund, and the Government has also  committed to ratify finally The Hague Convention. As a first step, we launched a £3 million Iraqi Emergency Heritage  Management Project to be implemented by the British Museum. We will continue to work developing our fund and will  work with others, including UNESCO, as we do so.
30.4 Of course preventing violent extremism is also a key challenge for us all today, and it encompasses many  different strands of our work. Education has a key role, for we know hatred is taught not born. But terrorists and  extremism are not our only challenge. Just this week, the launch of the World Trends in Freedom of Expression and  Media Development report highlighted the vital role a free media plays in a functioning democracy, and just how often  that is under threat. Our Communication and lnformation Sector plays a vital role in embedding the values which  underpin a constitutional commitment to the free flow of ideas.
30.5 Mr President, we could all speak for hours about the importance of UNESCO’s programmes, highlighting each  different one and its need. But I think we should also talk about the challenge for UNESCO to adapt to the future, to  make sure that it positions itself to deliver a clear and critical role within the wider United Nations system to achieve the  Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). Those goals have several key characteristics which we need to understand to  implement the best programme. Leaving no one behind is key. This means that we will need to know where the  marginalized are, the excluded and the left behind. How do we reach them? How do we give them the opportunities we  all want? This requires a data revolution, and adaptive policies.
30.6 When I talk about leaving no one behind, it is particularly important that we make small island developing States  (SIDS) a priority, in actions, policies and resources. While the Millennium Development Goals (MDGs) were vertical and  somewhat “siloed”, this new agenda has the potential to be much more integrated and horizontal. How will we make  integrated solutions the norm rather than the exception? Where the MDGs drove a largely North-South agenda, the post-
2015 development agenda is universal. In its work to make the United Nations system fit for purpose, the leadership of  the United Nations has identified several key challenges. A key one for UNESCO is to become more transparent and  accountable. That must specifically include accountability to beneficiaries and this is an area in which we still have much  to do. We did not undertake the required beneficiary survey before we developed the new C/5 document. We do not  evaluate routinely conferences or meetings. UNESCO staff are not able to benefit from client feedback as part of their  appraisal. This is a real shame because we have many staff who are highly appreciated by those they work with and it  would be nice to get this recognized.
30.7 Mr President, this has also brought challenges from within the institution. Five million dollars was spent on a staff  separation scheme which could otherwise have been spent on priority programmes. Elsewhere we need to see  consistent, coherent, transparent responses to the recommendations of the recent audits. This needs to see us properly  adhering to our rules on tendering and contracting, paying more attention to the field offices, improving human resources  management and improving transparency and tackling conflicts of interest.
30.8 Mr President, UNESCO’s reputation for accountability and transparency depends on getting this right. I cannot  close without putting on record formal thanks to someone who has been the heart and soul of the United Kingdom of  Great Britain and Northern Ireland delegation for more years than I am allowed to mention. I mean, of course, Hilary lzon.  Hilary, you have been the heart and soul of our delegation. You have been a dedicated member of staff and I salute your  service. I salute your service and everything you have done for your country and your delegation. I wish you every  happiness in your impending retirement. We are really going to miss you. Thank you.
31. The President:    Thank you very much Ambassador Sudders. Indeed for Hilary we shall all keep her in our thoughts. Our next  speaker is Her Excellency Ms Lorena Sol de Pool, Ambassador, Permanent Delegate of El Salvador to UNESCO. Your  Excellency you have the floor.
(32.1) Ms Sol de Pool (El Salvador) (translation from the Spanish):   Mr President of the General Conference, Mr Chair of the Executive Board, Mr Deputy Director-General, distinguished  delegates, I extend to you the greetings of the President of El Salvador, Professor Salvador Sánchez Cerén, on this occasion of  great historical importance, as we commemorate the 70th anniversary of the creation of UNESCO. Now more than ever, UNESCO  is relevant in this new phase of turmoil for the future of humanity. In a complex geopolitical environment, where the culture of peace  is threatened every day by armed conflicts, loss of lives, forced migration, terrorism and destruction of the culture of peoples, we  must close ranks as UNESCO, as the defenders and promoters of respect, justice and social inclusion, solidarity, tolerance and  intercultural dialogue. UNESCO must maintain its status as a moral force in the United Nations system, and as lead agency in  education. The challenges ahead are immense and we need a more participatory, more effective and more inclusive Organization;  UNESCO must therefore respect the geographical distribution of its staff, especially as regards unrepresented countries such as El  Salvador. Sustainable Development Goal (SDG) 4 on education raises challenges for our countries, in which we are engaged, but  UNESCO also faces great challenges, mainly to provide timely and realistic support to enable us to fulfil the historical responsibility  we have assumed. Therefore, El Salvador reaffirms that education is a fundamental human right and a public good that promotes  prosperity and the peaceful, inclusive, equitable and sustainable growth of our societies. SDG 4, on education, was developed at  UNESCO, and was the product of intensive four-year coordinated work among Member States, civil society, partner agencies and  the UNESCO Secretariat. With this Goal, UNESCO will remain highly relevant in the post-2015 development agenda, thanks to the  Director-General, who will be its main promoter.
(32.2) Technical education is an excellent tool for greater integration of qualified young people into productive life, which has  enabled a change in the approach to training, initiating this transformation with the creation and implementation in El Salvador of  programmes that encourage and support with scholarships young people who complete lower secondary schooling to continue  their studies to the level of technical baccalaureate, and those who complete a technical or general baccalaureate to continue their  studies at the level of technical higher education.
(32.3) In recent years, and increasingly frequently, each new item of knowledge becomes private property. This is often  assumed to be positive, as economic benefits justify privatization. This phenomenon has intensified and is one of the features  characterizing the so-called “knowledge societies”. We must therefore avoid the privatization of knowledge and promote it as a  freely accessible and shareable common good.
(32.4) The President of the Republic, Professor Salvador Sánchez Cerén, since the beginning of his term in office has promoted  the sustainable development of the integrated biosphere reserve in El Salvador, Honduras and Guatemala, which has been  categorized by UNESCO as a “model region”. That is why El Salvador considers the Programme on Man and the Biosphere (MAB)  to be of crucial importance, and is very concerned about its drastic budget cuts. We therefore urge the Director-General to  strengthen the MAB Programme. El Salvador, like the other countries of Central America, is highly vulnerable to climate change;  we therefore join the call of small island developing States, our friends and allies in the Caribbean, the South Pacific and the Indian  Ocean, to support UNESCO’s action to enable the implementation of educational activities for sustainable development and  adaptation to climate change, in order to mitigate the destructive effects that threaten the livelihoods of our peoples.
(32.5) Evidence shows the need to generate knowledge and build capacity for adaptation in the face of a phenomenon that  could significantly affect territories, ecosystems, economic activities and populations that are already vulnerable. We agree to the  reactivation of the frameworks and mechanisms that will contribute to social development through the exchange of experiences  under the Management of Social Transformations (MOST) Programme, and thereby reduce socio-economic inequalities. In  conclusion, we urge UNESCO to assume its leadership role within the 2030 Agenda and to allocate funds in a rational manner for  its successful implementation. Thank you very much.
33. The President:   Thank you very much Your Excellency. Our next speaker is His Excellency Mr Ali Amir, Ambassador,  Permanent Delegate of Comoros to UNESCO. Your Excellency you have the floor.
34.1 M. Amir (Comores)   Monsieur le Président de la Conférence générale, Monsieur le Président du Conseil exécutif, Madame la  Directrice générale de l’UNESCO, Mesdames et Messieurs les ministres, chefs de délégation, honorable assistance,  Mesdames et Messieurs, à la place de notre Ministre de l’éducation nationale retenu par des circonstances imprévues,  l’honneur m’échoit de vous féliciter, Monsieur le Président -votre Excellence M. Mutumba Simataa- de votre brillante  élection à la tête de la 38e session de la Conférence générale de notre Organisation. Notre gratitude va tout  naturellement à l’endroit de votre prédécesseur, S. E. M. Hao Ping. Nous adressons aussi nos vives et sincères  félicitations au Président du Conseil exécutif, S. E. M. Mohamed Sameh Amr. Et nous exprimons notre chaleureuse  gratitude à la Directrice générale, Mme Irina Bokova, qui n’a ménagé aucun effort pour défendre, de manière excellente,  les nobles missions de notre Organisation malgré la profonde crise financière que celle-ci traverse. Je vous renouvelle,  au nom du Président de l’Union des Comores, S. E. M. Ikililou Dhoinine, et au nom de mon pays, mes félicitations les  meilleures.
34.2 Mesdames et Messieurs, au lendemain de la seconde guerre mondiale, il y a 70 ans, les peuples se sont mis  d’accord pour construire l’UNESCO. Cet anniversaire mémorable est un moment solennel pour tous les pays membres.  Aujourd’hui, après sept décennies marquées par de nombreux défis et de multiples menaces, l’UNESCO reste  l’institution des Nations Unies par excellence. Elle revêt une importance capitale de par son leadership intellectuel, ses  valeurs et les concepts fondamentaux forgés depuis sa création, en 1945.
34.3 En effet, nous savons que l’impact de l’UNESCO reste capital pour garantir un esprit de paix, de solidarité et  d’humanisme international. Il nous faut maintenir le niveau d’excellence de notre Organisation intellectuelle  mondialement reconnue, qui doit continuer à préserver les valeurs intellectuelles auxquelles tous les pays aspirent, en  mettant l’accent sur l’éducation inclusive de qualité et la promotion de possibilités d’apprentissage tout au long de la vie  pour tous, moteur des programmes phares.
34.4 Enfin, nous nous félicitons de l’Agenda 2030, cadre universel susceptible de renforcer la coopération Sud-Sud  et Nord-Sud, mais nous pensons que, pour atteindre l’objectif 4 des Objectifs de développement durable (ODD),  l’UNESCO doit s’attacher beaucoup plus aux pays les plus démunis, où les enfants sont privés de fournitures de base et  où l’ordinateur reste un outil de luxe.
34.5 Mesdames et Messieurs, le 25 septembre dernier, à l’Organisation des Nations Unies, tous les pays se sont  positionnés pour suivre un nouveau cap, avec le Programme de développement durable à l’horizon 2030 qui intègre bien  les valeurs et les idées de l’UNESCO. À cet égard, nous nous réjouissons de voir que les pays du Sud et les petits États  insulaires en développement se trouvent au cœur des préoccupations de l΄UNESCO.
34.6 Par ailleurs, compte tenu des défis majeurs que pose le développement durable des petits États insulaires en  développement, l’Union des Comores prie la Directrice générale de bien vouloir poursuivre ses efforts visant à garantir à  ces pays une éducation de qualité et des possibilités d’apprentissage tout au long de la vie. Aussi, nous nous  réjouissons de l’accord de principe qui a été donné à mon pays en 2009 concernant le campus virtuel et la politique  nationale en matière scientifique, et nous émettons le souhait de voir, très rapidement, la mise en œuvre de ces deux  importants projets engagée.
34.7 Excellences, Mesdames et Messieurs, l’Union des Comores dispose d’un plan intérimaire pour l’éducation 2013-
2015 qui a récemment fait l’objet d’une évaluation sectorielle destinée à renforcer les capacités d’exécution et à accroître  le niveau des performances dans la mise en œuvre du processus de planification sectorielle. L’analyse des premiers  éléments montre que le plan sectoriel est une réelle tentative d’élaboration d’un processus de planification globale du  système éducatif comorien, ouvrant une dynamique de réformes en profondeur.
34.8 Dans le domaine de la culture, l’Union des Comores compte sur le soutien constant de l΄UNESCO pour  développer et pérenniser des initiatives en faveur de la sauvegarde du patrimoine culturel et naturel. Dans cet ordre
241  d’idées, nous formulons le souhait de voir en Afrique les bureaux hors Siège travailler efficacement en bonne  collaboration avec les délégations permanentes et les commissions nationales.
34.9 Honorable assistance, la tenue très prochainement à Paris de la COP 21 est l’occasion de placer en haut de  l’agenda la question des conséquences du changement climatique sur les petits États insulaires en développement, dont  fait partie mon pays qui est souvent frappé par des cyclones, des éruptions volcaniques, des tremblements de terre et de  graves intempéries qui nous fragilisent. Comme l’a souligné S. E. M. le Président de l’Union des Comores, le Docteur  Ikililou Dhoinine, à la 70e session de l’Assemblée générale des Nations Unies: « Nous ne pouvons pas imaginer  l’épanouissement de l’homme sur Terre sans agir d’urgence pour lutter contre le changement climatique et ses impacts  en préservant et en utilisant de manière durable les océans, les mers et les ressources marines pour le développement  durable ».
34.10 Mesdames et Messieurs, qu’il me soit permis de souligner que le temps presse et qu’il nous incombe d’assurer  la gestion durable de l’eau, la protection des océans, le développement des sciences et le renforcement des études  stratégiques sur les énergies renouvelables, afin de garantir un développement durable.
34.11 Monsieur le Président, je voudrais préciser que l’éducation, la science et la culture constituent le socle sur lequel  reposent la paix et le développement de l’humanité tout entière. L’accompagnement des Comores par l’UNESCO et par  les partenaires internationaux est donc essentiel.
34.12 Avant de clore mon intervention, il me plaît de rappeler que le Gouvernement de l΄Union des Comores souscrit  au cadre d’action adopté, le 4 novembre 2015, à l’UNESCO, et de mentionner les grandes thématiques auxquelles mon  pays encourage vivement la Directrice générale de s’atteler davantage, notamment la culture de la paix, la promotion de  la jeunesse et ses préoccupations, l’autonomisation des femmes, l’éducation à la citoyenneté mondiale, la liberté  d’expression, l’Histoire générale de l’Afrique et enfin, tout particulièrement, les problèmes qui touchent spécifiquement  les petits États insulaires en développement et les pays les moins avancés, dont les Comores font partie. Je vous  remercie.
35. The President:   Thank you very much Your Excellency. Our next speaker is His Excellency Mr Ivo Goldstein, Ambassador,  Permanent Delegate of Croatia to UNESCO. Your Excellency you now have the floor.
36.1 Mr Goldstein (Croatia):   Distinguished Mr President of the General Conference, Mr Chair of the Executive Board, Madam Director- General, distinguished delegates, ladies and gentlemen. Mr President, allow me to express my congratulations to you for  being elected as the President of the General Conference.
36.2 Being well aware of the important role UNESCO has to play, we would also like to express our support to  Ms Irina Bokova for all the reforms of UNESCO and a clear redefinition of the Organization’s priorities. The United  Nations and UNESCO are celebrating their 70th anniversaries, and Croatia would like to confirm its strong support and  commitment to these organizations, as well as to multilateralism in addressing the challenges we are all facing together.
36.3 In September this year, world leaders adopted the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development in the United  Nations – a plan of action to try to change the world we all live in, for the next 15 years. The 2030 Agenda follows goals  and achievements that were already set and some of them achieved in the Millennium Development Goals (MDGs), and  it shows new intentions and new paths in every part of UNESCO’s agenda: culture, education, human rights, science,  access to information, technology and innovation, to mention a few. The fundamental role of education, science, culture  and communications is one of the main conditions for the maintenance of peace, accomplishment of social cohesion and  sustainable development.
36.4 Croatia effectively promotes all of UNESCO’s programme areas, and in coordination with other governmental  and non-governmental organizations, supports UNESCO’s long-term initiatives and projects. The unique structure of  UNESCO creates a synergy between the public and private sectors, non-governmental organizations and civil society.
36.5 Dear colleagues, as a member of the World Heritage Committee, Croatia wishes first of all to contribute to the  preservation and protection of heritage inscribed on the World Heritage List, identifying new and extraordinary world  heritage, encouraging international cooperation, and promoting a balanced World Heritage List. Croatia recognizes  education and science as its priorities for development as a basis for long-term social stability, economic progress and  security and, by all means, cultural identity.
36.6 That is one of the reasons we are proud that our initiative for the proclamation of 5 November as the “World Day  of Romani Language” was endorsed by the Executive Board this October. We would like to express our sincere gratitude  to UNESCO and all the Member States for having supported this proposal, thereby enhancing intercultural dialogue and  the linguistic diversity of the world. Our gratitude goes especially to Hungary which co-signed the proposal, and Slovenia,  Saudi Arabia and Greece for signing the proposal.
36.7 We would also like to thank you once more on behalf of Croatia for providing funds for flood-affected areas in  Croatia last year, 2014, from the UNESCO Participation Programme and emergency assistance for the protection,  preservation and enhancement of the cultural heritage in Sisak-Moslavina County, and specifically the Milivoj Cvetnić  Town Library in Hrvatska Kostajnica which was severely damaged in the floods.
36.8 We are also very pleased that the project for education for schoolgirls to reduce poverty in the United Republic  of Tanzania and the project for the information literacy of graduates in Ethiopia run by the National and University Library
242  in Zagreb were chosen in the framework of UNESCO’s Participation Programme. We strongly believe that these  programmes have the perspective of long-term cooperation.
36.9 Let me conclude with one important subject for us – and that is regional cooperation. Croatia has been actively  cooperating with all countries in the region for years. In the forthcoming period, we are hoping to widen the scope of  regional as well as European and non-European cooperation, and to carry out new innovative projects in the field of  education, science and culture in order to support peace and development in all parts of the world, including our own.  Thank you very much.
37. The President:   Thank you very much Your Excellency. Our next speaker is His Excellency Mr Roberto Ramirez Aldana,  Ambassador, Permanent Delegate of Honduras to UNESCO. Your Excellency, you now have the floor.
38.1 Mr Ramirez Aldana (Honduras) (translation from the Spanish):   Mr President of the General Conference, Madam Director-General or her representative, Mr Chair of the Executive Board,  Excellencies, in pursuit of UNESCO’s highest goal of “peace”, I would like to refer to a biblical principle, which says that when there  is justice, there will be peace. In that regard, the Director-General emphasized in her opening address the need for UNESCO to  return to its origins; she spoke about returning to values, that is to say, the primary tasks entrusted to the Organization. We  acknowledge that we can still do more, because many tasks are yet to be resolved, owing in part to the mutations and interactions  of political, cultural and territorial conflicts that compel us as an organization to look back and review policies and works, without  changing the objectives. It is not just a question of what to do, this is clear, but how to achieve it.
(38.2) On the other hand, we must recognize that the dynamism of UNESCO corresponds to the action of Member States, that  we have enormous responsibilities to bequeath to our future generations a space that is more environmentally friendly, more  tolerant of diversity and more conscious in the creative search for solutions that are sustainable in the long term; to build a world  with greater equality, greater equity and in a framework of justice, that may produce this desired peace. Honduras, located in the  geostrategic centre and heart of the American hemisphere, has an exuberant natural wealth concentrating 6% of the planet’s  biodiversity, in hydrological sources, forests, jungles, beaches and beautiful coral reefs, which are the focal point of the debate on  development and conservation. The clamour for development of our peoples demand rational mechanisms for the sustainability of  resources within our reach, to seek better possibilities for preservation; this is how Honduras reaffirms its support and guarantees  credibility and efficiency in the work of UNESCO’s Natural Sciences Sector, in particular the Programme on Man and the Biosphere  (MAB), the International Hydrological Programme (IHP) and the Intergovernmental Oceanographic Commission (IOC). We are  building momentum in research on potential groundwater sites to ensure clear measures to preserve resources with innovative  capacities for sustainable development.
(38.3) Honduras is proud of and committed to its heritage sites, and the biosphere reserves of Río Plátano, Cacique Lempira  “Señor de las Montañas” and the transboundary Trifinio Fraternidad, which we share with Guatemala and El Salvador, and which is  not only an outstanding place for its natural beauty, but represents the Central American peace that we have built with great effort  around this mountain, constituting a symbol of fraternity and harmony between our peoples and a concrete act of the connection  that must exist between nature and peace. Our multi-ethnic and multi-cultural wealth also commits us to continue working to  strengthen UNESCO’s conventions relating to the protection and promotion of heritage and cultural diversity. We are pleased to  report that our county has begun exploration and research on archaeological remains discovered this year in the region of La  Mosquitia, where a mysterious and fascinating ancestral culture, unique to America, could have been located, called “Ciudad  Blanca”. Honduras will continue to promote the strengthening of the 1970 Convention, to optimize it as a normative instrument in  proposals for conflict resolution, in bilateral negotiations and in the implementation of legal and practical measures against  trafficking in cultural property. We thus welcome the adoption of its operational guidelines at the recent Meeting of States Parties,  following an effort that has been awaited for more than 40 years. This achievement must now materialize in the will of all States to  respect the history and dignity of the peoples who are victims of the trafficking of their cultural property, which has been covered  with a facade of “formalized commercialization” in an art market that often deliberately ignores the Convention.
(38.4) In the field of education, Honduras welcomes the adoption – in the context of this General Conference – of the Education
2030 Framework for Action, for equitable education that is accessible to all. We support public policies on education, including the  principles of universal access, quality, respect for diversity, gender equality, promotion of tolerance, peace and non-violence.  Regarding this last aspect, we consider that UNESCO should focus its programmes on the particularities of each country and  region, respecting diversity, even more so when part of Central America is afflicted by the phenomenon of gangs, which turns many  centres of education in to war zones. As to climate change, our Government has made it clear in various international forums that  Honduras is among the six countries of the world most affected by this phenomenon, and has called for any response that is  adopted in the construction of global agreements; this is done under the principles of shared and differentiated responsibility, that is  to say, those who have done the most to generate the crisis are those who must contribute the most to resolve it. Making efforts  along these lines gives Honduras hope; forging the way and adopting fair measures for nations will continue to be the responsibility  of UNESCO. Let us remember that justice is essential for the development of peace; otherwise, the effects of injustice will always  be violence, anguish and insecurity. Only with justice can we build the peace desired by our nations. Thank you very much.
39. The President:   Thank you very much Your Excellency. Our next speaker is His Excellency Professor Mohammed Sheya,  Deputy Permanent Delegate of the United Republic of Tanzania to UNESCO. Your Excellency, you now have the floor.
40.1 Mr Sheya (United Republic of Tanzania):   Thank you Mr President. I have the pleasure to read the statement on behalf of the Permanent Delegate of the  United Republic of Tanzania to UNESCO, Her Excellency Begum Karim Taj, Ambassador to UNESCO. President of the  General Conference, Mr Chair of the Executive Board, Madam Director-General of UNESCO, Excellencies, ladies and  gentlemen, please accept my heartfelt congratulations on your election as President of the 38th session of the General  Conference of UNESCO. I would like to assure you of my Government’s full support. I would also like to thank the  President of the 37th session of the General Conference, the Chair of the Executive Board and the Director-General of  UNESCO for their good leadership. As UNESCO celebrates its 70th anniversary, my Government continues to support  the Director-General in her efforts to ensure that UNESCO remains relevant, revitalized and resilient.
40.2 Mr President, this session of the General Conference is taking place at a time when the world is witnessing  unprecedented socio-economic disparities among peoples and nations, radicalization and violent extremism, exclusion  and the effects of climate disruption. The recent adoption by United Nations General Assembly of the 2030 Agenda for  Sustainable Development provides renewed hope for the next 15 years in which 17 Sustainable Development Goals  (SDGs) and 169 targets, several of them addressing the priority areas of UNESCO, will define the global development  framework. In particular SDG 4, “Ensure inclusive and equitable quality education and promote lifelong learning  opportunities for all”, which has been informed by the Muscat Agreement and the unfinished business of education for all  (EFA) and the education-related Millennium Development Goals (MDGs), defines the Education 2030 Framework for  Action.
40.3 My Government commends UNESCO’s participation in the elaboration of the post 2015 development agenda  and stands committed to the outcomes of the World Education Forum 2015, the Incheon Declaration and the Education
2030 Framework for Action. My Government follows with keen interest the ongoing processes of developing indicators  and appropriate global coordinating and financing mechanisms.
40.4 Mr President, education is the key to sustainable development and to the eradication of poverty. Every child  should have the opportunity to go to school and receive quality education that is relevant. Likewise, adult literacy and  lifelong learning should be given high priority. It is disheartening to note that as 2015 is coming to an end, a good number  of countries, particularly from sub-Saharan Africa, are far from reaching the EFA goals and the education related MDGs.  Quality education in particular has posed a major challenge due to the unsatisfactory learning environments, insufficient  and poor quality of teachers. Education 2030 should therefore address these shortfalls if meaningful advancement is to  be made to take up where EFA left off. My Government is committed to meeting these challenges by working together  with UNESCO and other development partners to promote UNESCO’s ideals, including education for sustainable  development, education for a culture of peace, citizenship education, adult literacy, and lifelong learning.
40.5 Mr President, embracing science and technology innovation (STI) is a prerequisite to leapfrog development. My  Government is grateful to UNESCO for the long cooperation it has had in these areas, particularly in marine and ocean  sciences and technologies, water, biodiversity, earth sciences and the review of the national science and technology  innovation system. My Government will continue to seek upstream policy advice in these and other areas, including  science-policy-society interface, youth policy and gender policy development.
40.6 Culture is a mover and driver of sustainable development. Tanzania is committed to conservation and has  ratified several UNESCO culture conventions and has been playing an active part in their implementation. A number of  our cultural and natural heritage properties have been inscribed on the World Heritage List. My Government is aware of  the development pressures facing some of these sites and consequently, various measures are being taken to address  them. It is also my Government’s conviction that a way has to be found to strike a balance between conservation and  sustainable development.
40.7 Mr President, freedom of expression and access to information and knowledge are fundamental human rights  and prerequisites to socio-economic development. However, disparities continue to exist between nations and among  individuals in these areas. UNESCO should strive to bridge the information and knowledge divide by strengthening the  Communication and Information Sector. Additionally, efforts should be made to find means to combat unethical use of  the Internet and rising cyberspace crime.
40.8 The United Republic of Tanzania is a living democracy committed to social inclusion and dialogue. Policies have  been put in place to engage youth, women and disadvantaged groups in decision-making processes. Just two weeks  ago, Tanzania conducted a peaceful general election and its people emerged united, thanks to its long-cherished  tradition of a culture of peace consolidated by one common language, Kiswahili. I thank you, Mr President.
41. The President:   Thank you very much Your Excellency. Our next speaker is Her Excellency, Ms Khadar Bashir Ali, Minister of  Education, Culture and Higher Education of Somalia. Your Excellency, you now have the floor.
42.1 Ms Bashir Ali (Somalia):   Mr President of the General Conference, Mr Chair of the Executive Board, Honourable Ministers, Ambassadors,  Permanent Delegations, distinguished guests, ladies and gentlemen. Good morning and salāmu ‘alaikum wa-rahmatu  llāhi wa-barakātuh (Peace and the mercy and blessings of God be upon you). I bring you greetings from Somalia and our  President, Mr Hassan Sheikh Mohamud, and our Prime Minister, Omar Abdirashid.
42.2 Mr President, let me give you a quick glance of the realities of Somalia. As you might know Somalia is a post- conflict fragile nation recovering from 22 years of conflict. We have now moved from a transitional government to a  federal system of government. In Somalia, we are committed to bring change to our nation, but we all know that change  does not come easily. Change brings tension and resistance to new ideas and systems. Just to give you a quick  example, this year for the first time we instituted centralized exams in Somalia and our ministry was bombed as a  resistance to the centralized exams. However, despite all the challenges we have, we have hope. Coming from the  abyss of violence, we cannot have anything but hope.
42.3 Somalia, in a way Mr President, is a success story. We are a country with great potential and great possibilities.  In the education sector our Government, led by our President and Prime Minister, is committed to provide access to  quality education for all Somali children in an equitable manner. Currently, Mr President, education in Somalia is a  privilege, it is not a right. Only children whose parents can afford to pay school fees go to school, and the numbers of  children that are out of school are staggering. According to a recent population estimate conducted by our Minister of  Planning, 70% of the population in Somalia is under the age of seven, 46% of those are between the ages of 1 and 14,  and 70% per cent of those children are out of school. Given these figures, reform for us is an urgent mandate. We cannot  afford to wait. We want to provide for our children and our people good quality accessible basic education, economic  livelihood, and opportunities for our youth, sustainable technical and vocational education that leads to livelihood and  opportunities. But most important of all, Mr President, we want to provide a counter narrative to respond to violent  extremism. Our youth have been radicalized and recruited to join destabilizing activities. We must find a solution. We are  also losing a great number of our youth in the seas. They are migrating and leaving our nation and looking for other  opportunities.
42.4 Girls’ education is a personal and professional priority of mine. As a woman, I am committed to increasing the  numbers of girls in schools. Transparency and accountability are also one of our priorities. In order to achieve this, we
245  must have a uniform curriculum that can produce productive citizens for our country. We must have qualified teachers,  safe schools and learning environments, effective teaching and learning materials that are socially and culturally  appropriate. We also need to restructure our cultural identity and heritage. As you might know, Mr President, with war  you lose everything and we have lost our culture, our language and our customs. We need to restore those and bring  them to the forefront of our agenda.
42.5 We need also to increase the production of quality data. We all know, Mr President, that peace and stability lead  to social and economic development and these are priorities for our Government. We are committed to peace and  stability despite all the odds. However, we cannot embark on this journey by ourselves without your help. We are grateful  to UNESCO and other donor agencies for the good work you are doing in support of our people. Education is an  important factor to eradicate poverty and radicalization and we must collectively respond to these needs. As an African  proverb says: “A journey of a thousand steps begins with the first one”. Let us take this first one together. Thank you very  much.
43. The President:   Thank you very much Your Excellency. Be assured that UNESCO will continue to provide your country and your  nationals with the required support. Our next speaker is His Excellency, Monseigneur Francesco Follo, Permanent  Observer of the Holy See to UNESCO. Your Excellency you have the floor, Sir.
44.1 Mgr Follo (Saint-Siège) :   Excellences, le Saint-Siège vous présente, Monsieur le Président de la Conférence générale, ses salutations et  ses félicitations. Bien sûr, il félicite et remercie l’ancien président Hao Ping pour l’excellent travail qu’il a accompli à tous  les niveaux. Madame Irina Bokova, Directrice générale, je vous exprime l’appréciation du Saint-Siège pour l’excellent  engagement qui garantit la réalisation du programme de l’UNESCO.
44.2 Le 70e anniversaire de l’UNESCO est une bonne occasion pour faire le point de notre histoire et réfléchir à notre  futur, en accueillant l’invitation du Saint-Père à un nouveau dialogue sur la façon dont nous construisons l’avenir de la  planète. Le Pape François nous invite à une éducation « écologique » qui doit tenir compte d’une éthique de la vie et du  dialogue. Dialogue qui implique une éducation à l’écoute.
44.3 En grec, « maison » se dit oikos et « gérant » se dit oikonomos. Lorsque le gérant sait qu’il gère une demeure  que d’autres habitent en même temps que lui et habiteront après lui, alors le respect des droits d’autrui doit primer pour  lui. Le gérant doit respecter la maison commune par respect pour ceux qui l’habitent et l’habiteront ; cette maison  commune doit être aimée et entretenue, mais nous ne lui devons pas la vénération, que nous ne devons qu’à autrui. Le  gérant doit être mû par la solidarité envers son prochain, y compris celui qui n’existe pas encore.
44.4 L’encyclique Laudato Si’ du Pape François reprend un propos du Pape émérite Benoît XVI qui invitait à  développer une « écologie de l’humain ». L’intelligence commande de respecter l’autre homme autant que la maison que  nous habitons ensemble dans la suite des temps : une écologie qui ignorerait les droits de l’homme à être un homme  aujourd’hui et demain ne saurait pas ce qu’est une maison. Le Pape François dit que l’intelligence commande  réciproquement que nous respections notre maison commune parce qu’en la respectant, nous prouverons notre amour  du prochain. Parmi tous les dangers qui nous menacent, se cache un projet qu’on pourrait appeler « abolition de  l’homme ». Nous avons les moyens intellectuels de refuser cela. Ce faisant, nous prouverons notre solidarité et notre  amour envers le prochain, quelles que soient les distances spatiales et chronologiques qui nous en séparent. Et comme  le verbe « aimer » est toujours lié au verbe « faire », le souci que nous aurons de notre maison commune se traduira en  une authentique œuvre de miséricorde et de justice. Merci de votre écoute.
45. The President:   Thank you very much, Your Excellency, once again for the brevity of your statement. Our next speaker is His  Excellency, Mr Christian Leffler, Deputy Secretary-General of the European Union. Your Excellency, you have the floor.
46.1 Mr Leffler (European Union):   Mr President of the General Conference, Mr Chair of the Executive Board, Mr Deputy Director-General,  distinguished colleagues. I have the honour to speak on behalf of the European Union and the candidate countries  Turkey, the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, Montenegro and Albania.
46.2 Mr President, Deputy Director-General, as the United Nations and UNESCO are celebrating their 70th  anniversaries this year, we would like to reiterate the European Union’s full support and commitment to this crucial  Organization. I would like to thank the Director-General for her determined leadership, which remains essential in the  light of the challenges ahead of us.
46.3 In September, we adopted in New York the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development, a common plan of  action to transform our world to a more sustainable footing for the next 15 years. It builds on our achievements in  implementing the Millennium Development Goals (MDGs), including those that have become a reality through the  support of UNESCO. The 2030 Agenda reinforces our intent to move our collective commitments forward on every front  of UNESCO’s mandate. The comprehensiveness of this new Agenda reflects the complexity and interlinkages of today’s  challenges. We all have the responsibility for its realization. The European Union is fully committed to play its part. We  will implement the Agenda at home and will continue to promote sustainable development worldwide in its economic,  social and environmental dimensions, with a particular focus on the countries most in need.
46.4 UNESCO has an important role to play in translating the goals into concrete action, while ensuring coherence  with the efforts throughout the United Nations system. We recall in this regard the request of the Executive Board to  pursue reform efforts in order to continue strengthening UNESCO’s competitive edge and organizational delivery
246  capacity to support Member States in delivering on the Agenda globally, regionally and nationally. The European Union,  whose current support to UNESCO amounts to nearly €70 million, remains committed to working closely with the  Organization in this effort.  (The speaker continues in French)
46.5 Monsieur le Président, Monsieur le Directeur général adjoint, l’Union européenne réaffirme sa profonde  préoccupation face à la multiplication des attaques délibérées contre le patrimoine culturel à travers le monde. Nous  soulignons à cet égard l’importance de la stratégie visant à renforcer la mission de l’UNESCO, ainsi que le respect des  autres décisions des Nations Unies. Nous notons également le besoin d’une coopération plus efficace entre l’UNESCO  et les autorités nationales pour remédier au manque de données de terrain fiables.
46.6 L’Union européenne s’engage à poursuivre sa collaboration étroite avec l’UNESCO et soutient les efforts que  celle-ci mène, en lien étroit avec l’ensemble de ses partenaires-clés, en vue de protéger le patrimoine culturel et la  diversité culturelle et de faire face aux menaces liées au terrorisme et à l’extrémisme violent. Conformément à la  résolution 2199 du Conseil de sécurité, l’Union européenne a engagé les mesures appropriées pour prévenir le  commerce illégal des biens culturels. Ce trafic illicite d’œuvres d’art contribue directement au financement de l’État  islamique et d’autres organisations terroristes.   (L’orateur poursuit en anglais)
46.7 Mr President, Mr Deputy Director-General, as a party to the Convention on the Protection and Promotion of the  Diversity of Cultural Expressions, which marks its 10th anniversary this year, the European Union underlines the  continued relevance of its founding principles such as respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms, including  artistic freedom, and the importance of their further implementation in the context of technological and digital change.
46.8 The European Union welcomes the Education 2030 Framework for Action to mobilize efforts to reach  Sustainable Development Goal (SDG) 4. We will continue to support education efforts globally, recognizing the crucial  role of education in achieving multiple goals across the 2030 Agenda, including the goal to promote peaceful and  inclusive societies. The European Union supports governments in over 40 countries worldwide to provide quality  education and learning opportunities for all. Since 2004, our contribution has helped 300,000 new female students to  enrol in secondary education. We underline education as a human right and its importance in combating violent  extremism and promoting development, peace and security and human rights. The European Union finances the  UNESCO Networks of Mediterranean Youth (NET-MED Youth) project in order to promote young people’s participation  in democracy. We equally support programmes to provide education for Syrian refugees in Jordan and to support the  education sector reform in Iraq.
46.9 Freedom of opinion and expression are the fundamental rights of every human being. The European Union will  continue to uphold these rights online and offline and to condemn all violations of these rights, including attacks against  journalists and bloggers both in the framework of multilateral organizations and its bilateral relations. The European  Union continues to support concrete actions in this regard, for example, through funding to the programme by Reporters  Without Borders to protect journalists and bloggers. We underline the importance of concerted action within the United  Nations, including of the United Nations Plan of Action on the Safety of Journalists and the Issue of Impunity, led by  UNESCO. We welcome the decision adopted by the Executive Board at its 196th session on the safety of journalists and  the issue of impunity and the United Nations Security Council resolution 2222 on the protection of journalists in conflict  situations. The upcoming UNESCO conference in February with the participation of news organizations will provide a  unique platform for dialogue on journalists’ safety.
46.10 We remain concerned about the situation in the Autonomous Republic of Crimea and the city of Sevastopol,  Ukraine, and look forward to the follow-up on the Executive Board’s request for continued collection of information as  well as for the establishment of a monitoring mechanism on the situation. Noting the steps taken to increase UNESCO’s  efficiency, we recall that its capacity to respond to the pressing challenges and to implement the 2030 Agenda depends  on its effective management, sufficient budgetary resources as well as increased mobilization of the transparent and  diverse extrabudgetary resources  (The speaker continues in French)
46.11 Enfin, Monsieur le Président, Monsieur le Directeur général adjoint, nous nous félicitons de la décision adoptée  par le Conseil exécutif, à la 197e session, sur la lutte contre le changement climatique/COP 21. Nous encourageons  l’UNESCO et ses États membres à se mobiliser sur les enjeux du changement climatique, notamment sur la recherche  de solutions, et à participer activement à la mise en œuvre des conclusions de la COP 21, puis de la COP 22, afin de  poursuivre la réalisation des objectifs de l’Agenda 2030. Je vous remercie pour votre attention.
(48.1) Mr Altwaijri (Islamic Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization – ISESCO) (translation from the Arabic):   In the name of God the Merciful, the Compassionate. Mr President of the 38th session of the General Conference of  UNESCO, Mr Deputy Director-General, ladies and gentlemen, peace and the mercy and blessings of God be upon you. I am  pleased to speak to you on behalf of the Islamic Education, Scientifc and Cultural Organization (ISESCO) and to wish the  General Conference every success in its work and to address congratulations to the President of the General Conference. The  fruitful relations between UNESCO and ISESCO are increasing in various fields of common endeavour, and we are  determined to further strengthen and develop them.
(48.2) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the world today is facing great and constantly worsening challenges, as well as  struggles and conflicts, which threaten international peace and security, and which violate the Charter of the United Nations  and international law. The grave violations committed in areas of armed conflict, which have resulted in great destruction of  habitat and cultural artefacts and monuments and systematic displacement of individuals, and the violence and ethnic and  religious cleansing affecting the Muslim minorities in Myanmar and the Central African Republic, all this constitutes a grave  challenge to the international community, and needs to be dealt with with the utmost firmness. Similarly, the tragic conditions  being endured by the blockaded Palestinian people under the Israeli occupation and the violations affecting the al-Aqṣà  Mosque and its storming by extremists under the protection of the Israeli authorities – all these constitute war crimes and  crimes against humanity, in violation both of international law and of UNESCO’s Constitution. Mr President, we in today’s  world need a courageous and determined stance from this international cultural forum in order to circumscribe these violations  and stand firm in the face of terrorism, which has begun to threaten irreplaceable archaeological and cultural monuments and  is continuing its attacks against cultural diversity and the human heritage.
(48.3) On behalf of ISESCO, I urge this General Conference to assume its historical, humanitarian and legal responsibility  for protection of the rights of persecuted peoples with regard to freedom, dignity, education, culture and science, in order to  preserve international peace and security all over the world, and to fulfil UNESCO’s eternal mission which is to construct the  defences of peace in the minds of men. These defences have collapsed and crumbled, as we see, in many regions of the  world. May this humanitarian cultural assembly rise up and assume its historical responsibility to stop these attacks. Thank  you. Peace and the mercy and blessings of God be upon you.
(50.1) Mr Muhareb (Arab League Educational, Cultural and Scientific Organization – ALECSO)   (translation from the Arabic):   In the name of God, the Merciful, the Compassionate, praise be to God, and prayer and peace be upon His Prophet.  Mr President of the General Conference, Mr Vice-President of the General Conference, Excellencies, ladies and gentlemen, it  is a source of great pleasure to find ourselves together on the 70th anniversary of the foundation of UNESCO and the United  Nations, and for me to take the floor on behalf of the Arab League Educational, Cultural and Scientific Organization (ALECSO)  to salute all the generations that have been involved in the management of UNESCO in order to spread its message of  consolidating peace and security and achieving development worldwide through education, culture and science.
(50.2) Ladies and gentlemen, it is fair to say that the goals of education, culture, science, communication and development  which we urge for a life of dignity for all may be realized fully only by means of true multilateral partnership. However, I think  that it is equally fair to ask about the limits of the meaning of such partnership in a world in which there is killing, displacement,  occupation, and terrorism for millions of children, women and men, and cities and villages are destroyed and houses and  schools are razed on top of their occupants, in a world in which the monuments and relics of history and civilization – priceless  human treasures – are blown up. Millions in Palestine have been suffering for decades from the oppression of the Israeli  occupation and its vicious crimes, its blatant violation of their holy places, their dignity, their rights, in flagrant disregard of all  international and United Nations resolutions, conventions and instruments. UNESCO must continue to stand up for what is  right and remain committed to its message, and not hesitate for a moment to condemn the occupation. It must work to give  effect to its own resolutions on the occupied Palestinian territories and protection and maintenance of the historical  monuments, given that they are part of the human heritage and of human memory.
(50.3) In recent years, we have been burnt by extremism and terrorism which have brought to our Arab region killing,  sabotage, the destruction of schools and universities, houses of worship, factories, and archaeological sites, and have left, and  continue to leave in their wake millions of victims – killed, wounded, refugees – children, women, young people, men. Duty  calls us today to resist this strange phenomenon and protect our Arab and Islamic culture and Islamic values, and oppose it by  all possible means. I believe that thought, dialogue, exchange, culture, and good and equitable education for all must be the  chief means of standing up to extremism, violence and terrorism, provided that the necessary human resources are provided  such that they may be useful and sustainable.
(50.4) Ladies and gentlemen, what is the way to the future, a future of individuals and peoples, a future of humankind in  which there is neither fear nor sadness? How may we change the world for the better? What path may enable us to draw aside  the night and break the shackles? I believe, like many people, that we need collective behaviour which is guided by deep  human thought, sincere will, and policies based on universal principles and values, policies which oppose oppression of all  types, from whatever source, and which reject racism and refuse the insistence of some advanced countries on implementing  specific political agendas under which all must live in accordance with a new order. Thank you very much for your attention.  Peace and the mercy and blessings of God be upon you.
(52.1) Mr Al Karni (Arab Bureau of Education for the Gulf States – ABEGS) (translation from the Arabic):   In the name of God, the Merciful, the Compassionate. Mr President of the General Conference, Mr Chair of the  Executive Board, Madam Director-General of UNESCO, Excellencies, ladies and gentlemen, peace and the mercy and  blessings of God be upon you. We are meeting today around a table full of useful contributions, but it is also full of challenges.  How pleased are the Member States of the Arab Bureau of Education for the Gulf States (ABEGS) that ABEGS is participating  and that their efforts are complementary to those of the entire world for a more cooperative, scientific world which radiates  civilization and security. To that end, our Member States have given priority to development, to which they have allocated  generous budgets, being confident in their wise leadership, and certain that sustainable investment is achievable only through  individuals, not under any other heading of limited contribution and survival.
(52.2) The ABEGS Member States have taken broad steps with regard to education for all (EFA) measures. The EFA  Global Monitoring Report 2015 demonstrated that our countries have fulfilled most of the goals. The new strategic plans focus  on the criterion of quality, which is concerned with the level and enhancement of education outputs. In the recent period,  ABEGS has intensified its efforts to contribute, together with education ministries in the Member States, to the enhancement of  education. In this connection, cooperative relations with UNESCO have been strengthened, as well as with its regional  bureaux in Beirut and Doha for the strengthening of monitoring and follow-up on EFA, and preparation of regional activities  prior to the World Education Forum 2015. Here I should like to stress that ABEGS, in accordance with its action strategy for  the coming five years, will work with UNESCO to build the capacities of work teams for the monitoring and evaluation  programmes of education programmes through the year 2030, both with the main centre and with specialized centres, such as  the UNESCO Institute for Statistics (UIS), the UNESCO International Bureau of Education (IBE) and various regional bureaux.  We are confident that UNESCO has acquired great expertise by means of monitoring and follow-up programmes on EFA.  However, we would like the education statistics for 2030 to be clearer and more measurable so as to reflect the status of  education and the level of quality on both the horizontal and vertical axes of education.
(52.3) We are convinced that the twin challenges of terrorism and extremism must not be absent from our minds as we plan  for the work of the future. ABEGS has therefore endeavoured, together with its Member States, to devise specific  programmes, such as media culture, family education and programmes of activities aimed at youth. ABEGS is proud that its  strategic relationship with UNESCO has secured numerous achievements, as will be shown by the interim review of  programmes under the memorandum of understanding. We are also proud that ABEGS has opened up lines of  communication with non-traditional partners, such as the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD)  and civil society and private sector organizations. Thank you. Peace and the mercy and blessings of God be upon you.
53. The President:   Thank you very much, Your Excellency. Our next speaker is His Excellency, Mr Slimane Chikh, Permanent  Observer of the Organization of Islamic Cooperation (OIC) to the United Nations Office. Your Excellency, you have the  floor.
54.1 M. Chikh (Organisation de la coopération islamique - OCI) :    Monsieur le Président de la Conférence générale, Madame la Directrice générale de l’UNESCO, Monsieur le  Président du Conseil exécutif, Mesdames et Messieurs, j’ai l’honneur de délivrer le message du Secrétaire général de  l’OCI, S. E. M. Iyad Ameen Madani, mais compte tenu du temps imparti, je me permets de résumer ce discours qui sera  par ailleurs distribué in extenso.
54.2 Le respect mutuel et la tolérance sont les piliers fondamentaux qui nous permettent d’apprécier la diversité  culturelle et de mieux comprendre le phénomène de la fécondation croisée des civilisations. Ce principe doit être  inculqué aux nouvelles générations au moyen de l’éducation. C’est pourquoi nous tenons à saluer le travail remarquable  et les efforts inlassables de l’UNESCO pour la promotion de l’éducation aux droits de l’homme à travers le monde, et  pour le développement de nouvelles formes d’éducation à la citoyenneté mondiale. L’OCI partage entièrement cette  vision et elle agit en conséquence.
54.3 Mesdames et Messieurs, la lutte contre le phénomène du terrorisme et de l’extrémisme religieux figure parmi les  priorités de l’OCI qui estime que la stratégie la plus efficace pour lutter contre l’extrémisme violent consiste à traiter les  causes profondes du phénomène. Elle réaffirme, comme l’énoncent tous les traités pertinents et toutes les résolutions  internationales, que le terrorisme n’a ni religion ni nationalité ni race, et que nous avons affaire à un fléau qui doit être  combattu et réprimé partout où il frappe. Aussi, l’OCI rejette toute tentative visant à entretenir l’amalgame entre le  terrorisme et l’islam.
54.4 Mesdames et Messieurs, le monde a récemment assisté à une recrudescence des actes de destruction  intentionnelle et du trafic illicite du patrimoine culturel, notamment dans le but de financer les activités des groupes  terroristes. L’OCI condamne fermement ces crimes perpétrés au nom de certaines idéologies destructrices et se tient  prête à coopérer avec l’UNESCO pour la sauvegarde du patrimoine culturel. À cet égard, l’OCI tient à souligner  l’importance cruciale de la Déclaration de Milan sur la protection du patrimoine culturel ainsi que le travail remarquable  de l’UNESCO en la matière.
54.5 Mesdames et Messieurs, permettez-moi de saisir cette occasion pour parler de deux autres dossiers qui me  paraissent importants. En premier lieu, l’OCI souhaite réitérer ici son soutien sans faille au peuple palestinien dans la  situation tragique où il se trouve aujourd’hui. Nous condamnons fermement le processus systématique d’altération des  caractéristiques distinctives de la ville sainte de Jérusalem-Est occupée et les fouilles menées en contrebas de la Sainte  mosquée d’Al-Aqsa. L’UNESCO a la responsabilité de protéger et préserver le patrimoine culturel de Jérusalem-Est, et
250  nous réitérons notre appel vibrant pour que soit appliquée la décision d’envoi d’une mission de suivi réactive de  l’UNESCO dans la vieille ville de Jérusalem. En second lieu, l’OCI se félicite du vote du Conseil exécutif en faveur de la  candidature du Kosovo à la pleine adhésion à l’UNESCO, et espère que la Conférence générale suivra la  recommandation du Conseil exécutif.
54.6 Mesdames et Messieurs, je voudrais conclure en réaffirmant le souci constant qu’a l’OCI de renforcer encore sa  coopération avec l’UNESCO. La prise en charge de la question liée à la promotion du dialogue interculturel doit nous  engager à œuvrer ensemble. Je vous remercie.
55. The President:   Thank you very much Your Excellency. Our next speaker is Her Excellency Ms Maria Theresa Lazaro,  Chairperson of the Group of 77 and China. Your Excellency, you have the floor.
56.1 Ms Lazaro (Chairperson of the Group of 77 and China):   Mr President, Excellencies, this statement is based on the Group of 77 and China’s declaration on the 70th  anniversary of UNESCO, “Building Peace and Promoting Sustainable Development for a Better World”, which was  adopted on 30 October 2015 and distributed to all Permanent Delegations.
56.2 The Group of 77 and China affirm that UNESCO plays an indispensable role in creating the conditions for lasting  peace in the hearts and minds of women and men, without which there can be no sustainable development. In the wake  of pressing global challenges, UNESCO’s purpose to promote mutual understanding, dialogue among cultures, a culture  of peace, and international cooperation in the fields of education, the natural and social sciences, culture, and  communication and information, remains as important as ever.
56.3 To fulfil its crucial role, UNESCO must proactively contribute to the implementation of the 2030 Agenda for  Sustainable Development, to help eradicate poverty, malnutrition, climate change, violence, and conflicts. We envision a  UNESCO that is empowered to affect positive change on the ground and make a lasting difference in the lives of the  most vulnerable and those in most need, especially in least developed countries (LDCs) and small island developing  States (SIDS).
56.4 The Organization must respond to the needs of Member States through capacity building, technical assistance,  technology transfer, development cooperation, and policy advice across all five programme sectors and the global  priorities of Africa and gender equality. We are committed to the Education 2030 Framework for Action agenda and  UNESCO’s role in its implementation. Quality and inclusive education is a human right and a pathway to ensuring peace  and sustainable development.
56.5 We look forward to a successful twenty-first Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Framework  Convention on Climate Change (COP 21). We appeal to UNESCO to increase its cooperation and assistance to Member  States most vulnerable to climate change and natural disasters through relevant bodies and programmes, especially in  the natural and social sciences.
56.6 We reaffirm that culture is an enabler and driver of sustainable development. We reiterate the importance of  UNESCO’s cultural conventions and their full implementation through achieving a representative, balanced and credible  World Heritage List, safeguarding the intangible and underwater cultural heritage and promoting the diversity of cultural  expressions. We strongly condemn the deliberate destruction of cultural heritage, including religious sites, by terrorist  organizations in Iraq, the Syrian Arab Republic, Yemen, Mali, Libya, and Tunisia, as well as the trafficking and sale of  cultural property. We urge that protection of cultural heritage, especially in the event of armed conflict, be enhanced, and  commend the Bonn Declaration and UNESCO’s “#Unite4Heritage” campaign and strategy.
56.7 Relevant UNESCO programmes should further address the digital divide and harness information and  communications technology. We call on UNESCO to redouble its efforts in favour of the youth to empower them to be  productive global citizens and to reinforce social inclusion, peace, intercultural dialogue, and mutual understanding. In  conclusion, the G-77 shall continue to extend support to UNESCO. Thank you very much.
57. The President:   Thank you very much, Your Excellency. Our next speaker is Ms Martine Levy, President of the NGO-UNESCO  Liaison Committee.
58.1 Mme Lévy (Comité de liaison ONG-UNESCO) :    Merci, Monsieur le Président. Monsieur le Président de la Conférence générale, Excellences, Mesdames et  Messieurs, lors de la séance d’ouverture de cette 38e session de la Conférence générale, M. Hao Ping s’est félicité de  voir que les États membres et le Secrétariat avaient permis de réaliser ensemble les réformes nécessaires depuis 2013.  Et, en ma qualité de Présidente de la Conférence internationale des ONG partenaires de l’UNESCO, je me suis posé  cette question : « Quelle a été la contribution des ONG dans ces réformes ? ». La réponse est venue par la voix du  Président du Conseil exécutif, S. E. M. Amr, qui a loué avec force et conviction la coopération avec les ONG : « Leur  action est la preuve que nous pouvons coopérer pour la paix », a-t-il ajouté.
58.2 Les ONG, vous le savez, travaillent sur le terrain ; leurs militants sont au plus près des populations ; et le  constat est que, malgré tous les efforts prodigués par les uns ou par les autres, la situation est très préoccupante. Il nous  reste encore beaucoup à faire mais nous ne baisserons pas les bras malgré les difficultés de tous ordres qui se dressent  devant nous. Avez-vous déjà vu un militant d’une ONG ne pas vouloir aller au bout de son engagement ?
58.3 La Directrice générale, dans son discours d’ouverture de cette Conférence, a dit : « Je vous fais cette demande  solennelle : faites avancer l’éducation de chaque enfant, particulièrement des filles ». Le Comité de liaison réfléchit à la
251  célébration, le 11 octobre 2016, de la Journée internationale de la fille, promulguée par l’Organisation des Nations Unies  afin de lutter pour le droit à l’éducation des filles, qui est un enjeu majeur. Comment accéder à la paix lorsque la  pauvreté règne dans une famille, une pauvreté qui atteint surtout les femmes ? Est-ce le combat des femmes elles- mêmes qui ferait diminuer la pauvreté ? Le Comité de liaison a permis à 300 personnes venant de toutes les régions  représentées à l’UNESCO de se réunir au Siège, en juin 2015, pour réfléchir au rôle des femmes dans la lutte contre la  pauvreté. Le constat est amer. La condition de la femme n’a pas progressé, voire a régressé, depuis la Conférence  mondiale sur les femmes de Beijing, en 1995. Cette situation dramatique est inadmissible au XXIe siècle et nous  continuerons à travailler tous ensemble pour la faire évoluer.
58.4 Excellences, Mesdames et Messieurs, l’une des causes de la pauvreté est le manque d’eau potable. Je tiens à  remercier tout particulièrement ici le Gouvernement de la Côte d’Ivoire qui a accepté d’être le premier pays à organiser  un forum hors Siège sur l’accès à l’eau pour tous. Ce forum a eu lieu à Yamoussoukro l’année dernière. Cette année, en
2015, nous avons rassemblé environ 200 personnes en Chine pour un forum sur le « Rapprochement des cultures : une  seule humanité au-delà des diversités », et je tiens à remercier le Gouvernement chinois pour l’organisation de cette  manifestation. Un autre forum, sur le rôle de la jeunesse dans la sauvegarde du patrimoine culturel matériel et immatériel,  a rassemblé 150 personnes en Bulgarie, dont je remercie le Gouvernement. Je vous remercie pour votre attention.
59. The President:   Thank you very much Madam. Our next speaker is Mr Patrick Gallaud, Representative of the Association  francophone d’amitié et de liaison.
60.1 M. Gallaud (Association francophone d’amitié et de liaison – AFAL) :   Monsieur le Président de la Conférence générale, Excellences, Mesdames, Messieurs, chers amis de la société  civile, l’Association francophone d’amitié et de liaison (AFAL) est heureuse de s’adresser aux délégués de la 38e session  de la Conférence générale de l’UNESCO en vue de leur présenter brièvement quelques réflexions sur le projet de  programme et de budget de l’UNESCO pour les deux années à venir.
60.2 L’AFAL est une ONG partenaire de l’UNESCO depuis 1991 et est également en consultation permanente avec  l’Organisation internationale de la francophonie, le Conseil de l’Europe et l’ONU. Avec l’UNESCO, il s’agit d’une  coopération étroite, notamment depuis 2012, où l’AFAL a présenté et soutenu avec succès un candidat à la présidence  de la Conférence internationale des ONG et du Comité de liaison ONG-UNESCO. En effet, au moment où l’UNESCO  entreprenait une importante réforme de fond concernant les ONG, l’AFAL avait tenu à accompagner cette mutation qui, à  la lecture du rapport quadriennal présenté par la Directrice générale, a déjà porté ses fruits.
60.3 L’AFAL réunit, sur les cinq continents, des centaines d’associations ayant en commun l’usage de la langue  française. Il ne s’agit en aucun cas d’une ONG corporatiste mais d’une organisation qui souhaite protéger et étendre  l’usage de la langue française porteuse, comme toute autre langue, de valeurs universelles. J’en veux pour preuve la  réussite récente de l’exposition intitulée « La francophonie s’affiche », regroupant près de 100 des plus belles affiches  illustrant des manifestations du monde francophone depuis une quarantaine d’années. Il s’agit d’un voyage à travers  l’espace et le temps évoquant une multitude de forums, rencontres, festivals de films, mettant en évidence le rôle  déterminant de la francophonie dans la diversité culturelle, la dynamique associative, la promotion de la langue française.
60.4 Il est clair que les objectifs de l’AFAL rejoignent très largement ceux de l’UNESCO : on vient de le voir pour la  diversité culturelle, mais d’autres exemples pourraient être pris dans la culture de la paix et de la non-violence, la  promotion des droits de l’homme, la coalition des villes contre le racisme, le réseau des villes créatives, le  rapprochement des cultures. L’AFAL est particulièrement attentive à la priorité globale Afrique : en effet, on estime à
350 millions le nombre de jeunes Africains qui parleront français dans les années à venir ; on sait bien, par ailleurs, que  l’Afrique sera essentielle à l’économie mondiale avec de forts taux de croissance. Le cœur de la francophonie sera donc  en Afrique. Aussi l’AFAL soutient-elle sans réserve le projet de programme de l’UNESCO 2016-2017 relatif à la  coordination et au suivi de l’action en faveur de l’Afrique.
60.5 Monsieur le Président, Mesdames, Messieurs, notre organisation francophone apparaît donc bien comme  porteuse d’idéaux universels, notamment à travers l’usage de la langue française. Elle engage un combat quotidien, non  seulement pour la préservation de la langue française mais pour la préservation de toutes les langues du monde. C’est  ce que rappelait récemment son président, Jacques Godfrain, quand il disait : « Les langues sont aussi patrimoniales  que les pierres sculptées, les œuvres musicales, les dessins et peintures », et c’est pour cela que nous continuerons à  travailler auprès de l’UNESCO. Merci pour votre attention.
61. The President:   Thank you very much. Our next speaker is Mr Dhirendra Bhatnagar, Representative of the World Federation of  UNESCO Clubs, Centres and Associations.
62.1 Mr Bhatnagar (World Federation of UNESCO Clubs, Centres and Associations – WFUCA):   Honourable President of the General Conference, Honourable Director-General, Mr Chair of the Executive  Board, distinguished delegates, friends and colleagues of the UNESCO Clubs movement, ladies and gentlemen. It is  great pleasure for me to represent the World Federation of UNESCO Clubs, Centres and Associations (WFUCA) as its  President at the 38th session of the General Conference of UNESCO. The UNESCO Club movement, which was started  first in Japan in 1947, almost immediately after the formation of UNESCO, to disseminate the ideals of UNESCO among  the people, has now spread to about 100 countries in all continents of the world. Today, there are more than 5,000  UNESCO Clubs and Associations engaged in popularizing the programmes and activities of UNESCO among the people  in their respective countries. Started as a small initiative by an individual, it has grown into a strong worldwide movement.
62.2 WFUCA, established in 1981 with the objective of furthering the ideals of UNESCO, is making sincere efforts to  reach people at the grass-roots level, through its member UNESCO Clubs and Associations. WFUCA is an association  of national federations of UNESCO Clubs, Centres and Associations, admitted as members on recommendation of the  National Commission for UNESCO of their respective countries. WFUCA develops programmes based on UNESCO’s  priority themes such as education for sustainable development, culture of peace, and rapprochement of cultures, and so  forth, as well as other areas which are in conformity with the mandate of UNESCO. WFUCA enjoys the status of a non- governmental organization (NGO) in official partnership with UNESCO.
62.3 On the global screen, a very complex and contradictory world scenario is displayed. On one hand, there is  tremendous progress in science and technology, be it the medical or computer sciences, space technology,  communication and transportation, to name but a few. On the other hand, conflicts, terrorism, intolerance, discrimination,  disparities, inflation, population explosion, climate change, escalation of natural calamities triggered by the human  behaviour and over-exploitation of natural resources have posed unprecedented challenges before humanity, forcing  urgent attention of the world community. Never before has the need been felt so desperately to sensitize people about  the problems and challenges to save this planet. Adoption of the 17 Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) is the clear  manifestation of the concerns of the world community.
62.4 The overwhelming and comprehensive goals set up by the world leaders cannot be achieved without spreading  awareness and urging active involvement of people of all ages, including the young. Renewed efforts should be made to  revamp the dormant national federations of UNESCO Clubs and Associations. Cooperation and support of the National  Commissions should be sought to open UNESCO Clubs and Associations in the countries where the movement does not  exist to make it truly a people’s movement for peace and tolerance. Greater emphasis should be given on opening the  UNESCO Clubs in schools and colleges to involve a maximum number of young people to harness their energy and  potential to develop the world to a better living place for peaceful coexistence. Thank you very much.
63. The President:   Thank you very much. Our next speaker is Mr Amadou Kane Beyé, of the International Council for Philosophy  and Humanistic Studies. You have the floor, Sir.
64.1 M. Beyé (Conseil international de la philosophie et des sciences humaines) :    Monsieur le Président, chère Madame la Directrice générale de l’UNESCO, Mesdames et Messieurs,  permettez-nous, au nom du Secrétaire général du Conseil international de la philosophie et des sciences humaines  (CIPSH), Luiz Oosterbeek, de vous féliciter, Monsieur le Président, ainsi que l’ensemble des membres du bureau, pour  votre élection. Je vais essayer de résumer, compte tenu du temps qui nous est imparti.
64.2 Le Conseil international de la philosophie et des sciences humaines (CIPSH), créé à la demande de l’UNESCO  le 18 janvier 1949, s’adresse à cette assemblée générale dans un contexte global d’inquiétudes, d’angoisses et de  ruptures qui doivent nous porter à une réflexion sur le rôle et les responsabilités de chaque institution ou discipline pour  faire face à ces difficultés.
64.3 C’est dans ce sens qu’en octobre 2009 déjà, le Président du CIPSH d’alors avait proposé, à cette même  assemblée générale, l’organisation d’une conférence mondiale des humanités qui puisse organiser le secteur des  sciences humaines dans le cadre du nouveau millénaire. Une idée puissante, que l’UNESCO a accueillie et qui sera  concrétisée du 6 au 12 août 2017 dans la ville de Liège, en Belgique, en partenariat avec le consortium « Liège  Together ».
64.4 Il s’agit de s’adapter aux nouveaux défis et de chercher la convergence de nouvelles épistémologies avec la  diversité des réponses culturelles aux changements globaux, pour une action ancrée sur une vision qui dépasse le court  terme. Une action ancrée sur la créativité qui nous permet de construire des réponses nouvelles pour des difficultés  nouvelles. Mais aussi une action ancrée sur la ferme croyance que la pensée et la connaissance restent le cœur de la  capacité des humains à se réinventer à chaque fois. Une action, finalement, qui rejette toute forme de pensée unique car  notre force majeure, c’est la diversité de notre espèce, qui commence par le genre et l’âge et se prolonge dans le  kaléidoscope des langues, des mœurs, voire des valeurs, qui forme les cultures. En quoi consiste cette diversité à  travers le temps et les espaces, et comment faire pour la valoriser et la renforcer dans un cadre de convergence qui  porte à une humanité dynamique et en paix ?
64.5 L’UNESCO a identifié les principaux défis d’une « planète en transition » : l’augmentation de la population, la  recomposition des territoires, les flux migratoires, les contraintes énergétiques et environnementales, l’uniformisation  culturelle dans un contexte de mondialisation et, inversement, la structuration de nouvelles identités, l’avènement de la  société numérique.   (L’orateur s’interrompt suite à un problème de santé)
65. The President:   Thank you very much Excellencies, ladies and gentlemen. We can proceed with our meeting and the good news  is that Mr Amadou is well and is doing fine. The next speaker is Ms Christine Roche, President of the International  Catholic Centre for Cooperation with UNESCO. Madam, you have the floor.
66.1 Mme Roche (Centre catholique international de coopération avec l’UNESCO – CCIC) :    Merci, Monsieur le Président. Monsieur le Président, Excellences, Mesdames et Messieurs, « L’éducation est un  cri d’amour pour l’enfance, pour la jeunesse que nous devons accueillir dans nos sociétés, (…) dans la famille, dans la  communauté de base, dans la nation ». Je cite le rapport Delors (UNESCO, 1996) « L’éducation : un trésor est caché  dedans ».
66.2 L’éducation est mission de cœur et de raison pour l’UNESCO. Pour preuve, l’adoption par acclamation du Cadre  d’action Éducation 2030, dont l’UNESCO est le chef de file et coordinatrice de l’agenda. Le Centre catholique  international de coopération avec l’UNESCO remercie et soutient les acteurs de cette grande Maison qui s’engagent,  depuis 70 ans, pour que l’éducation soit de fait un bien commun mondial.
66.3 L’éducation est un défi quotidien pour les citoyens, pour les parents responsables et exigeants, conscients du  devenir de la société. L’éducation se fait « tout au long de la vie » dès la petite enfance. Elle construit la personne et  forme l’individu au vivre ensemble. Débutant au sein de la famille, elle se poursuit avec le concours de l’école, de  l’environnement social puis professionnel.
66.4 La responsabilité de l’éducation des enfants et des adolescents se partage entre États et organisations de la  société civile. La famille, « unité de base de la société » comme l’a déclaré l’ONU en 1994, et l’État, organisateur et  garant de la société civile, sont des partenaires complémentaires pour développer un humanisme commun responsable.  La famille où le « prendre soin de l’autre » est fondamental pour la vie.
66.5 S’appuyant sur le Cadre d’action Éducation 2030, le Centre catholique international de coopération avec  l’UNESCO rappelle que l’État est le garant du droit à l’éducation – il n’a pas vocation à être le responsable exclusif de  l’éducation ; affirme son attachement à la culture familiale, creuset de respect et d’amour de l’autre, au moment où les  jeunes générations doivent relever des défis sans commune mesure avec ceux qu’ont connus leurs aînés ; demande  que les familles soient intégrées dans les organisations de la société civile déjà existantes ; et rappelle les principes et  les règles fixés par la Déclaration universelle des droits de l’homme et la Charte des Nations Unies, dont la liberté de  conscience et de religion, valeur intangible et universelle pour tous les États membres.
66.6 C’est grâce au respect des peuples, au respect de la liberté et de la dignité des femmes et des hommes, grâce  à une attention particulière aux enfants et aux personnes fragilisées que le goût de la paix et d’une harmonie de la vie en  commun se développera dans notre monde multiculturel en pleine mutation. Je vous remercie.
67. The President:   Thank you very much Madam. Ladies and gentlemen, I wish to inform you that the delegation of Armenia has  asked for the right of reply to the statement made earlier this morning by Azerbaijan. In accordance with Rule 72 of our  Rules of Procedure, I will therefore accord the right to reply for two minutes. Your Excellency, the representative of  Armenia, you now have the floor.
68.1 Armenia:   Thank you Mr President. The Azerbaijan representative yesterday was preaching about the necessity of not  politicizing UNESCO, but today their own representative was doing the opposite, once again trying to drag UNESCO into  political processes that are beyond this Organization’s mandate. Speaking of historic Azerbaijan land is simply ironic. No  one has ever come across an Azerbaijan on any historic map.
68.2 There was not a single true word in the Azerbaijani statement. When I say something, I speak with truth and  evidence. Every historic monument in Armenia is preserved and protected by the Government regardless of its ethnic or  religious belonging. But the attempt to incriminate Armenia in religious hatred makes no sense. Armenians have been  living all over the world, peacefully co-existing with every nation and religion. Today, Armenia is home to 12 national  minorities including many without a kin State.
68.3 Speaking of aggression, the only true aggressor is the Azerbaijani Government that practises hate speeches  against anything Armenian, has organized massacres of Armenians in Baku, Sumgait, and Kirovabad and has launched  a full-scale war against the peaceful population of Nagorno-Karabakh. The so-called multi-ethnic Azerbaijan has no  Armenian population today, despite the fact that at the beginning of the twentieth century, Baku was an Armenian,  Russian and Jewish-populated city where all industry was started by Armenians. Every Armenian was either massacred  or had to flee the country.
68.4 Thus no official of the most xenophobic State has any moral right to speak of tolerance, making totally false  accusations. The model for today’s cultural genocide in the Middle East began many years ago when Azerbaijan started  a policy of cultural cleansing of Armenian culture. Monasteries, churches and cross-stones have been destroyed there.  We have raised the issue of the destruction of several thousand Armenian cross-stones of the medieval Armenian  cemetery in Nakhichevan on a number of occasions. UNESCO has the photo and video evidence of this destruction. In
2008, the International Council on Monuments and Sites (ICOMOS) 16th General Assembly adopted a resolution  condemning the barbaric destruction of those monuments. The call made therein to the Azerbaijani authorities to  facilitate the access of experts to study the site has since been rejected by Azerbaijan.
69. The President:   Thank you very much Your Excellency. Ladies and gentlemen, we have also received a request from the  delegation of Serbia asking for the right of reply to the statement made early this morning by Albania. Once again in  accordance with Rule 72, I have exercised my discretion and decided to accord the right to reply for two minutes. Your  Excellency, the Ambassador of Serbia, you now have the floor, Sir.
70.1 Serbia:   Thank you, Mr President. My delegation would like to reply to the statements made by the representative of  Albania and a few other delegations in favour of Kosovo’s membership of UNESCO. My task is the easy one. Everything  that we heard from them speaks loudly against that membership. UNESCO is an organization that should be dealing with  culture, education, and science and not a place for solving political issues of statehood. In the spirit of the Organization
254  and its fundamental principles, we will propose the adjournment of the debate on the request of Kosovo for membership  of UNESCO.
70.2 The aim of this proposal is to give a chance to the dialogue between Belgrade and Pristina in which also the  issue of Serbian cultural heritage in the province is yet to be discussed. I ask you to support the adjournment of the  debate. This will help to avoid further divisions, politicization and confrontation within UNESCO. If this proposal is not  accepted and it comes to a vote on the request of the so-called Republic of Kosovo to become a member of UNESCO, I  appeal to you all to vote no. Your “no” will be your “yes” for the respect of international law and resolution 1244 of the  Security Council, for the dignity of UNESCO, for the dignity, sovereignty and territorial integrity of the Member States for  the benefit of all. Vote no. Thank you.
71. The President:   Thank you very much, Your Excellency, for your statement. Ladies and gentlemen this statement concludes the  general policy debate segment of the 38th session of the General Conference. One hundred and ninety-eight speakers  participated in this debate including Heads of State or government and other distinguished guests. It was an enriching  debate and I can assure you that we have heard your wise remarks and your vision of UNESCO’s work. The Director- General and her staff have followed closely what was said in this room over the past week, and she will deliver her reply  on Monday morning at 10 o’clock sharp. I wish to thank you once again for your wisdom in speaking but equally for your  attention in listening.   Report of the APX Commission on item 1.3 “Report by the Director-General on communications received from  Member States invoking the provisions of Article IV.C, paragraph 8 (c), of the Constitution”  Rapport de la Commission APX sur le point 1.3 « Rapport de la Directrice générale sur les communications re- çues des États membres invoquant les dispositions de l'article IV.C, paragraphe 8 (c), de l'Acte constitutif »   Informe de la Comisión Administrativa sobre el punto 1.3 “Informe de la Directora General sobre las comunica- ciones recibidas de los Estados Miembros en las que se invoca lo dispuesto en el apartado c) del párrafo 8 del  Artículo IV.C de la Constitución”   Доклад Комиссии по административным вопросам по пункту 1.3 «Доклад Генерального директора о со- общениях, полученных от государств-членов в связи с положениями пункта 8 (с) статьи IV.С Устава»  عن الرسائل الواردة  ةالعام ة: "تقرير المدير ١,٣امج والعالقات الخارجية بشأن البند تقرير لجنة الشؤون المالية واإلدارية والمسائل العامة ومساندة البرن  (جـ) من المادة الرابعة (جيم) من الميثاق التأسيسي" ٨من الدول األعضاء والتي تستند فيها إلى أحكام الفقرة  行政、计划支助和对外关系委员会关于项目 1.3 的报告：“总干事关于会员国援引《组织法》第 IV.C 条第 8 款(c)的来函 的报告”
72. The President:   Before we adjourn the meeting, we will examine the report of the APX Commission on item 1.3, “Report by the  Director-General on communications received from Member States invoking the provisions of Article IV C, paragraph 8  (c) of the Constitution”. Mr Chairperson of the APX Commission, you now have the floor, Sir.
73.1 Mr Sudders (United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland) (Chairperson of the APX Commission):   Thank you Mr President. Mr President of the General Conference, Mr Chair of the Executive Board, Madam  Director-General, Excellencies. Please allow me to submit to you the report of the work of the APX Commission on  item 1.3. Item 1.3 is the “Report of the Director-General on communications received from Member States invoking the  provisions of Article IV C, paragraph 8 (c) of the Constitution”. The relevant document was document 38 C/10 and  Addendum. In accordance with Article 83 of the Rules of Procedure of the General Conference, the APX Commission  started its work with the examination of communications received from Member States invoking the provisions of Article  IV C, 8 (c) of the Constitution.
73.2 As is customary, we set up a working group in charge of the preparation of our recommendation. This group was  chaired by Germany and composed of El Salvador, Germany, Oman, Philippines, Senegal and Slovenia, thus  representing all electoral groups. The working group met four times from 4 to 6 November.
73.3 Mr President, I should like to remind you that the deadline for the submission of communications from Member  States was Friday, 6 November at 10 a.m. All Members States that had submitted their communications by this date  were permitted to continue to vote until such time that the General Conference in the plenary meeting decided otherwise,  on the basis of the report of the APX Commission.
73.4 At the first meeting of 4 November at 1 p.m. the working group noted that 14 Member States were at risk of  losing their voting rights; these were Antigua and Barbuda, Central African Republic, Comoros, Georgia, Israel,  Kyrgyzstan, Libya, Micronesia, Sao Tome and Principe, Somalia, South Sudan, Tajikistan, the United States of America,  and Venezuela (Bolivarian Republic of).
73.5 By Friday, 6 November at 10 a.m., of these 14 Member States, seven had presented, within the time limit, their  communications requesting authorization to vote, in conformity with Article IV paragraph 8 (c) of the Constitution. These  seven were the Central African Republic, Georgia, Kyrgyzstan, Libya, Somalia, South Sudan and Tajikistan. The working  group felt that more information was needed from four Member States and decided to invite their representatives. All  accepted this invitation. The working group was also informed that payment from the Bolivarian Republic of Venezuela  had been duly received and thus, the Bolivarian Republic of Venezuela is eligible for voting rights in this session of the  General Conference.
73.6 Mr President, the members of the working group carried out a thorough case-by-case analysis of the information  presented by those seven countries for its consideration. The conclusions of the working group were then presented by  its Chairperson to the APX Commission at its session yesterday afternoon, Friday 6 November.
73.7 The APX Commission, after careful examination of the conclusions of the working group, gave favourable  consideration to the requests of Central African Republic, Georgia, Kyrgyzstan, Libya, Somalia, South Sudan and  Tajikistan, that is to say, all seven which sent a communication deemed in accordance with the provisions of Article 83 of  the Rules of Procedure of the General Conference, and 30 C/Resolution 82. As such, the APX Commission has  recommended that these Member States retain their right to vote.
73.8 Finally Mr President, and just for information at this stage, on the basis of the work accomplished, the working  group has made recommendations on possible modifications of the mandate and working methods of the working group  for future sessions of the General Conference. This will be examined on Monday 9 November, in the afternoon, by the  APX Commission, and I will report on the outcome when I present my oral report on the APX Commission at the plenary  on 13 November.
73.9 Mr President, in my capacity as Chairperson of the APX Commission, I am submitting the recommendations  made by the APX Commission for adoption by the plenary meeting of the General Conference. With your indulgence, I  propose that this decision be taken without debate. Thank you for your attention.
74. The President:   Thank you very much Mr Sudders. Dear colleagues, may I consider that the General Conference approves by  consensus the recommendations made by the APX Commission. I see no objection. It is so decided.  Second report by the Chairperson of the Credentials Committee (38 C/75)  Deuxième rapport de la Présidente du Comité de vérification des pouvoirs (38 C/75)  Segundo informe de la Presidenta del Comité de Verificación de Poderes (38 C/75)  Второй доклад Председателя Комитета по проверке полномочий (38 C/75)  ( ٧٥م/٣٨( التقرير الثاني لرئيس لجنة فحص وثائق االعتماد   全权证书委员会主席的第二次报告 (38 C/75)
75. The President:   I call upon the Chairperson of the Credentials Committee to submit her report. Madam Chairperson, you have  the floor.
76.1 Ms Mariam Katagum (Nigeria) (Chairperson of the Credentials Committee):   Thank you Mr President. Mr President of the General Conference, Mr Chair of the Executive Board, Madam  Director-General, Excellencies, ladies and gentlemen. I have the honour to present the second report of the Chairperson  of the Credentials Committee. Since my first report was submitted in the plenary on 5 November 2015, the Committee  has received credentials in due form from the delegations of the Member States whose names are displayed on the  screen, and whose names are contained in document 38 C/75, together with all those to be displayed on the screen  forthwith. The Committee has also received the credentials in due form from the delegation of the Member States which  had previously submitted provisional credentials and whose names are displayed on the screen.
76.2 The Committee has also received the provisional credentials from the delegation of the Member State whose  name is displayed on the screen. In conformity with the authority delegated to me by the Credentials Committee, I  propose that the General Conference accepts these credentials. The delegations of the Member States whose names  are displayed on the screen have not yet submitted credentials. The delegations of the Associate Members whose  names are displayed on the screen have not yet submitted credentials. The Observer delegation whose name is  displayed on the screen has not yet submitted credentials. I thank you, Mr President.
77.1 The President:   Thank you very much Madam Chairperson of the Credentials Committee. Now, following the reports by the  Chairperson of the Credentials Committee on the valid credentials submitted to date, and that of the Chairperson of the  APX Commission that the General Conference has just received, I shall now proceed and read the list of Member States  that will not have the right to vote at this 38th session of the General Conference. These Member States are: Antigua and  Barbuda, Comoros, Dominica, Israel, Kiribati, Micronesia, Niue, Sao Tome and Principe, and the United States of  America. Are there any comments or any observations, please? I see none. Thank you very much.
77.2 Ladies and gentlemen, we have concluded our work for today and I am sure that you will be pleased to learn  that there will be no plenary meeting this afternoon, thanks to your efficiency, cooperation and understanding. The  plenary meeting of the General Conference will convene on Monday 9 November, at 10 o’clock sharp, when we will hear  the Director-General reply to the general policy debate. Until then, I hope you enjoy your weekend, but before I officially  close this meeting, I re-engaged Mr Anthony so that he can today lead us in the rendition of the song “We are the World”.  This time around he has agreed to honour our contract and I now invite him to do exactly that, so that he can send us off  in good spirits. Mr Anthony, the floor is all yours, Sir.
78. Belize:   Thank you Mr President. We are now going to sing the first verse and the chorus of “We are the World” and I  would invite you when I get to the chorus that you can sing along with me too. And if you want to hold hands and sway,  you can also do that.
256  (The assembly joined in a rendition of the song “We are the World”)
79. The President:   Thank you. I see Brazil is asking for the floor. Yes, you have the floor.
80. Brazil:   Thank you Mr Chair. After this beautiful display of goodwill, I would mention one of the lines of the verses says  that life is the greatest gift of all. And I would only wish that the United Nations system would stop promoting abortion in  the world. There is a vicious campaign at this moment going on in my country to make abortion legal and I would ask all  the people who like children and who think that life is the greatest gift of all to raise their voices against the killing of  babies. Thank you.
81. The President:   Ladies and gentlemen, this meeting is now adjourned.  The meeting rose at 1.55 p.m.  La séance est levée à 13 h 55  Se levanta la sesión a las 13.55  Заседание закрывается в 13.55  الظهر بعد ١,٥٥ الساعة يف اسلسة رفعت   会议于 13 时 55 分结束