44  Report on the work of the Bureau  Rapport sur les travaux du Bureau    Informe sobre las labores de la Mesa  Доклад Президиума о проделанной работе    تقرير عن عمل المكتب 主席团的工作报告
1. The President:   Good morning. Excellencies, ladies and gentlemen, now we have a quorum, and we can start with today’s  meeting. I declare open the third plenary meeting of the General Conference, which will be devoted to the general policy  debate. Before we start with the national statements, I wish to inform the delegates that the Bureau held its first meeting  this morning and I wish to call on the Secretary of the General Conference to report on this meeting. Mr Secretary, you  have the floor.
2. The Secretary:    Thank you Mr President. This morning the Bureau examined item 1.6, the organization of the work of the  session, and decided to recommend to the General Conference that the work of this 38th session be organized along the  lines and timetable contained in document 38 C/2 Prov. Rev. Thank you, Mr President.
3. The President:   Thank you very much Mr Rao. Dear colleagues, the Bureau also discussed this morning the moment for the  discussion by this plenary on item 8.3, which is the request for the admission of the Republic of Kosovo to UNESCO. The  Bureau fixed the discussion on this item for Monday, 9 November at 8.15 p.m., after the end of the reply of the Director- General to the general policy debate, subject, however, to the information provided to the Bureau at its next meeting on  Friday, 6 November by the Credentials Committee and by the Chairperson of the APX Commission concerning the  establishment of voting rights for this session. May I take it that the General Conference agrees to take note of this report?  I see no objections. It is so decided.  General policy debate (continued)  Débat de politique générale (suite)  Debate de política general (continuación)  Обсуждение вопросов общей политики (продолжение)  )جتابعمناقشة السياسة العامة    总政策辩论（续）
4. The President:  And now, ladies and gentlemen, let us start with the general policy debate. Yesterday afternoon, the Chair of the  Executive Board reported on the work of the Board over the past two years. The Director-General assessed the  achievements made by UNESCO and eloquently outlined her vision for the Organization in the following years. It was  indeed a pleasure, Madam Director-General, to listen to your report delivered, unlike me, in four official languages of the  General Conference. And now, it is time for each Member State representative to present your country’s vision for  UNESCO. The national statements will start today, and continue all day tomorrow and Friday before finishing on  Saturday morning. The Director-General and her senior management team seated here on the podium will follow closely  all your remarks and deliberations. The Director-General will deliver her reply to the general policy debate on Monday  morning. Before we start with our first speaker, please allow me to remind you that each head of delegation will have six  minutes to address the plenary. Now, I understand – and I am doing this from experience too in the Executive Board –  that it is difficult to address complex issues in such a short intervention. I am also fully aware that many of you  distinguished ministers and heads of delegations have travelled from afar to share your wisdom and concerns. However,  it is in the interests of all of us to keep within the six-minute timeframe in order to have an efficient, productive and  balanced debate. If you have already prepared a longer speech, you may request authorization to publish the extended  version of your text. To help you time your interventions, we have again placed at your disposal a visual and also a  sound system; a brief musical signal will indicate that you have one minute left to finish your speech. Once you have  reached the end of the allocated time, different pieces of world music will start playing. They will rise in crescendo if the  speech continues. In addition to that, as President of the General Conference, I am empowered to interrupt any speaker  exceeding the limit, although I am sure this will not be necessary. I thank you in advance for your understanding and  cooperation in this regard. I now have the pleasure to call on our first speaker this morning, His Excellency the  Honourable Dato’ Seri Mahdzir Khalid, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Education of Malaysia. Sir, you have the  floor.
5.1 Mr Khalid (Malaysia):   Mr President of the 38th session of the General Conference, Mr Chair of the Executive Board, Madam Director- General of UNESCO, honourable ministers, distinguished delegates, ladies and gentlemen, I am deeply honoured to be  here today at the 38th session of the General Conference of UNESCO to embrace the significance of humankind’s  efforts towards sustaining world peace. It is also a momentous occasion as we mark the 70th year of UNESCO’s  establishment in creating a better world based on compassion, tolerance and goodwill. We have come a long way since  the end of the Second World War and have worked hard to sustain this harmony. However, recent events have shown a  decline in this and it is therefore imperative that we reflect on the original purpose of our existence.
5.2 The recently launched Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) by the United Nations have highlighted 17 global  goals to achieve sustainable growth, development, and prosperity for both people and planet Earth. The introduction of  the Sustainable Development Goals is most appropriate considering the various insurgencies, civil war, terrorism and  armed conflicts that are currently taking place in many parts of the world. Malaysia has consistently been steadfast in its  stance against violent extremism and this was recently reiterated during the Leaders’ Summit on Countering Violent  Extremism held at the United Nations General Assembly, where Malaysia announced its decision to join a coalition of
60 countries to counter the Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant (ISIL). Ruthlessness during times of war and desperation  has brought destruction of world heritage sites and cities in front of our own eyes with irreversible consequences. To  Malaysia, preservation of heritage and culture is of utmost importance, and this can be reflected through its involvement  as a member of the World Heritage Committee (WHC).
5.3 In the last few months, our attention has been focused on the migrant crisis faced by some of our Member  States, which have witnessed marginalized civilians fleeing their countries in massive numbers. In support of building a  new life, UNESCO advocates for education to be made a priority and that refugee children should be accorded the basic  education they deserve.
5.4 Malaysia has also pledged to promote green growth, which includes the use of renewable energy. Solar power  has been identified as an important source of energy and Malaysia has set a target of 10% of its total energy generation  from solar technology by the year 2020. I myself had the opportunity to conduct learning lessons on climate change with  a group of Malaysian students as part of the World’s Largest Lesson (WLL) project initiated by the United Nations.
5.5 All in all, quality education is a vital foundation to empower youth worldwide towards sustainable development of  people and our planet. The nurturing of positive values and advancement in science, technology, engineering, art and  mathematics (STEAM) can be powerful tools to problem-solve many of the issues described earlier. While huge progress  has been achieved to provide equitable education worldwide through education for all (EFA), there is still much to be  done. The recent adoption of the Incheon Declaration will continue to provide guidelines on how to accomplish these  goals. Malaysia has embarked on various initiatives targeted at disadvantaged community segments such as the  “Schools in Hospitals” programme for children who are medically impaired and the Sekolah Bimbingan Jalinan Kasih  (SBJK) programme for homeless and street children.
5.6 Since 2013, Malaysia has embarked on a transformational journey of its relatively complex education system to  create a culture of lifelong learning. We have introduced the technical and vocational education and training (TVET)  course which aims to develop human capital and skilled labour, preparing graduates for the job market, and ultimately  contribute to boosting the economy. In support of this development, UNESCO, together with the Malaysian Government,  held the Asia-Pacific Conference on Education and Training (ACET) recently in Kuala Lumpur, focusing on the theme of  nurturing skills development and coming up with future commitments through the Kuala Lumpur Declaration. In upholding  accountability throughout this transformational journey, we have produced annual reports describing key successes and  challenges and we will be more than happy to share further details with interested Member States. Thank you,  Mr President.
6. The President:   Thank you very much Your Excellency. Our next speaker is His Excellency Mr Lundeg Purevsuren, the Minister  for Foreign Affairs of Mongolia. Your Excellency, you have the floor.
7.1 Mr Purevsuren (Mongolia):   Mr President, Madam Director-General, honourable delegates, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of my delegation  and in my own name, I would like to congratulate you, Mr President, on your election to this high office and express my  full confidence that under your wise and able leadership our deliberations will produce fruitful results. You can count on  my delegation’s full support. We warmly welcome the delegation of Montserrat in joining UNESCO as its tenth Associate  Member, and wish it fruitful cooperation with the UNESCO family.
7.2 Mr President, I am delighted to address, for this first time in my capacity as Minister for Foreign Affairs of  Mongolia and Chairman of the Mongolian National Commission for UNESCO, the 38th session of the General  Conference of the United Nations Organization for Education, Science and Culture, well known as the “intellectual arm”  of the United Nations. As this session coincides with the anniversary of UNESCO, it is indeed my great honour to deliver  to this august body the Government of Mongolia’s views on the Organization’s past tremendous achievements and future  ambitious goals in promoting the noble cause of lasting peace.
7.3 Just two months ago, 193 United Nations members unanimously adopted the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable  Development, which has 17 Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) and 169 targets, to take the bold and  transformative steps urgently needed to shift the world onto a sustainable and resilient path. By successfully  implementing SDG 4, “Ensure inclusive and equitable quality education and promote lifelong learning opportunities for  all” and its corresponding targets, we can complete the “unfinished business” of the worldwide movement for education  for all (EFA) initiated in Jomtien in 1990 and reiterated in Dakar in 2000. In this regard, let me stress the importance of  the historic World Education Forum (WEF), which took place in May 2014 in Incheon, in the Republic of Korea, for taking  stock of progress made towards the EFA goals since 2000 and the education-related Millennium Development Goals  (MDGs), examining the remaining challenges, and defining a new vision for education.
7.4 I am pleased to note that Mongolia was one of the co-sponsors of the United Nations resolution on the United  Nations Literacy Decade (2003-2012) designed to provide an impetus for achieving the six EFA goals and developing  literate environments. Literacy is the precondition not only for exercising fundamental human rights, but also for acquiring
46  essential life skills and basic education, which are indispensable means for effective participation in the societies of the  twenty-first century.
7.5 Nowadays, basic literacy skills are not perceived as reading and writing only. They also comprise computing  skills enabling people to function effectively in information technology-based or Internet-based societies and make  informed life choices. Hence, I am pleased to note that, in order to make its contribution to promoting online freedom,  Mongolia successfully held the fifth ministerial conference of the Freedom Online Coalition in May 2015 in Ulaanbaatar.  Online freedom as one of the “global commons” is essential for human and sustainable development as well as for the  realization of human rights.
7.6 Furthermore, integrating education for democracy, along with civic education, into national education standards  and programmes is crucial for the consolidation of democratic values and democratic governance and human rights. In  this regard, I wish to underline that Mongolia’s endeavours aimed at developing a culture of democracy and fostering  global citizenship, by initiating the resolution on education for democracy, adopted at the 67th session of the United  Nations General Assembly in November 2012, and the resolution on supporting the global citizenship agenda through  education for democracy, adopted at the 37th session of the UNESCO General Conference in November 2013  respectively.
7.7 Mr President, science, technology and innovation are the key solutions to today’s tough economic, social and  environmental challenges and to achieving sustainable development and building greener economies. Hence, Mongolia  fully supports, and seeks to benefit from, the Management of Social Transformations (MOST) Programme, launched as  part of UNESCO’s endeavours in the Social and Human Sciences Sector and with the purpose of producing reliable and  relevant knowledge for policy-makers. Since the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development is about social  transformation, the MOST programme is very relevant to successfully achieving its all-ambitious goals and targets. As  culture in its various manifestations is an enabler of social and economic progress and a driving force of sustainable  development, its potential should be extensively exploited.
8. The President:   Your Excellency, my sincere apologies. Sorry, time is up. Your speech will be available online. Thank you very  much, Your Excellency, for your cooperation. The next speaker is His Excellency the Honourable Dr Mahendra Reddy,  Minister of Education, Heritage and Arts of Fiji. Your Excellency, you have the floor.
9.1 Mr Reddy (Fiji):   Mr President of the General Conference, Mr Chair of the Executive Board, Madam Director-General of UNESCO,  Excellencies, distinguished delegations, ladies and gentlemen, bula vinaka to you all. Allow me to extend my profound  congratulations to UNESCO on behalf of Fiji’s Government for having reached its 70th anniversary this month. Fiji  celebrates with the rest of the world in acknowledging the immense contributions of UNESCO to education, culture,  sciences, communication and information. I pay tribute to those visionary leaders who helped steer the Organization  successfully and strategically through very unstable and challenging periods since its inception in November, 1945, to  achieve long-lasting peace throughout the world. I reaffirm with deep conviction that we all must embrace UNESCO’s  vision, that it is in the minds of men and women that wars begin and it is in the minds of women and men that peace shall  be built.
9.2 Mr President, in my maiden speech this morning in this august body of UNESCO, I would like to reflect on Fiji’s  achievements. You are well aware that Fiji successfully completed its general elections in September last year, giving a  clear mandate to the Fiji First Party to govern Fiji for the next four years. With its new 50-member Parliament, I am proud  to say that Fiji has assumed and will continue to assume its global role amongst the democracies of the world.
9.3 Fiji has continued to leap forward in its economic growth, reaching more than 4% since 2012 and 5.3% in 2014,  and domestic and foreign investors continue to grow their businesses in Fiji, bringing much relief to the people in terms of  employment opportunities, better living standards, healthier lifestyles and much more robust and dynamic communities.
9.4 We are indeed grateful for UNESCO’s immense contribution to education, culture, natural and human sciences  and communication and information in Fiji. This has been in the areas of numerous capacity-building programmes,  assistance to international and regional conferences, technical support, funding and undertaking research work, to name  but a few. Equally, we are privileged to have been assisted by UNESCO in support of the continuous development of the  historical port town of Levuka, which was inscribed as a UNESCO world heritage site in June 2013.
9.5 Mr President, on gender equality, as this is a global priority of UNESCO, and reflecting on the Education 2030  Framework for Action, Fiji will continue to strengthen its gender policy by ensuring that women and men have equal  opportunities for recruitment and promotion, in schools, for capacity building, for selection of in-service and pre-service  training of teachers, the eradication of gender violence towards women and girls and strengthen the programmes and  initiatives to reduce and prevent school-related gender-based violence.
9.6 Fiji has made great strides in the education sector. The Government allocated for the first time the highest  budget, 16.7% of the total government budget, towards education. Currently it is proud to show that Fiji’s adult literacy  rate stands at 93%. Mr President, we have early childhood education (ECE) centres, primary and secondary schools and  three universities throughout Fiji. We have strategized for reforms in education that we have embarked on from late last  year, continuing on from the reforms undertaken prior to elections last year by the reigning Bainimarama Government,  basically to ensure that everyone is given free education from pre-school right up to first degree at university.  Mr President, like any other country, we have our share of challenges, and these are the poor and missing infrastructure  and the geographical spatial distribution across 150 islands in Fiji.
9.7 Mr President, in culture, these are the activities that we have embarked upon: ratification of the UNESCO 2003  Convention for the Safeguarding of the Intangible Cultural Heritage; national consultation on the UNESCO 2005  Convention on the Protection and Promotion of the Diversity of Cultural Expressions; and signing of a bilateral cultural  cooperation agreement between Fiji and China, to name but a few.
9.8 Mr President, the following are some of the challenges that we are confronted with: embracing contemporary  culture as part of the collective culture, the heritage sector to be covered in national policy, and intellectual property and  privacy issues.
9.9 Mr President, I will now provide some brief background on our national archives. The national archives of Fiji  have moved in leaps and bounds over the last four years. We have started on a reform programme to modernize  operations and increase our impact on society. Firstly, we have secured a staffing increase that has enabled us to  implement quality assurance programmes to deal with numerous unplanned deposits that were taking up vital space and  jeopardizing the proper management of our holdings. Outreach activities have also increased dramatically to seek to put  the public in touch with their heritage.
9.10 Mr President, in the communication and information sector, we have also distributed one learning device per  primary school student, especially in rural and remote areas. The Government has also established information and  communication technology telecentres to bridge the digital divide in rural remote areas. We also launched a digital  literacy programme in schools earlier this year in our bid to develop the digital exposure of our children so they can  establish themselves as natives of this digital era that we live in. We have also secured assistance from developed  countries to help us in our quest to bridge the digital divide.
9.11 Mr President, regarding climate change, I would like to reiterate the words of our Honourable Prime Minister  when he delivered his statement at the United Nations General Assembly in September this year. He said, “Like our  neighbours in the South Pacific and other small island developing States (SIDS) we see the bright future we have  charted for ourselves dimmed by the prospect of climate change and sea-level rise. Fiji has been outspoken in insisting  that all nations do their duty with regard to reducing carbon emissions and controlling the production of greenhouse  gases”. Fiji is doing its part, but our part in creating these crises is very small, practically negligible, and the more  developed nations as well must do their part.
9.12 Mr President, the Education 2030 Framework for Action as adopted by the World Education Forum in the  Republic of Korea in May this year sets a clear pathway for Fiji to reassess its commitment and to map the way forward.  Fiji being a developing country cannot do this alone, as we rely on UNESCO and the more developed countries for  further assistance. Finally, Mr President, I convey my best wishes for a successful conference. Thank you.
(11.1) Mr Iqbal Omar (Iraq) (translation from the Arabic):   Mr President of the General Conference, Mr Chair of the Executive Board, Madam Director-General of UNESCO,  Your Excellencies, heads and members of delegations, peace and the mercy and blessings of God be upon you. I am  pleased, at the opening of the 38th session of the General Conference of UNESCO in 2015, in Paris, to welcome you and to  convey to you the greetings of His Excellency the President, Fuad Masum and His Excellency the Prime Minister, Dr Haidar al- Abadi, along with their wishes for the success of the General Conference. Allow me, at the outset, to address sincere thanks to  Ms Irina Bokova, Director-General of UNESCO, for her positive role and logistical support in appraising the immediate and  urgent needs of Iraq, and in responding to the requests for humanitarian assistance, urgent reconstruction and reform in Iraq  in the field of primary, secondary, vocational, technical and higher education, as well as in the field of maintaining and  preserving culture, science, heritage and communications. Thanks also go to all those working in UNESCO for the efforts they  have exerted to ensure the success of various activities in preparation for this global forum.
(11.2) Distinguished delegates, the Iraqi Ministry of Education, in cooperation with UNESCO, is striving to achieve the  education for all (EFA) goals by exerting additional efforts to address the issues that have accumulated in Iraq over the  decades, and for reasons which are no longer hidden to anyone, and which have begun to constitute the greatest challenges  hampering the implementation of modern educational programmes and the renewal of infrastructure, etc. The education  system in Iraq is still endeavouring to rehabilitate schools, appoint new teachers, focus on girls’ education, reform curricula,  increase the number of school libraries and laboratories, provide learning resources, reform organizational structures, and  increase cooperation with external partners and international organizations and agencies. One of the greatest obstacles facing  the education sector in the light of the unprecedented challenges and humanitarian emergencies confronting Iraq is the  escalation in the number of acts of violence in recent months as a result of the presence of armed terrorist groups, which has  led to the migration of numerous families to various localities in the country. We estimate the number of migrants of school- going age at more than half a million. The new school year began in September, and the pupils are supposed to go back to  school. We estimate the number of pupils of school-going age at 45% of the migrants engendered by the current crisis. Our  ministry has endeavoured strenuously, with the support of and in cooperation with your venerable Organization, to discuss  ways of ensuring the school attendance of migrants by providing school camps, textbooks, teaching materials, notebooks, and  school furniture, and by holding exams, despite the extreme difficulty of doing so according to the standards applicable in our  ministry.
(11.3) With respect to culture, we in our Permanent Delegation to UNESCO are striving, in cooperation with your  Organization, to protect and maintain the cultural heritage, museums and archaeological sites and to have them inscribed on  the World Heritage List and prevent trafficking in Iraqi cultural property, especially that which has been subject to looting and  plunder in recent times. UNESCO has a great and positive role to play, and the Director-General, Irina Bokova, has visited  Baghdad in the past year, and issued a number of appeals and taken urgent measures which have led to the holding of  emergency Security Council meetings in order to protect the archaeological sites that have been prey to plunder and  destruction by armed terrorists, and to consider such acts as war crimes of deliberate destruction of cultural heritage. In  addition, the Director of the Louvre Museum has visited Baghdad in order to provide some of Iraq’s requirements for the  protection of antiquities.
(11.4) Distinguished delegates, we wish to strengthen freedom of expression despite the exceptional circumstances the  country is experiencing. We give complete freedom of expression to the information media, and we lay stress on meeting the  needs and aspirations of youth, because young people are facing numerous and increasingly complex challenges. The Iraqi  Government has responded to the wide-ranging protests against corruption and social inequality that have become ingrained  in recent years, and has adopted a package of reforms aimed at promoting the rule of law, enhancing the system of public  administration, and ensuring respect for human rights. Education is essential to the recovery of society; it provides hope for the  future, and gives a feeling of natural life. From this rostrum, we call on all States of the world to stand together with Iraq and  support it in its efforts to rid itself of the problems and obstacles thwarting its march to science, education and culture. In  conclusion, I wish your Conference every success. Peace and the mercy and blessings of God be upon you.
(13.1) Mr Al-Hammadi (Qatar) (translation from the Arabic):   In the name of God, the Merciful, the Compassionate. Your Excellency the President of the General Conference,  Your Excellency the Chair of the Executive Board, Your Excellency Ms Irina Bokova, Director-General of UNESCO,  Excellencies, ladies and gentlemen, peace and the mercy and blessings of God be upon you. Allow me, as I address you at  this General Conference, in my personal capacity and on behalf of the Qatari delegation, to congratulate Mr Stanley Simataa  on his election as President of this session of the General Conference and to wish him every success in guiding its work. I also  convey sincere thanks to the President of the General Conference at its previous session and to the Chair and Members of the  Executive Board for their efforts. I take this opportunity to commend the efforts of Ms Irina Bokova, Director-General of  UNESCO, in managing the Organization despite the great challenges that have faced it owing to the reduction in the budget  and the shortfall in income.
(13.2) Ladies and gentlemen, only recently there was a summit at the 70th session of the United Nations General Assembly  in which the leaders of most of the countries of the world participated. The summit adopted the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable  Development, which is a positive step on the way to achieving partnership-based development at the international level.  However, we do not expect to reap the desired fruit, especially in our Arab region, as long as the conflicts and wars we are  experiencing continue, and as long as there is no peace and stability – as His Excellency Sheikh Tamim bin Hamad Al Thani,  beloved Prince of our country, said in his statement to the General Assembly, there will be no development or justice, and the  adoption by the leaders of States of the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development requires us as officials, and UNESCO, to  exert greater efforts at the national level and to strive for mutual support and cooperation at the international level in order to  achieve Sustainable Development Goal 4, concerning education, which was discussed and commented on at the Incheon  meeting in the Republic of Korea. I stress here the need to ensure the provision of basic education for all children, and to fill  the great gaps that we have seen regarding the achievement of this goal during the coming decade.
(13.2) We in Qatar, under the leadership and guidance of His Highness the beloved Prince of our country, attach great  importance to all levels and cycles of education, and we are constantly aware of our humanitarian duty towards the peoples of  the world and the importance of international cooperation to support education and global education goals and objectives,  confident that education may make a positive contribution to achieving rapprochement, communication and interaction among  civilizations, and may strengthen shared humanitarian values, human rights, and the principles of right, justice, peace and  mutual respect. On this basis, our country has taken the initiative of offering development assistance to developing countries  and countries affected by disasters in various parts of the world by making positive contributions to relevant international  organizations such as UNESCO and civil society organizations.
(13.3) Ladies and gentlemen, education for sustainable development is the only way to build the capacities, qualifications  and values of individuals and societies in order to respond to environmental hazards with innovative solutions. Qatar has  therefore included sustainable development and related values and practices in its educational curricula in order to achieve its  National Vision 2030. Similarly, our education system has been developed in accordance with international criteria in order to  attain good-quality education with substantive outputs of high quality. With regard to enhancing education outputs, we have  updated the general framework for pupil assessment policies, developed a general framework document for the national  education curriculum of Qatar, implemented an initiative to strengthen reading, writing and arithmetical skills at the early  education stage, developed an adult education system, established a specialized centre for pupils with educational difficulties,  and renewed and developed the system of vocational certifications for teachers and school heads. Confident as we are that  scientific research is the right way to develop a scientific base to lead the country towards a knowledge-based economy, Qatar  University has established 10 applied research centres with multiple specializations, and has implemented, in cooperation with  UNESCO, a number of projects aimed at building research and scientific skills and capacities among secondary-level pupils.
(13.4) Ladies and gentlemen, we salute UNESCO for its continued efforts to support the tangible and intangible cultural  heritage protection programmes all over the world, and to strengthen capacity building for individuals in order to preserve that  heritage, with a view to embodying the humanitarian ideal and preserving the national identity. Within the framework of our  participation in these efforts, Qatar took the initiative, at the most recent session of the World Heritage Committee (WHC), of  contributing an amount of $10 million to support the Heritage Emergency Fund.
(13.5) Ladies and gentlemen, at the close of my statement, I am bound to stress that the issue of Jerusalem and protecting  it from the digging works being undertaken by the Israeli Government with a view to changing the historic nature of the al-Aqṣà  Mosque, and the works desecrating and insulting al-Ḥaram ash-Sharīf is crucial for all Arab and Islamic States. Despite the  fact that they have been addressed at numerous Executive Board sessions and most sessions of the General Conference of  UNESCO, we have not, thus far, seen in practice any measures designed to curb or prevent these excesses. Rather, in recent  times, we have witnessed a dangerous escalation by the Israeli authorities and religious hardliners in their attacks against  Jerusalem. From this rostrum, we call upon our Organization to take all possible urgent and decisive measures for the  protection and preservation of the sacred religious sites. I thank you all for your attention, and wish you and your General  Conference every success. Peace and the mercy and blessings of God be upon you.
14. The President:    Thank you very much Your Excellency. Our next speaker is His Excellency, Mr Serigne Mbaye Thiam, Minister  of National Education of Senegal. Your Excellency, you have the floor.
15.1 M. Thiam (Sénégal) :   Excellences, Mesdames et Messieurs, cette 38e session de la Conférence générale coïncide avec le
70e anniversaire de l’Organisation mais également avec le 55e anniversaire de l’adhésion de mon pays à l’UNESCO. En  effet, juste après son accession à l’indépendance, la jeune nation sénégalaise a rejoint la grande famille de l’UNESCO,  en novembre 1960, pour faire siennes les valeurs de l’Organisation. Depuis, que de chemin parcouru, que de défis  relevés ! Ainsi, dans le secteur de l’éducation, au moment de faire le bilan de la réalisation des objectifs de l’Éducation  pour tous (EPT) et à quelques heures de l’adoption de l’agenda mondial Éducation 2030, mon pays, grâce notamment à  l’accompagnement de l’UNESCO, peut se prévaloir de progrès très importants dans les domaines de l’accès et de  l’équité.
15.2 En ce qui concerne la gouvernance, l’Organisation a également marqué de son empreinte toutes les réformes  du secteur éducatif sénégalais relatives aux curricula, à la gestion des ressources humaines, au financement et à bien  d’autres aspects. En réalité, la politique éducative du Sénégal, comme d’ailleurs l’ensemble des secteurs de  développement du pays, a pris, sous l’impulsion du Plan Sénégal émergent, un nouveau tournant grâce au leadership  engagé du Président Macky Sall. Les Assises de l’éducation et de la formation et le Conseil présidentiel tenu en août
2015 sur les conclusions de ces assises sont la dernière preuve de la volonté politique du Sénégal de continuer à bâtir  une école pour tous, une école de qualité et de la réussite, une école viable, stable et pacifiée, plus centrée sur  l’apprenant et accordant la priorité aux filières scientifiques, technologiques et professionnelles.
15.3 Le nouveau plan sectoriel pour l’éducation en vigueur au Sénégal, le PAQUET (Programme d’amélioration de la  qualité, de l’équité et de la transparence), après avoir bien identifié les défis majeurs auxquels doit faire face le système  éducatif, a mis au point des stratégies parfaitement alignées sur les recommandations du Rapport mondial de suivi sur  l’EPT 2000-2015 et sur les orientations fondamentales de l’agenda Éducation 2030.
15.4 S’agissant de la culture, le Gouvernement du Sénégal, tout en réaffirmant son soutien aux priorités de  l’UNESCO, s’investit pour l’ouverture prochaine, en 2016, des portes du Musée des civilisations noires, réalisant ainsi un  vœu cher au Président poète Léopold Sédar Senghor. À cet effet, je voudrais, du haut de cette tribune, lancer un appel à  l’Afrique et à sa diaspora, aux intellectuels du monde entier, aux décideurs politiques et aux artistes, mais également à  l’UNESCO, pour que nous fassions de ce musée un espace de célébration des civilisations noires dans leurs aspirations  communes à la rencontre de l’autre, et pour que prospèrent la diversité et le dialogue des cultures en vue d’une paix et  d’un développement durables. Avec une telle ambition, le Musée des civilisations noires est tout naturellement notre  affaire à tous. Il transcende le monde noir et s’inscrit dans un espace planétaire devenu global et métis.
15.5 Dans le domaine des sciences exactes et naturelles, mon pays est plus que préoccupé par la problématique du  changement climatique, tant les périls environnementaux sont présents dans notre vécu de tous les jours. Nous  encourageons l’UNESCO à poursuivre ses initiatives dans ce domaine, tout comme dans les domaines de l’eau et de la  biodiversité, et souhaitons le renforcement des moyens alloués aux programmes de la Commission océanographique  intergouvernementale et du MAB, ainsi que ceux destinés à la culture de la résilience face aux inondations et aux autres  catastrophes.
15.6 Dans le domaine des sciences humaines et sociales, ma délégation soutient les initiatives de la Directrice  générale relatives à la lutte contre la pauvreté et à l’inclusion sociale, initiatives qui sont en phase avec la loi d’orientation  sociale du Sénégal. Le programme des Bourses de sécurité familiale et la Carte de l’égalité des chances, initiés par le  Président Macky Sall et visant à soutenir les familles démunies et les personnes en situation de vulnérabilité et de  handicap, participent de cette lutte contre la pauvreté et de cette promotion de l’inclusion sociale.
15.7 Le Sénégal, qui exerce actuellement la présidence de la Communauté économique des États de l'Afrique de  l'Ouest (CEDEAO), encourage également l’UNESCO à renforcer son programme d’éducation à la paix et à la  citoyenneté mondiale.
15.8 Pour conclure, ma délégation appuie fortement la priorité accordée au Grand programme V et s’honore de  l’inscription au Registre Mémoire du monde de deux nouveaux fonds documentaires, les « Cahiers de l’École William  Ponty » et la « Collection de cartes postales anciennes de l’Afrique Occidentale Française ». Mesdames, Messieurs,  Excellences, je vous remercie de votre aimable attention.
16. The President:   Thank you very much Your Excellency. Our next speaker is His Excellency, Mr Shiferaw Shigute, Minister of Education  of Ethiopia. Your Excellency, you have the floor.
17.1 Mr Shigute (Ethiopia):   Mr President of the General Conference, Mr President of the Executive Board, Madam Director-General, Excellencies,  distinguished delegates, ladies and gentlemen. Mr President, on behalf of the Ministry of Education of the Federal  Democratic Republic of Ethiopia and myself, let me first congratulate you upon your election as President of the General  Conference. My delegation is confident that under your leadership we will have successful deliberations. I would also like  to assure you and members of the Bureau of the full support of my delegation.
17.2 As you may know, Ethiopia is one of the fast-growing economies in the world, which is politically stable and  determined to become a middle-income economy by 2025. To this effect, we set ambitious but achievable targets. As  stipulated in the second Ethiopian growth and transformation plan (GTP II), the major pillars of our strategies are:  sustaining faster and equitable economic growth; maintaining agriculture as a major source of economic growth; creating  favourable conditions for the industry to play a key role in the economy; enhancing the expansion and quality of  infrastructure development; enhancing the expansion and quality of social development; building capacity and deepening  good governance; and promoting women’s and youth empowerment and equitable benefit-sharing.
17.3 As clearly stated at the high-level Oslo Summit on Education for Development and endorsed under Education
2030, “investing in teachers is investing in learning”. We also believe in the crucial role of teachers in peace-building and  societal development. As stipulated in its teachers’ development strategy, Ethiopia is strongly committed to ensuring the  availability of qualified teachers in adequate numbers. However, one can argue that investing in education and investing  in teachers alone cannot make a difference without children and young people in school. To this effect, early childhood  care and education up to tertiary level, including lifelong learning, are inescapable.
17.4  The inclusion of migration in the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) is a huge milestone, correcting its  absence from the Millennium Development Goals (MDGs). Migration and human mobility are included in four SDGs.  UNESCO’s mandate to place humanity at the centre of our concern should be reflected more than ever. UNESCO’s  mandate to achieve sustainable development and to build effective, accountable and inclusive institutions at all levels  should be met.
17.5 Together with the Addis Ababa Action Agenda, adopted at the Third International Conference on Financing for  Development, we have a global vision and framework up to 2030 that enables us to move from commitment to action to  deliver our development promises.
17.6 Empowering women and girls, ensuring their sexual and reproductive health and human rights is essential to an  inclusive society where they are able to complete their education and pursue jobs. Many programmes targeting girls  have been sensitizing more people, including education and community leaders, about the benefits of girls’ education,  delayed marriage, family planning and elimination of harmful traditional practices. This is a pledge and shared repetition  of our government, which has huge public support.
17.7 Ethiopia is a culturally diverse country which has a federal government that strongly believes in diversity,  tolerance and humanity. This was witnessed when we hosted International Day for Tolerance with the motto “Through  our tolerance culture, we will be a model to the world”. In Ethiopia, 83 indigenous languages are spoken with some
200 dialects. This variety of languages and dialects provides a rich cultural mosaic of various nations and nationalities.
17.8 This is why our delegation has been proactively working with the World Heritage Centre and the Culture Sector  to enforce our legal framework by building capacity in site  management and all conservation issues. Notwithstanding the  achievements of having registered several heritage sites, intangible heritage and biosphere reserves, Ethiopia urges  UNESCO to encourage African countries to file more qualified quality nominations.
17.9 Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Ethiopia’s contribution to global warming is almost nothing. However, in  Africa, Ethiopia is advocating for the environmental issues per the Copenhagen agreement on climate change. Ethiopia  is implementing a Climate-Resilient Green Economy Strategy that engages our country on sustainable land management,  prevention of land degradation as well as desertification and deforestation, expanding the use of renewable energy and  utilizing modern energy-efficient technologies. Minimizing the negative consequences of climate change such as drought  and flood is our priority, and we are very much confident that the international community will seize the opportunity to  reaffirm its commitment to implementing SDG 13 at the twenty-first session of the United Nations Climate Change  Conference (COP 21) meeting in Paris in a few weeks. Finally, on behalf of our Government and myself, I would like to  express our sincere thanks to those partners who contributed to the rapid development of Ethiopia in all its forms. Thank  you for your attention.
18. The President:    Thank you very much Your Excellency. Our next speaker is His Excellency Mr Eric Jover Comas, Minister of  Education and Higher Education of Andorra. Your Excellency, you have the floor.
19.1 M. Comas (Andorre) :   Monsieur le Président de la Conférence générale, Madame la Directrice générale, ministres et délégués, le  Gouvernement d’Andorre est convaincu que l’éducation est le principal outil de transformation de la société. C’est pour  cela que bien qu’une importante crise économique ait touché notre pays comme bien d’autres, l’une des priorités de  notre Gouvernement a été de maintenir et même d’augmenter le budget dédié à l’éducation.
19.2 L’Andorre est en train de mettre en œuvre un important processus d’ouverture et de diversification de son  modèle économique. Cette transformation nécessite un capital humain polyvalent qui sache s’adapter à des conditions  changeantes. Il est donc logique que notre Gouvernement considère le budget de l’éducation comme un investissement  et en aucun cas comme une dépense. En ce sens, nous défendons des structures éducatives plus dynamiques, plus  adaptées à ce monde en constant changement, tout particulièrement pour les formations plus professionnalisantes où  tant les programmes théoriques et pratiques que les compétences des enseignants doivent évoluer en coordination avec  les entreprises locales. Je me permets d’insister sur la nécessité que ces formations se déclinent non seulement en  formation initiale mais aussi et surtout comme des formations tout au long de la vie. La crise économique a touché  profondément différents secteurs d’activité traditionnels en Andorre et il est de notre devoir de donner les outils  nécessaires à la reconversion des travailleurs affectés.
19.3 Le Gouvernement d’Andorre est convaincu que l’éducation est le principal outil de transformation de la société.  Les crises économiques affectent surtout les secteurs les plus démunis de notre société. Conscient de ce fait, le  Gouvernement fait des efforts tout particulièrement dans l’accompagnement des plus vulnérables et des handicapés tout  au long de leur vie et plus spécifiquement à l’école. L’inclusivité n’est pas une valeur en soi mais elle permet d’améliorer  la qualité de vie des handicapés, en repoussant les limites imposées par leurs handicaps et en développant leur  socialisation. L’inclusivité permet aussi au reste des scolaires de prendre conscience de la diversité inhérente à toute  société.
19.4 Cette diversité est aussi culturelle. L’Andorre est un pays de frontière qui, grâce à sa neutralité, est devenu terre  d’accueil. Les Andorrans ne représentent que la moitié de la population totale du territoire, qui compte actuellement
70 000 habitants, une centaine d’autres nationalités venant compléter cette société plurielle. C’est seulement à travers le  respect de la différence et la construction d’un futur en commun qu’une telle diversité peut devenir un atout.
19.5 L’une des particularités de l’Andorre est sa structure éducative construite autour de trois systèmes éducatifs de  libre choix, publics et gratuits : un système andorran, un système  espagnol et un système français. Cette diversité de  choix permet de former une citoyenneté plurielle, ouverte au monde. L’atout de ce modèle ne tient pas seulement à la  superposition des trois systèmes mais au fait que, par la promotion d’activités communes, des synergies se créent qui  permettent d’en maximiser les bénéfices en partageant leurs particularités. Permettez-moi ici de remercier les États  français et espagnol qui ont permis l’existence historique de ce modèle auquel ils qui ont récemment renouvelé leur  soutien.
19.6 Il existe donc un brassage de nationalités et une diversité de systèmes éducatifs mais nous considérons que  notre culture propre doit être un important élément d’identité et de cohésion sociale. Cette culture s’articule tant autour  de la langue qu’autour d’un patrimoine matériel et immatériel et d’une histoire dont la paix et la neutralité sont les  principales clefs de voûte. En ce sens, la devise inscrite sur notre drapeau « Virtus Unita Fortior » nous rappelle que  l’union fait la force.
19.7 L’Andorre, en tant que champion de l’Initiative mondiale pour l’éducation avant tout promue par l’Organisation  des Nations Unies, a participé au développement de l’éducation à la citoyenneté globale et démocratique qui a été, ce  dont je me félicite, reprise dans le cadre des objectifs de l’Agenda 2030. Aussi, la présidence andorrane du Comité des  Ministres du Conseil de l’Europe, entre novembre 2012 et mai 2013, a-t-elle fait de la promotion de l’éducation à la  citoyenneté démocratique et aux droits de l’homme sa principale priorité. Il en est résulté un mandat du Comité pour  l’élaboration de descripteurs de compétences dans ce domaine. Nous espérons que l’UNESCO, qui cite déjà cet  instrument technique dans ses documents de travail, pourra travailler conjointement avec le Conseil de l’Europe pour  arriver à des indicateurs objectifs.
19.8 Il est important de croire en l’éducation, mais plus encore de croire en sa qualité. Il est indispensable que  chaque système éducatif mesure objectivement ses résultats et puisse mettre en place des processus d’amélioration  continus. C’est seulement ainsi que nous pourrons accroître le niveau de compétence de nos jeunes. Et l’on ne peut  parler de qualité dans le domaine de l’éducation sans parler de la qualité et de la formation des enseignants. Il est
53  nécessaire de revaloriser cette profession – élément-clé de l’enseignement - et de la centrer sur la qualité, par exemple  en mettant l’accent sur les plans de formation continue des professeurs. En ce sens, nous allons réformer notre loi  relative au corps enseignant.
19.9 Le Gouvernement d’Andorre est convaincu que l’éducation est le principal outil de transformation de la société.  En mai 2015, l’UNESCO a approuvé la Déclaration d’Incheon qui définit les objectifs 2030 pour l’éducation et qui  s’intègre naturellement à l’Agenda 2030 pour le développement durable approuvé en septembre dernier par l’Assemblée  générale des Nations Unies. L’Andorre tient à souligner sa pleine adhésion à cette déclaration et sa détermination à  lutter pour la réalisation des objectifs de développement durable. Même si les problématiques qui se posent sont souvent  globales, nous sommes convaincus que c’est surtout à travers des actions locales, à l’échelle de nos pays, que nous  pouvons participer à l’accomplissement de ces objectifs. Par exemple, dans le cas du changement climatique, nous  savons que les zones de montagne – et l’Andorre en fait partie – sont particulièrement vulnérables.
19.10 Nous tenons à saluer le Gouvernement de la France pour l’organisation et la promotion de la COP21 qui aura  lieu à Paris à la fin de ce mois de novembre. Je vous informe d’ores et déjà que l’Andorre y participera activement car,  pour reprendre les paroles prononcées par le Président de la République française devant l’Assemblée générale des  Nations Unies, face au changement climatique, plus tard serait certainement trop tard. Merci, Monsieur le Président.
20. The President:    Thank you very much Your Excellency. Our next speaker is His Excellency Mr Maker Famba Mwangu, Minister  of Education for the Democratic Republic of the Congo, Minister of Primary and Secondary Education and Initiative to the  New Citizenship of the Democratic Republic of the Congo. You have the floor, Sir.
21.1 M. Mwangu (République démocratique du Congo) :   Monsieur le Président, au nom de la République démocratique du Congo, nous vous félicitons ainsi que tous les  membres du Bureau, et vous souhaitons plein succès dans la conduite des travaux.
21.2 Le 70e anniversaire de l’UNESCO témoigne de la maturité, de la valeur ajoutée et de l’expérience de notre  Organisation. Face aux nouveaux défis de la pauvreté, de l’extrémisme et des changements climatiques, les motivations  à l’origine de la création de l’UNESCO demeurent. Consciente du rôle de l’éducation dans le développement durable, la  République démocratique du Congo remercie l’UNESCO de l’avoir associée aux réunions de Mascate, d’Incheon et de  Qingdao.
21.3 Nous remercions la Directrice générale, Mme Irina Bokova, de s’être rendue dans notre pays en décembre 2014  afin d’encourager et de féliciter les autorités pour l’amélioration du système éducatif congolais, notamment. Le Président  de la République, S. E. Joseph Kabila Kabenge, a placé l’éducation au cœur de sa vision pour l’émergence de la  République démocratique du Congo à l’horizon 2030. Le Gouvernement s’attelle ainsi à construire un système éducatif  inclusif et de qualité pour tous, à travers une stratégie sectorielle de l’éducation et de la formation sur une période de
10 ans. C’est l’occasion de saluer l’augmentation, prévue dans le 38 C/5, du budget consacré à l’éducation, ainsi que la  détermination renouvelée de l’UNESCO à accompagner les États membres dans la reconstruction de leur système  éducatif.
21.4 Le développement de la recherche et la promotion de la culture sont aussi un volet de la vision pour  l’émergence de la République démocratique du Congo. Nous nous investissons dans la préservation de notre patrimoine  culturel, avec deux initiatives phares, à savoir l’inscription sur la Liste du patrimoine mondial, avec l’appui de l’UNESCO,  du site d’Ishango ainsi que de la rumba, danse emblématique que nous partageons avec nos voisins africains – dont le  Congo – et des pays d’Amérique latine et des Caraïbes. Ishango est une localité de l’Est de la République démocratique  du Congo où fut découvert en 1950, par un géologue belge, l’os ou le bâton dit « d’Ishango », datant de plus de
20 000 ans avant J.-C. et considéré à ce jour comme la première expression de la pensée mathématique au monde. Par  ailleurs, la rumba, rythme musical qui se danse merveilleusement à deux, est née en République démocratique du  Congo et s’est exportée en Amérique latine et dans les Caraïbes avec la traite des Noirs. Le Congo exprime ainsi sa  réprobation face aux destructions malveillantes perpétrées contre les biens culturels à travers le monde et assure de son  soutien la Directrice générale pour les initiatives courageuses qu’elle entreprend en mobilisant la communauté  internationale contre ce fléau.
21.5 Monsieur le Président, les bassins forestiers de la République démocratique du Congo, deuxième poumon au  monde après l’Amazonie, jouent un rôle déterminant dans la lutte contre le changement climatique. C’est pourquoi,  conformément à notre contribution déterminée au niveau national pour la période 2021-2030, nous espérons que la  COP21 qui s’ouvre à la fin de ce mois, ici même à Paris, débouchera sur un accord ambitieux équitable tenant compte  des principes et des dispositions de la Convention-cadre des Nations Unies sur le changement climatique, en particulier  des principes de la responsabilité commune mais différenciée, des capacités respectives et de l’équité. D’où la nécessité  d’accorder à la République démocratique du Congo des appuis compensatoires conséquents pour les énormes  sacrifices qu’elle consent en vue de préserver ses forêts au bénéfice de sa population et de l’humanité toute entière.  Cela nous permettra de dire à nos populations qu’elles peuvent vivre et se développer sans penser nécessairement à  détruire la forêt.
21.6 L’École régionale pour l’aménagement et la gestion intégrée des forêts et territoires tropicaux (ERAIFT) est un  des outils opérationnels pour cette préservation. Nous remercions l’UNESCO, à travers le Conseil exécutif, ainsi que les  dix États parties à l’ERAIFT, d’avoir demandé à la Conférence générale d’approuver la transformation de l’ERAIFT en un  centre de catégorie 2 placé sous l’égide de l’UNESCO afin de la doter d’un statut digne d’un institut d’enseignement et  de recherche. Nous invitons ainsi les distinguées délégations présentes dans cette salle à se joindre à nous pour  appuyer la recommandation du Conseil exécutif.
21.7 La République démocratique du Congo est très sensible au drame que constitue l’afflux de réfugiés. Nous  avons vécu un tel drame en 1994, lorsque nous avons ouvert nos frontières de l’Est pour accueillir plus de deux millions  de réfugiés, à la demande de la communauté internationale. Notre pays a payé et continue, 19 ans après, à payer un  prix fort pour ce geste de générosité. Malgré des contextes différents, aucun pays d’accueil n’est à l’abri des  conséquences d’un afflux de réfugiés. Nous soutenons l’élan de générosité de la communauté internationale en faveur  des déplacés, pendant leurs mouvements et lors de leur l’accueil, mais nous n’oublions pas que le plus important est de  combattre les causes de migration. C’est pourquoi nous soutenons le programme MOST de l’UNESCO dans le secteur  des Sciences sociales et humaines.
21.8 Monsieur le Président, nous ne saurions clore notre propos sans renouveler la foi de la République  démocratique du Congo dans les missions et les actions menées par l’UNESCO pour anticiper sur les événements et  permettre ainsi à notre monde de faire face à ses défis présents et futurs. Je vous remercie.
22. The President:    Thank you very much Your Excellency. Our next speaker is Her Excellency Ms Fleming-Artsen, Minister  Plenipotentiary of Sint Maarten. Your Excellency, you have the floor.
23.1 Ms Fleming-Artsen (Sint Maarten):    Honourable President, Honourable Director-General, your Excellencies, distinguished delegates, ladies and  gentlemen. Mr President, it is an honour and distinct pleasure for me to stand here at this 38th session of the General  Conference of UNESCO and on its 70th anniversary, to share the vision and accomplishments of Sint Maarten. Firstly, I  wish to extend congratulations to you, Mr President, on your election as President of the 38th session of the UNESCO  General Conference. I would also like to extend congratulations to the country of Montserrat, on its admittance as the  tenth Associate Member of UNESCO.
23.2 Mr President, in keeping with the goals of UNESCO, Sint Maarten has met several objectives through focused  initiatives comprising educational, cultural and technological efforts. It is important to note that Sint Maarten as a new  country within the Kingdom of the Netherlands is investing and contributing to the visibility and importance of UNESCO  as a world organization that upholds peace, intercultural understanding, cultural diversity, gender equity, scientific  cooperation and quality education. A number of initiatives such as consultations, trainings and conferences, which were  funded by the Government of Sint Maarten, the Netherlands Ministry of Education, Culture and Science and UNESCO,  have contributed largely to the development of Sint Maarten’s cultural heritage.
23.3 On the issue of cultural heritage, Sint Maarten can sound the drums of its contribution to preparing, building,  restoring and preserving its cultural heritage: numerous goals achieved and to be achieved. Since 2013, much has  transpired on an island that had allowed culture to be taken for granted. Sint Maarten hereby announces proudly that,  regarding its cultural heritage, a national consultation and a joint training programme for the implementation of the  strengthening of capacities of Aruba, Bonaire, Curaçao, Sint Eustatius, Sint Maarten and Suriname, for implementing the  Convention for the Safeguarding of the Intangible Cultural Heritage has led to the drafting of Sint Maarten’s first  intangible cultural heritage inventory list.
23.4 On the topic of disseminating and implementing the core principles of the world heritage and strengthening  institutions, Sint Maarten is creating a local network of heritage experts. In May 2014, the Government of Sint Maarten  acceded to the UNESCO Convention for the Safeguarding of the Intangible Cultural Heritage and looks forward to  submitting its first nomination of the intangible cultural heritage element, the Ponum Dance, which is Sint Maarten’s  dance of emancipation.
23.5 Mr President, building young people’s knowledge and their understanding of cultural heritage is important for the  sustainability, safeguarding and inventory taking of the Sint Maarten cultural heritage. The results of the 2013 Youth  Round Table Conference provided a Youth Desk for Sint Maarten which serves today as a mechanism for youth  empowerment.
23.6 Sint Maarten also reconfirms its continuous support of the sponsorship of the resolution to enforce and reinforce  UNESCO’s strategy in the small island developing States (SIDS). As to communication and information, Sint Maarten  established its ICT policy in 2014, and it is ready to host its first Caribbean Technology and Education Conference (C- TEC), in November 2015, funded by UNESCO, the Government and private sectors of Sint Maarten.
23.7 Various communication tools were developed in partnership with the Korean and Jamaican National  Commissions for UNESCO, which enhance the visibility of the Sint Maarten National Commission for UNESCO, and  these partnerships should be fostered to enhance the capacity of the National Commissions in the Caribbean region.
23.9 UNESCO’s Memory of the World Programme, introduced in Sint Maarteen by the UNESCO Cluster Office in  Kingston and the Secretariat of UNESCO, has inspired the submission of a nomination to the international registry. In  closing, Mr President, the call for the safeguarding of Sint Maarteen’s cultural heritage is urgent and critical. Sint  Maarteen is moving forward to support and invest in its cultural heritage, both tangible and intangible, and will invest in its  documentary and digital heritage, enabling sustainability of our culture with a focus on quality education and science,  youth empowerment, cultural safeguarding and communicative and technological investments. Mr President, Sint  Maarteen continues to maintain its full support to UNESCO for the advancement of its people. I thank you.
24. The President:    Thank you very much, Your Excellency. Our next speaker is His Excellency, Mr Majid bin Ali Alnoaimi, the  Minister of Education of Bahrain. Your Excellency, you have the floor.
(25.1) Mr Alnoaimi (Bahrain) (translation from the Arabic):   In the name of God, the Merciful, the Compassionate. Your Excellencies Mr President of the General Conference,  Mr Chair of the Executive Board, Madam Director-General, heads and members of delegations, ladies and gentlemen, peace  and the mercy and blessings of God be upon you. I am pleased and honoured to greet you on behalf of my country, Bahrain,  and to convey to your esteemed Conference greetings from His Majesty King Hamad bin Isa Al Khalifa, our beloved monarch,  from His Royal Highness, Prince Khalifa bin Salman Al Khalifa, our esteemed Prime Minister, from His Royal Highness, Prince  Salman bin Hamad Al-Khalifa, the Crown Prince, and from the Deputy Commander-in-Chief and First Deputy Prime Minister,  may God preserve and protect him, congratulating His Excellency the President of the General Conference on the confidence  he has won from the Member States. I am also pleased to reiterate my thanks and appreciation to the Director-General, the  Chair of the Executive Board, and members of the Secretariat for their efforts in preparing for this Conference.
(25.2) We meet today as the world around us is brimming with enormous challenges which threaten world peace in  numerous parts of the world, such that it is incumbent upon the Member States to urge UNESCO to play its effective role in all  its fields of competence, in particular, for good-quality, equal-access education for all and the building of a knowledge society.  Bahrain stresses the importance of exerting efforts to develop curricula for all stages of education, including the strengthening  of the values of tolerance and coexistence and everything that is conducive to strengthening human rights. Bahrain continues  to develop its curricula and is stepping up its efforts in this regard. This year, we began to implement a programme for schools  with strengthened human rights teaching. At the same time, we strongly condemn the targeting of educational institutions by  means of acts of terrorism and sabotage, which deprives pupils of their basic right to access to a safe educational  environment; schools in Bahrain suffer from acts of intimidation and terrorism. The number of schools that have been attacked  is more than 453, which constitutes a flagrant violation of human rights principles and texts, which was also stressed in the  Incheon Declaration.
(25.3) Indeed, while we condemn such acts, Bahrain continues to provide obligatory education for all, and endeavours to  ensure a safe environment to pupils so that they may exercise their rights and find an appropriate opportunity to receive more  education. In fact, the partnership between UNESCO and Bahrain is a success story in these two regards. One aspect of this  success is the establishment of the Regional Centre for Information and Communication Technology, which works in
56  coordination with UNESCO and which has held more than 36 activities and trained more than 8,447 individuals from Bahrain  and further afield, given that it is a regional centre.
(25.4) Among the centres of interest in education in Bahrain is expanded digital empowerment and a move to the ranks of  the more highly developed and modernized. We deem these numerous achievements to be part of the close collaboration with  this Organization. Allow us to reiterate our thanks and appreciation to the Executive Board and to UNESCO, which has  awarded for the second time the UNESCO-King Hamad bin Isa Al Khalifa Prize for the Use of Information and Communication  Technologies in Education. This prize has now become a model for developing and encouraging youth and science energies  to make greater contributions. We reiterate our thanks and appreciation to all the States that have supported this prize and  enabled it to be prolonged for a further six years. We reiterate our constant determination to strengthen everything that is  conducive to achieving the global goals of UNESCO in a world full of accelerating developments. As our term on the UNESCO  International Bureau of Education (IBE) Council comes to an end, after years of active contribution during which my country  held the office of Vice-President of the IBE Council, we affirm our support for UNESCO’s efforts to develop educational  curricula everywhere.
(25.5) Our contemporary world, ladies and gentlemen, needs UNESCO to be able, active and open to the whole world in all  its shapes and colours in order to inculcate the foundations of peace and cooperation among humankind as a whole. I reiterate  my thanks to UNESCO, and my country’s support for all UNESCO programmes and strategic plans. Peace and the mercy and  blessings of God be upon you. May you have ever more success!
(27.1) Ms Benghabrit-Remaoun (Algeria) translation from the Arabic:   Mr President of the General Conference, Madam Director-General of UNESCO, Excellencies, ladies and gentlemen,  azzul fallaun “good morning”. Our concern today as a United Nations organization is naturally to ensure that all the children of  the world go to school and enjoy what is necessary to receive an education under optimal conditions. This is a true priority for  my country, as expressed in the report on the right to education in Algeria that was submitted to the United Nations Human  Rights Council at its 37th session in Geneva in 2015, and which clearly highlighted the efforts being exerted by Algeria, and  described the application of the right to education as “commendable”, by implementing UNESCO’s education for all (EFA)  goals and the Millennium Development Goals (MDGs). The need to reflect in depth on the concerns of societies imposes itself  as an absolute necessity so that we may, by means of consultation, find solutions to the tragedies experienced by the children  of the world, such as the children of the Syrian Arab Republic and Sahraoui children. This means that peace and security, in  all countries, constitute the basic prerequisite needed to ensure the education and welfare of children.
(27.2) Mr President, we speak on this topic today out of experience: we have paid a heavy price for our freedoms and the  guarantee of continued development. In the 1990s, we faced a criminal campaign of terrorism, which we combated and  managed to liquidate. It should be noted that thanks to the National Peace and Reconciliation Charter, whose 10th anniversary  we are celebrating this year, which was launched by His Excellency the President of the Republic, we can today announce  from this rostrum that school attendance, which is one of the Millennium Development Goals (MDGs) for 2015, was achieved  in our country ahead of the deadline set in the Millennium Declaration. We have genuinely achieved gender equality.
(27.3) We share our concern with the Director-General regarding the rise of violence that has affected cultural and religious  sites in the Middle East, especially acts which have targeted sites inscribed on the World Heritage List. In this connection, we  thank and congratulate the Director-General for her persistent efforts to bring this issue to the attention of the highest levels of  the United Nations.
(27.4) Mr President, we are today facing great challenges in the educational field: first, the development of a civic sense  and spirit of tolerance among pupils: we need today to teach children how to distinguish between correct and erroneous  information. Secondly, to develop a critical spirit, because now more than ever, if our educational system does not provide the  necessary qualifications to young people so that they are able to select, process and criticize, they will become fertile ground  in which the seeds of hatred, exclusion of the Other and extremism may be sown. Thirdly, to ensure quality education: it is not  sufficient today to open a school for children; rather, we need to guarantee them an education of sound contents and basic  behavioural skills and knowledge which may prepare them for the challenges that will confront them in the future. Fourthly, to  restore consideration to technical and vocational education (TVE) and to master languages, which are basic in the field of  education, and to devise innovative teaching methods. Fifthly, climate change needs to be prepared for by developing  corresponding curricula.
(27.5) Mr President, we congratulate UNESCO on the occasion of the 70th anniversary of its founding. The Organization, in  our view, continues to be a fundamental guarantee for the promotion of peace, dialogue and openness, as it continues,  pursuant to the will of all and our joint action, to provide hope to the coming generations and a bulwark against all forms of  violence and extremism. I thank you, Mr President, Excellencies, ladies and gentlemen, for you kind attention.
28. The President:    Thank you very much Your Excellency. Our next speaker is Her Excellency, Ms Leela Devi Dookun-Luchoomun,  Minister of Education and Human Resources, Tertiary Education and Scientific Research of Mauritius. Your Excellency,  you have the floor.
29.1 Ms Dookun-Luchoomun (Mauritius):    Mr President of the General Conference, Mr Chair of the Executive Board, Madam Director-General of UNESCO,  distinguished delegates, ladies and gentlemen, greetings from the people and Government of the Republic of Mauritius.  Let me start by congratulating you, Mr President, on your election as President of the 38th session of the General  Conference. I have no doubt that you will successfully guide the proceedings of our assembly despite the vast complexity  of the issues to be tackled.
29.2 Mr President, I believe recent milestones make for some legitimate congratulations as our Organization has very  efficaciously positioned our cherished priorities – quality education, women’s empowerment and climate change – in the  new Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). UNESCO’s actions, during the different regional consultations, the World  Education Forum and elsewhere on different international platforms, have resulted in the world today unanimously  saluting the emergence of the global goals. Indeed, building peace in the minds of men can only effectively take place  when people do not suffer from hunger, when their self-worth is not trampled upon and when they feel empowered to  fight against the indignity of extreme poverty.
29.3 The post-2015 development agenda universally endorsed by the global community – including organizations like  the African Union, the Commonwealth, the Conference of Ministers of Education of French speaking countries  (CONFEMEN) – takes the world in the right direction. Mauritius commits itself to supporting the implementation of the  global goals. But we should also learn from the telling lessons resulting from the unfinished business of the  implementation in many countries of the now defunct education for all (EFA) and Millennium Development Goals (MDGs).  We today have a new opportunity for redress. We should give ourselves the means, financial, technical, and  technological, to help all countries attain the new goals set. The Preamble to the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable  Development does in fact emphasize the need for genuine global partnership as well as exchange of experiences and  improved coordination.
29.4 Mr President, my delegation notes with satisfaction that, in keeping with the enunciation to ascribe priority status  to small island developing States (SIDS) in the Medium-Term Strategy for 2014-2021 (37 C/4), efforts will be made for  the coming biennium to expand the coverage of the SIDS-related actions in line with both the global goals and the SIDS  Accelerated Modalities of Action (SAMOA) Pathway.
29.5 Mr President, SIDS cannot be made to pay the price for the excesses of highly developed countries. Rather,  they have to be equipped and supported to fully implement the necessary mitigation measures. Highly developed  countries have to pitch in both financially and technologically, keeping in view the SIDS’ varied pace of development. We  also realize that small island developing States cannot be left on their own, with each individually fighting a common  threat; the future lies in regional and collective action for improved resilience. In this context, I would wish to put on  record our appreciation for the support of UNESCO in facilitating the setting up of a category 2 centre for ocean studies  and innovation in Mauritius.   (The speaker continues in French)
29.6 Monsieur le Président, il est évident que la région de l’océan Indien montre une capacité certaine à mettre en  exergue les possibilités qu’offre l’économie bleue. Le potentiel des ressources marines, avec la riche biodiversité qui le
58  caractérise, pourrait nous mener vers un développement durable basé sur la sécurité alimentaire à travers la mer,  l’accroissement du commerce, l’investissement, ainsi que la connectivité maritime.
29.7 La coopération régionale et sous-régionale reste de mise dans ce contexte et les bureaux régionaux de  l’UNESCO se doivent d’être des facilitateurs et des catalyseurs efficaces.  (L’oratrice poursuit en anglais)
29.8 Mr President, there is universal recognition today of the centrality of education to national growth and  development. We must go beyond words and move to action and make sure our youth have the skills, competencies,  aptitudes and attitudes to cope with the demands of a fast-changing world. We have today several far-reaching reforms  that are being spearheaded right from the pre-primary through to the tertiary and the technical and vocational education  and training (TVET) sectors in Mauritius. The ground has been cleared for the introduction of nine years of continuous  basic education as from 2017. Curriculum and assessment frameworks are being reviewed as are teacher education and  capacity-building programmes. New polytechnics are also being set up for the promotion of technical education. As for  higher education, we are already attracting brand institutions that will help build our intellectual capital and help towards  the development of Mauritius as a regional knowledge hub.
29.9 The setting up of a national school of arts is also one of our major projects. In a modest manner, we are  contributing to the African renaissance as well, by hosting and driving the inter-country quality node for early childhood  education and development at the behest of the Association for the Development of Education in Africa (ADEA). Mr  President, let me end by extending sincere words of appreciation to UNESCO and the United Nations  system for always  being by our side as we upscale our move towards fostering a more just, equitable and inclusive society. Thank you very  much.
30. The President:    Thank you very much Your Excellency. Our next speaker is His Excellency, Íñigo Méndez de Vigo y Montojo,  Minister for Education, Culture and Sports of Spain. Your Excellency, you have the floor.
(31.1) Mr Méndez de Vigo y Montojo (Spain) (translation from the Spanish):   Mr President of the General Conference, Madam Director-General, dear colleagues, as Minister of Education,  Culture and Sport, it is an honour for me to take part on behalf of Spain in this session of the General Conference of UNESCO,  to emphasize from the beginning of my statement my Government’s commitment to the values of active multilateralism. Our  presence on the United Nations Security Council and the strong support expressed recently by His Majesty King Felipe VI  before the General Assembly of the United Nations for the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development demonstrate the  strength of that commitment. In this spirit, Spain wishes to continue to participate as a Member of the Executive Board of  UNESCO: we are a candidate for election to this body and we look forward to your support. Mr President, dear colleagues,  Goal 4 of the 2030 Agenda is “Ensure inclusive and equitable quality education and promote lifelong learning opportunities for  all”. This same aspiration guides our education and cooperation policies.
(31.2) Spain has now left behind the greatest crisis it has seen for decades, thanks to the development of a reform agenda  undertaken by the Government, which has laid the foundations for economic and social stability and led to well-founded  expectations of inflation-free sustainable growth, which would be something new for Spain. The country has grown to 3.4% of  the GDP of the Eurozone and is creating one out of every two new jobs in the area. Education reform has had a central role in  the Government’s reform agenda, because the country’s statistics for youth unemployment and early school dropout were very  high in comparison with those in neighbouring European countries. A new law on education was launched in 2013 to promote  improved quality in the education system, based on the conviction that education is the tool for more and better opportunities  for the future available to new generations, and because education is the key to combating social exclusion. We have already  achieved results through this education strategy: data for the fourth quarter of 2015 show falls of six percentage points in the  rate of early school dropout and of 10% in youth unemployment in comparison with 2011.
(31.3) In this regard, it should be noted that my Government, faced with the current migration crisis in Europe, has  implemented a strategy for the integration of refugees through a number of education programmes. As we see it, quality  education for our young people is the guarantee of their personal and professional development and of equal opportunities. As  the Minister representing Andorra has also mentioned, we must improve quality in the teaching profession and support the  work of instructors and educators. No improvement can be achieved in the education system unless teachers play an active,  leading role. Dear colleagues, this may be said more loudly but not more clearly.
(31.4) In the area of culture, UNESCO is a vital tool for the preservation of the world’s tangible and intangible heritage.  Spain has 44 properties included in the World Heritage list, 14 on the Representative List of the Intangible Cultural Heritage of  Humanity and five documentary heritage inscriptions on the Memory of the World Register. For 30 years, we have been  cooperating with our Ibero-American partners on the preservation of historical heritage; we have also strongly supported the  African World Heritage Fund, and we welcome its tenth anniversary. The task of heritage preservation, however, is huge,  particularly in the face of premeditated attacks and acts of terrorism and violence against persons and their cultural identity.  Spain, together with Italy, has therefore promoted a decision for a strengthening of UNESCO’s role in the protection of cultural  goods in case of conflict; in that context I wish to thank the Director-General and her team for the studies they are conducting  towards a new global strategy.
(31.5) My Government’s commitment also extends to the Convention on the Protection of the Underwater Cultural Heritage  and, in the area of science, to the need to respond to global challenges through major scientific programmes for sustainable  development, including the Global Geoparks Network, to which Spain contributes through 10 exponents. Spain also supports  the proposal submitted by France, Morocco and Peru to the twenty-first session of the United Nations Climate Change  Conference (COP 21), to be held in Paris. It is at times of uncertainty and conflict that it is particularly important to ensure  freedom of expression, access to information and the work of communication and information professionals, and Spain will  endeavour to do so. Although I love classical music, Mr President, I understand that the music we are now hearing announces  the end of my statement. The 400th anniversary of the death of Miguel de Cervantes, the author of Don Quixote, is  approaching and we will mark it next year, together with the anniversary of Shakespeare’s death. I shall conclude by recalling  some words by Cervantes: “The pen is the language of the soul; as the concepts that in it are generated, such will be its  writings”. “The language of the soul”, that is UNESCO, a fine concept; those ideas and values remain the basis of the  fundamental principles which this Organization has pursued for 70 years, and which Spain will pursue with you over the  coming 70 years, at the least. Thank you for your attention.
32. The President:    Thank you very much Your Excellency. Our next speaker is His Excellency, Mr Šarūnas Birutis, Minister of  Culture of Lithuania. Your Excellency you have the floor.
33.1 Mr Birutis (Lithuania):    Mr President of the General Conference, Madam Director-General, Excellencies, ladies and gentlemen, I am  honoured to represent Lithuania at this session of the General Conference, when we celebrate the 70th anniversary of  UNESCO. For decades, this Organization has defended an inclusive vision for humanity, safeguarded a place for culture,  education and science within a wider political agenda. This year we celebrate yet another UNESCO achievement: the
60  role of culture, education, human rights, and women empowerment was clearly highlighted in the 2030 Agenda for  Sustainable Development.
33.2 Today, though, we face tough realities: millions of people are displaced, entire countries and regions  destabilized. These are the consequences of human rights and the rule of law being violated, violence being escalated  on religious grounds, and cultural heritage targeted as a symbol of “otherness”.  UNESCO has done a great deal of work  in promoting the right to practise one’s culture as a fundamental right. Culture is not just a civilized embellishment of life;  it binds societies and helps to overcome divisions, it develops solidarity, empathy and innovation. It is the lifeblood of  communities, no less important than health or wealth. And if maintained and developed with care, it may become a real  resource for the wellbeing of individuals. The role of culture in Lithuania has been constantly strengthened. We recognize  the cultural sector as standing at the crossroads of social advancement and innovation.
33.3 Ladies and gentlemen, the digital age changes the media landscape. Together with our partners, including  UNESCO, we are constantly looking for ways to renew our commitment in promoting freedom of speech, freedom of  access and a multi-stakeholder approach to the Internet. Recently, Lithuania has become an official member of the  Freedom Online Coalition. We welcome UNESCO’s active engagement in the field of freedom of speech and safety of  journalists. As a non-permanent member of the United Nations Security Council, Lithuania has been strongly committed  to promoting international norms regarding the safety of journalists and impunity.
33.4 Distinguished guests, Lithuania sees a significant role of UNESCO in yet another regard. We express our deep  concern about the situation in the Crimea and the city of Sevastopol in Ukraine, where human rights are being violated  by the de facto authorities, where dissenting voices, including those of Crimean Tatars, are being silenced. We would  welcome a more active involvement of UNESCO in Crimea and trust the Organization will step up its efforts to provide  information on the developments in the region. Lithuania stands ready to support UNESCO in this and every other future  endeavour. I thank you for your attention.
(35.1) Mr Al-Dakhil (Saudi Arabia) (translation from the Arabic):   Mr President of the General Conference, Mr Chair of the Executive Board, Madam Director-General, ladies and  gentlemen, heads of delegations, brothers and sisters, peace and the mercy and blessings of God be upon you. I am pleased  to convey to you how happy I am to be taking part in this great cultural conference, at which, every two years, we chart the  future of our venerable Organization, UNESCO. Saudi Arabia appreciates the important role UNESCO plays on the  international stage. This has been our unwavering approach ever since we participated, 70 years ago, in the establishment of  the Organization, with clear and conscious guidance from the founder of Saudi Arabia, King Abdulaziz Al Saud, may God have  mercy upon him. We all hope that the Organization will remain able to pursue its humanitarian mission, especially under the  trying circumstances currently being experienced by the world. If the Organization has gone through difficult financial  circumstances in recent times, we hope that these circumstances will soon come to an end and that the Organization may  once again be able to realize its goals and carry out its programmes. Saudi Arabia will continue its moral and financial support  to enable the Organization to perform its tasks in optimum fashion. One of the most important forms of such support was the  visit paid by the Custodian of the Two Holy Mosques, King Salman bin Abdulaziz, to the Organization in early September last  year, in which he stressed the strong relationship between Saudi Arabia and UNESCO. Saudi Arabia, as the heart of the  Islamic world, welcomes all efforts aimed at achieving the humanitarian knowledge-related and cultural goals of the  Organization. The leadership of my country has spoken on that topic in all international fora, and has put its views into practice  by contributing more than $90 million over the past three decades, from which 86 developing countries have benefited, a rate  that is much higher than the rate of those targeted by the United Nations.
(35.2) Ladies and gentlemen, Jerusalem has been and remains a central focal point in this world which must not be  disregarded; nor should we be concerned by the tragedies of the world without being concerned by the tragedy of Jerusalem,  namely the attempts by the occupation force to modify its diverse physiognomy and to obliterate its multiple identities. My  country therefore rejects what is taking place there on a daily basis both in broad daylight and behind the scenes in order to  change the landmarks of the holy city. It is truly regrettable that 191 EX/Decision 9, which calls for the dispatch of a monitoring  mission to Jerusalem, has not yet been implemented owing to Israeli procrastination and a lack of effective pressure from  influential countries. The delegation of Saudi Arabia stresses to the heads of the Organization’s three organs the importance of  bringing pressure to bear for the immediate implementation of this decision.
(35.3) Ladies and gentlemen, owing to the importance my country attaches to education, Saudi Arabia and UNESCO  cooperated on establishing the Regional Centre for Quality and Excellence in Education. In this connection, we reiterate the  importance of developing education in order to strengthen lifelong learning opportunities. Education is the optimum solution to  the problems of poverty, ignorance and disease, and the ensuing conflicts which hamper the achievement of peace and global  coexistence. Keenly aware of our humanitarian and fraternal duty, and with guidance from the wise leadership of the  Custodian of the Two Holy Mosques, King Salman bin Abdulaziz, may God preserve him, and of His Highness the Crown  Prince Mohammed bin Nayef and His Highness the Heir Apparent to the Crown Prince, Prince Mohammed bin Salman, may  God preserve them both, in order to stand together with the Syrian and Yemeni peoples against the backdrop of the twin  crises affecting those two fraternal peoples, Saudi Arabia has hosted hundreds of thousands of them, together with their  families, and awarded them tens of thousands of study grants; they have been accepted into all levels of education, in support  of a future of education and a life of security, which will keep them safe from sources of harm, danger and deviation, and  likewise help to train specialized scientists from among them in order, God willing, to rebuild their countries once the present  crises have ended.
(35.4) Mr President, in conclusion, I am pleased to commend the Youth Forum held by UNESCO just before the General  Conference for the leaders of the future, in partnership with the King Salman Youth Center and the Prince Mohammed bin  Salman Foundation “Misk” and the effective partnership of the youth, both boys and girls, of my country, who look forward to a  world which is more diverse, tolerant and understanding of the requirements of the age in which they live. I should like, at the  end of my statement, to congratulate the Republic of Kosovo on having garnered positive support from the Executive Board for  accession to full membership of UNESCO. I hope that the General Conference will approve this recommendation, so that we  may together welcome this republic which has suffered greatly during the Balkan wars. In conclusion, we urge that the  dialogue among civilizations file remain active and open, for this is one of the most important and enlightening aspects in the  work of the Organization in its endeavour to inculcate a culture of tolerance, coexistence and mutual respect among various  cultures and civilizations. Peace and the mercy and blessings of God be upon you.
36. The President:    Thank you very much Your Excellency. Our next speaker is His Excellency, Mr Nurul Islam Nahid, Minister for  Education of Bangladesh. Your Excellency, you have the floor.
37.1 Mr Nahid (Bangladesh):    Mr. President, Madam Director-General, Excellencies, ladies and gentlemen, I feel honoured to address this  august gathering at this 38th session of the General Conference of UNESCO. Congratulations, Mr President, on your  election. We assure you of our support.
37.2 Over the last 70 years, UNESCO has been working as the conscience of the United Nations. As we all know,  UNESCO is an idea-generating entity. What generates ideas in a human body? It is the brain. If we consider the United  Nations system a human body, UNESCO is obviously its brain. So what has this brain been doing during the last 70  years? From education for sustainable development to intercultural dialogue, from promoting gender equality or human  rights to protecting underwater heritage, from biosphere reserves network to a declaration on bioethics, from protecting  endangered languages to developing tsunami early-warning systems, UNESCO is always there to address the most  pressing needs of humanity of our planet. And almost everywhere, UNESCO’s involvement makes a difference.
37.3 But have we done enough to make this world a peaceful one? A world free from hunger and diseases, free from  inequality, conflicts, chaos and calamities, both natural and man-made? We have certainly achieved some successes in  all these areas, but much more needs to be done. The year 2015 is indeed a landmark year. It is the final year for the
62  Millennium Development Goals (MDGs) and the education for all (EFA) goals and also the year of adoption of the  Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). The Secretary-General of the United Nations has rightly said that “the global  mobilization behind the Millennium Development Goals has produced the most successful anti-poverty movement in  history”. Since 1990, the number of people living in extreme poverty and the under-five mortality rate, have declined by  more than half, and the maternal mortality ratio has declined by 45% worldwide.
37.4 As regards EFA goals, there has been remarkable progress across the globe. The number of out-of-school  children and adolescents has declined by almost half since 2000. Great progress has been achieved in gender parity,  particularly in primary education. Governments’ efforts to improve quality of education have also increased. However, the  progress is uneven and substantial inequalities exist between countries and within countries. Almost all of the 800 million  people living in extreme poverty and suffering from hunger live in developing countries. About 16,000 children die each  day before celebrating their fifth birthday, mostly from preventable diseases. The maternal mortality ratio in developing  regions is still 14 times higher than in the developed regions. In spite of progress, EFA goals remain unachieved. There  are still 58 million children out of school worldwide and around 100 million children who do not complete primary  education. Gender disparity persists in a third of the countries.
37.5 Within our countries, big gaps still exist between the poorest and richest households. Millions of people are  lagging behind because of their sex, age, disability, ethnicity or geographic location. Inequality in education has  increased, putting the poor, disadvantaged and marginalized in a challenging situation. Given this backdrop of MDGs  and education for all, a new, universal set of goals, targets and indicators, Sustainable Development Goals, have been  adopted. The SDGs incorporate the unfinished agenda of MDGs and EFA and expand those further. Achieving SDGs  would be challenging indeed if we are unable to boost research to tackle climate change impacts on small island  developing States and other vulnerable countries such as Bangladesh. Already the world has been introduced with a  relatively new term – climate-change refugees. If we are not sufficiently serious about reducing carbon emissions and  stopping the rise of global temperature, the developed world might have to face a huge influx of climate-change refugees  in the near future and that will certainly hamper achieving SDGs in the stipulated time. We are hopeful that the twenty- first session of the United Nations Climate Change Conference (COP 21) will address all these issues and will reach a  consensus to tackle climate change impact.
37.6 Mr. President, the world is ever changing and the new world is facing complex and transnational new challenges.  Building on our experience and lessons, we must respond to the demands of new situations, while remaining true to our  long-term commitments. Thank you, Mr President.
(39.1) Ms Ainina (Mauritania) (translation from the Arabic):   In the name of God, the Merciful, the Compassionate, God bless his noble Prophet. Mr President, Your Excellency  Director-General of UNESCO, Your Excellencies ministers and heads of delegations, Your Excellencies ambassadors of  Member States, experts, ladies and gentlemen, allow me at the outset to say how happy I am to be among you under the  dome of UNESCO, which symbolizes our collective wisdom and is the greatest and noblest embodiment of the message of  humankind on earth; UNESCO is the bearer of an eternal global message. I also congratulate the Director-General and staff of  the Organization on their good performance in disseminating the message of peace and brotherhood all over the globe. Our  venerable Organization has been the foremost champion, over 70 years, of the values which gather together and disseminate  confidence and pride to unstable souls, and hope to individuals of threatened cultural identities, and preserve outstanding  diversity in ways of life and among peoples. It is a message which is deserving of the efforts that you are exerting, especially  at present, when numerous cultures and peoples are suffering from the woes of war, conflict, oppression and rejection of the  Other. On the basis of and relying on this principle, our country has this year launched a public policy aimed at raising the  profile of individuals by means of integrated programmes which ensure general individual and collective freedoms, and which  endeavour to encourage growth and combat poverty by expanding the national productive base in the fields of culture and  youth, which will definitely contribute to consolidating the culture of peace and constant dialogue among all components of our  society in order to participate in the development effort.
(39.2) Mr President, Your Excellency Madam Director-General, distinguished delegates, Mauritania is, and has always  been, by virtue of its singular geographical position between the two great groups of North Africa and West Africa, a bridge  over which the civilizations pass between North and South Sahara, whose inhabitants have a culture of peace and tolerance  among the peoples of the region. In the tense context of today, our country is continuing its efforts to strengthen its role as a  vital link within the space of its multiple affiliations: Arab, African, Islamic and international, on the basis of its duty to champion  just issues, and its conviction that dialogue is the optimum means for defusing conflicts, addressing crises, and encouraging  mediation in order to find just outcomes from the tremors experienced by our world.
(39.3) Mr President, Your Excellency Madam Director-General, in the field of culture, being convinced of the role that  culture should play in sustainable development, as I said earlier, Mauritania has adopted just this year an ambitious cultural  reform which will help to protect its national cultural identity, not only as a basis for cohesion among all the constituent  elements of our people, but also with a view to making culture an effective contributor to development through the richness it  provides as well as through job opportunities. The national plan for cultural development includes the announcement of a  public policy in the field of culture which should lead to a comprehensive review of the legal system and an institutional  framework for culture containing the necessary supervisory structures for various cultural activities and effective training for  supervisors and technicians working in this field, involve local associations and civil society organizations in implementing this  policy, carry out large-scale cultural projects aimed at protecting various elements of our cultural heritage and achieving  tangible development with regard to the performance of cultural activities locally, and lay the foundations of cultural industries  capable of creating an appreciable number of job opportunities, and supporting private cultural production by establishing an  effective system of easy loans and developing activities and programmes capable of creating a new dynamic in the field of  cultural work. Among the components of the national plan for cultural development, the national plan for the revival of the  values heritage is of particular importance for us. It constitutes, Mr President, Your Excellency Madam Director-General, and  distinguished delegates, an initiative which Mauritania is placing at the disposal of the international community so that we may  all, by developing the ethical human heritage, help to reduce the gap between rights and opportunities, and hence counter all  forms of discrimination, exclusion, extremism, fanaticism, and local and trans-boundary conflicts.
(39.4) When we adopt universal values, which are also our own values, we contribute to the effort to ensure the universality  of the rights and duties of which our Organization is proud on the one hand, and the equality of all in their humanity on the  other hand, which will enable the peoples and civilizations to talk among themselves and to listen to one another, be tolerant  about their differences, and come together within the scope of what is common to them, the opposite of the clash and aversion  of civilizations that the hawks of contemporary history propagate. The generalization and consecration of the values of  tolerance, mutual assistance and respect for the Other, and the adoption of those values as the foundation of better  coexistence is what we seek to apply in our own country, because the reaffirmation of our identity through the heritage of joint  values will no doubt enable us to strengthen our feeling of belonging and pride in ourselves, not as a rejection of the inevitable  modernization that is emerging and imposing itself, but as an expression of a component which highlights the specificity of the  humanization of the individual within the universality of globalization which is becoming apparent, unfortunately, in a mould  which works actively to obliterate all specificities.
(39.5) Mauritania has set itself very ambitious goals in the field of education, and devoted considerable resources to  building schools, generalizing school attendance, encouraging excellence, and strengthening teacher training. In order to give
64  greater impetus to these efforts, the President of the Republic has proclaimed this year the Year of Education, and has made  education a priority for funding and investment, and central to reflection on and the search for solutions which may give it the  necessary impetus. I take this opportunity to thank UNESCO for the support and assistance it has provided to our country in  this field.
40.1 The President:    Thank you very much Your Excellency. Our next speaker is His Excellency Mr Andrés Arauz, Minister  Coordinator for Knowledge and Human Talent of Ecuador. Your Excellency, you have the floor.
(41.1) Mr Arauz (Ecuador) (translation from the Spanish):   Mr President, Madam Director-General, Mr Chair of the Executive Board, officials and delegates, I bring you  greetings from our President, Rafael Correa Delgado. To eradicate poverty is not an act of charity but of justice, and the real
65  basis for ensuring that justice lies in the full enjoyment of all human rights. To restrict anyone’s access to education, culture,  science, technology and information is to condemn that person to one of the most appalling forms of slavery: ignorance.
(41.2)  Ending poverty is not merely a technical matter; it is above all a matter of political will, which is now a moral  imperative in Ecuador. As President Rafael Correa mentioned at the latest session of the General Assembly of the United  Nations, the country will therefore meet the 21 targets of the Millennium Development Goals. Of the 21, some 20 have already  been met ahead of schedule. In this framework, human talent and knowledge are pillars, not for the eradication of poverty but  for transforming the country’s productive and cognitive matrix. If we do not generate our own knowledge we are condemned to  depend on that which others produce, in both material and epistemic terms. Monsignor Leonidas Proaño, our liberation  theologist, advocated urgent literacy programmes for history’s most marginalized social sectors, such as indigenous people  and the poor, so that they themselves could undertake the processes of change.
(41.3)  Ecuador is a leading country in South America in terms of its commitment to education, which its people believe to  be the best possible investment. Its education system has been restructured thanks to a model of decentralized management,  together with a new legal framework defining education as a constitutional right and a public service, tripling the budget for  non-university education. The results of the Third Regional Comparative and Explanatory Study (TERCE) reflected the  considerable progress in Ecuador’s educational performance: it is the country which has achieved the most rapid and  significant improvement. Per head of population, it is also the country in Latin America that grants the greatest number of  educational scholarships. We have provided some 11,000 scholarships to young Ecuadorian nationals, enabling them to study  at the world’s best universities. My Government has also established four “Emblematic Universities”: Yachay Tech University  (located in Yachay City of Knowledge), Ikiam Amazon University, to study our biodiversity, the University of the Arts, and the  National University of Education, which is of key importance for the quality of schooling.
(41.4)  To encourage countries to turn to genuine international justice which will not protect the commercial exploitation of  cultural property – particularly by the developed countries in defiance of the just claims of our countries – Ecuador calls on  UNESCO and the entire international community to genuinely promote the fight against the illicit trade in cultural property. The  countries of the global South, making a historic demand, have proposed the Operational Guidelines for the implementation of  the 1970 Convention on the Means of Prohibiting and Preventing the Illicit Import, Export and Transfer of Ownership of  Cultural Property, which seek to give a new direction to progress in combating this evil which afflicts humanity. We have had to  wait four decades for this instrument. There can be no free movement of capital and goods while people are faced with so  many restrictions, as has been shown by the humanitarian crisis of refugees in recent months. Consequently, the participation  of Ecuador and other Latin American countries in UNESCO, through the Management of Social Transformations (MOST)  Programme, has been vitally important in positioning, within the post-2015 agenda, human mobility as a cornerstone in  guaranteeing universal citizenship. As President Rafael Correa has said, “Human beings are not illegal!” Pope Francis, in his  Encyclical on the environment, stated that “Humanity is called to recognize the need for changes of lifestyle, production and  consumption”, because if it does not, it would worsen the crisis of civilization we are already facing. The answer is to place the  human person at the centre of development, in harmony with nature, and prevent the privatization of knowledge and of the  technology we need to combat climate change.
(41.5)  We welcome the Executive Board’s proposal for the proclamation by this 38th session of the General Conference of  the International Day for the Conservation of the Mangrove Ecosystem, an initiative presented by Ecuador. It is one of the  most important coastal ecosystems, given its role in the maintenance and conservation of biodiversity, but it is also among the  most seriously threatened in the world. Ecuador aspires to be part of the Global Geoparks Network, with two flagship projects:  the Tungurahua volcano, currently erupting, and the Imbabura Geopark; these will be a major incentive for sustainable  development in the respective parts of the country. Today, more than ever, we must consider the establishment of a culture of  peace. UNESCO is currently facing a situation unprecedented in the twenty-first century, a violent conflict with growing  intolerance and destruction of the cultural heritage of humanity. Ecuador believes that UNESCO’s mandate is more significant  than ever before, to set out towards achieving sustainable, just, equitable and inclusive development for all peoples. As a Latin  American minister, I invoke the Liberator Simón Bolívar, who said: “The unity of our peoples is not the mere illusion of men,  but inexorable decree of destiny”. This maxim is our flag and our future. Thank you very much.
42. The President:    Thank you very much Your Excellency. Our next speaker is His Excellency, Mr Jehyson Guzmán, Vice-Minister  of Popular Power for University Education, Science and Technology of the Bolivarian Republic of Venezuela. You have  the floor, Your Excellency.
(43.1) Mr Guzmán (Bolivarian Republic of Venezuela) (translation from the Spanish):   The great Andrés Bello once said that it was not enough to be proud of political freedom if one did not also have  cultural freedom. Our immortal President Hugo Chávez said it many times: without culture there is no revolution. Mr President  of the General Conference, Madam Director-General of UNESCO, ladies and gentlemen:
(43.2) I bring you fraternal greetings from the homeland of the Liberator Simón Bolívar and of President Hugo Chávez, in  the name of the Venezuelan people and of our President, Nicolás Maduro; first though, I wish to express our condolences to  the Government and people of the Russian Federation for the terrible air disaster in Egypt on 31 October.
(43.3) As we celebrate the 70th anniversary of the founding of UNESCO and the bicentennial of Liberator Simón Bolívar’s  “Letter from Jamaica”, Venezuela reiterates its firm commitment to peace as the fundamental principle of this Organization. In
1999, President Hugo Chávez said: “We have come to this stage of encounters and struggles of all the cultures and paths of  humanity. UNESCO is exactly that: seeking for and fighting for a better future”. It was in that same context that he denounced  the major patterns of inequity caused by the voraciousness of the capitalist model, warning against the United States’  imperialist ambitions to destroy and compromise our people’s education, science, technology and culture. The numerous  social conquests of the Bolivarian revolution, compatible with UNESCO’s universal model, have positioned Venezuela as a  worldwide example, and this has been ratified by its recent re-election to the Human Rights Council of the United Nations.  Venezuela has achieved the education for all goals, promoting South-South cooperation, high-quality, socially-relevant,  inclusive education and the sharing of good educational practices. We are grateful to the Director-General for her support for  strengthening the UNESCO International Institute for Higher Education in Latin America and the Caribbean (IESALC), to
67  continue making higher education a priority in Latin America and the Caribbean. We celebrate UNESCO’s declaration, 10  years ago, of Venezuela as an “illiteracy-free zone”, thanks to the implementation of the Robinson Mission, which encouraged  the people to study from the first to the sixth year of basic education. This was followed by the Ribas missions, to complete  secondary education; and it was the Sucre Mission which gave people access to university education. Today we can affirm  that the Venezuelan education system includes over 10 million students, a third of the population, making our entire country a  school.
(43.4) In 2013, the Canaimita Project was recognized by UNESCO as good educational practice. We have now delivered  over four million portable microcomputers to the country’s children. Venezuela is presenting to UNESCO a series of education  policies and good practices in public administration, which we are glad to share with the peoples of the world. These include  the University Canaima Plan, an innovative practice in national public policy to support quality education and access to  technology. In this context, we have so far delivered, free of charge, a total of 170,000 tablet computers to university students.  The Latin American Medical School is becoming an alternative, benefiting over 4,000 students from 48 of the countries of the  world; the Sucre Mission, preselected by UNESCO in 2009 as one of the best practices in youth policies and programmes in  Latin America, representing an opportunity for access to university education; and lastly, the national training programme for  integrated community medicine, a policy of the Venezuelan State in the field of training for health care.
(43.5) The democratization of information and communications in Venezuela is being strengthened with the creation of  over 600 community radio stations and the massive use of technology and the installation of 915 “Infocentros”, an initiative  rewarded with the UNESCO-King Hamad Bin Isa Al Khalifa Prize for the Use of Information and Communication Technologies  in Education; these centres provide the Venezuelan people with training, instruction, technological literacy and free Internet  access.
(43.6) Venezuelan culture represents a strategic cross-cutting policy for the Government of the Bolivarian Republic, for the  preservation of the values of national identity, the preservation of heritage and the safeguarding of indigenous languages. The  National System of Youth and Children’s Orchestras, recognized as UNESCO Artists for Peace, and the inclusion of the  Dancing Devils of Corpus Christi, the Parranda de San Pedro de Guarenas y Guatire and the oral tradition of the Mapoyo  indigenous people as intangible heritage of humanity are further recognitions from UNESCO for the achievements of the  Bolivarian revolution.
(43.7) One major achievement of our diplomacy of peace lies in the momentum and dynamism of the Community of Latin  American and Caribbean States (CELAC), the Bolivarian Alliance for the Peoples of Our America (ALBA), the Union of South  American Nations (UNASUR) and the Southern Common Market (MERCOSUR), in which we have jointly developed  numerous cooperation programmes and projects which have achieved significant results in UNESCO’s fields of competence.
(43.8) Aware of the challenges represented by the launch of the 2030 Agenda, and recognizing the significant progress  made by Venezuela in fulfilling the Millennium Development Goals (MDGs) and the objectives proposed in the Incheon  Declaration, we endorse the vision of changing lives through education, leaving no-one behind, which reflects our most  profound Bolivarian principles of forging a better world. Ladies and gentlemen: the Bolivarian Government of President  Nicolás Maduro reaffirms its commitment to preserving the legacy of President Chávez, safeguarding the achievements of our  people in the area of education and culture as the property of the revolution. In conclusion, we reiterate our condemnation  before the international community of the imperial aggression which has been inflicted on the Government of President  Nicolás Maduro through an economic boycott which seeks to destroy the Bolivarian revolution of the Venezuelan people,  infringing the fundamental rights of the men and women of the homeland of Bolívar and Chávez. Ladies and gentlemen,  regarding Obama’s decree, we declare with the strength of morality: Venezuela is not a threat, it is a source of hope. On  behalf of the Venezuelan people, thank you very much.
44. The President:    Thank you very much Your Excellency. Our next speaker is His Excellency Mr Rumen Alexandrov, Deputy  Minister of Foreign Affairs of Bulgaria. Your Excellency, you have the floor.
45.1 Mr Alexandrov (Bulgaria):   Mr President of the General Conference, Madam Director-General, Excellencies, ladies and gentlemen, may I  take this opportunity, Mr President of the General Conference, to congratulate you on your election and wish you a very  successful term of office. Let me also associate my delegation with the statement on behalf of the European Union to be  delivered later on in the debate.
45.2 During the last two years since the 37th session of the General Conference we, Member States and Secretariat,  have made remarkable efforts and achieved tangible results in pursuing our major goals: continue the reform actions for  the sake of a more focused and efficient UNESCO and harness the potential of all to prepare for the 2030 Sustainable  Development Agenda. UNESCO managed to successfully position itself in the preparation of the post-2015 development  agenda in the areas of quality education, science, integration of culture as an engine for sustainable development. In fact,  the whole of UNESCO’s mandate is part of the Sustainable Development Goals and targets. This is a clear recognition  that today UNESCO is needed more than ever before. And UNESCO needs the commitment of all countries, large and  small, in order to deliver successfully and efficiently.
45.3 My delegation wishes to congratulate the Director-General for her commitment in pursuing these objectives  through strong advocacy and efforts for a more coordinated interaction with other United Nations agencies. We also  commend her for the continued engagement in reforming UNESCO. Be assured, Madam Director-General, of Bulgaria’s  unreserved support for all your endeavours.
45.4 We must now endorse the Education 2030 Framework for Action for the implementation of the Sustainable  Development Goal (SDG) on education. And we should remain as committed as we were before to complete the  unfinished business regarding the six education for all (EFA) goals. We commend the inclusion in the Framework of the  affirmation of education as a basic human right and higher education as a global public good.
45.5 Bulgaria supports in particular the holistic and humanistic vision of the Education 2030 Agenda, which  understands education as “inclusive and as crucial in promoting democracy and human rights and enhancing global
68  citizenship, tolerance and civic engagement as well as sustainable development [… as a facilitator of] intercultural  dialogue [fostering] respect for cultural, religious and linguistic diversity, which are vital for achieving social cohesion and  justice”.
45.6 In this regard, we reiterate our firm belief that education is key, along with other approaches, to address the  challenge of increased recruitment and radicalization of youth on social media, in communities and in schools. That is  why our Government has supported at its very inception the proposal for the high-level conference on the use of Internet  as a tool for development of youth against all forms of extremism and radicalism. It is with the same conviction that  Bulgaria supports the United States’ initiative for the side event on 6 November 2015 to address the issue of using  education to combat violent extremism.
45.7 In a similar vein, my Government supported the project “Empowering youth in the post-conflict situation of Mali  for reconciliation, peace and development through an increased access to, and use of, new information and  communication technologies (ICT)”. UNESCO has long recognized the power of increased access to information as a  vehicle and tool for positive social transformation, peace and development, for making knowledge societies inclusive.  The promotion of access to information and media for girls and young women in Burkina Faso is yet another UNESCO  activity that enjoyed Bulgaria’s support.
45.8 Within the Priority Africa activities of UNESCO, Bulgaria assisted the Organization in a range of other activities,  related to the Slave Route Project, capacity-building in the protection of intangible heritage, as well as on the key topics  of the General History of Africa. In 2014, UNESCO received the award for the development of an e-learning tool,  financed by my Government, focusing on women’s role in African history. My country’s contribution to all these activities,  within its limited resources, is the expression of our understanding that solidarity should guide all UNESCO’s action to  overcome the challenges we all face.
45.9  Ladies and gentlemen, the last two years have seen an unprecedented rise in terrorism, violent extremism and  radicalization that attempt to strike at the very heart of human civilization and the values we share. The destruction of  cultural heritage, the “cultural cleansing” and the trafficking that affect the common heritage and all religions are an  affront to all humankind. We need a resolute and coordinated approach in order to find immediate as well as long-term  sustainable solutions to this crisis. Bulgaria is pleased to see UNESCO and its Director-General at the forefront of  initiatives and activities aimed at alleviating the current situation, particularly in Iraq and the Syrian Arab Republic. The  list of your actions in this area, Madam Director-General, is long, impressive and well documented. Bulgaria commends  you for your leadership in harnessing the potential and expertise of the United Nations and other intergovernmental  bodies, actors and civil society to promote cultural diversity and protect cultural heritage. Thank you very much.
46. The President:    Thank you very much, Your Excellency. Our next speaker is His Excellency Mr István Mikola, State Secretary of  Foreign Affairs and Trade of Hungary. Your Excellency, you have the floor.
47.1 Mr Mikola (Hungary):   Mr President, Excellencies, ladies and gentlemen, it is an honour to address the General Conference today.  UNESCO, and we, Member States and governments, are facing enormous challenges. These, however, must be seen  as opportunities, to concentrate our efforts within the Organization in these critical times. A crucial step in this direction  was the unanimous adoption of the General Assembly resolution on saving the cultural heritage of Iraq. We especially  welcome the “#Unite4Heritage” campaign to build support for the protection of cultural heritage endangered by extremist  groups. To this end, we recommend the establishment of a new common database with the coordination of UNESCO  that could function as a collection of currently available documentation of endangered cultural heritage values. In this  context, it is key to take effective measures concerning the return of illegally exported or imported cultural goods.  Hungary actively participates in this international information exchange process. Hence, Hungary is a candidate for  membership of UNESCO’s Intergovernmental Committee for Promoting the Return of Cultural Property to its Countries of  Origin or its Restitution in Case of Illicit Appropriation. We appreciate your support for the Hungarian candidacy.
47.2 In addition to tangible cultural heritage, we are especially committed to the preservation of intangible cultural  heritage and UNESCO’s Convention for the Safeguarding of the Intangible Cultural Heritage, as indicated by the fact that  Hungary was elected member of the Intergovernmental Committee for the Safeguarding of the Intangible Cultural  Heritage and its Bureau in 2014. Reflecting our particular interest in sharing our tested and proven techniques regarding  intangible cultural heritage, Hungary has submitted the nomination “Safeguarding of the folk music heritage by the  Kodály concept” to the register of best safeguarding practices and we are hoping for a favourable decision in 2016.
47.3 Ladies and gentlemen, UNESCO-related anniversaries prove to be successful in Hungary. This year we are  observing the 150th anniversary of the death of Ignác Semmelweis and the 200th anniversary of the birth of Flóris Rómer.  Next month, an exhibition in honour of these outstanding Hungarian individuals will be on display in Salle Miró of  UNESCO. As for the future, I would like to ask for your support during this session for Hungary’s anniversary  nominations: the 1700th anniversary of the birth of Saint Martin of Tours in 2016; and the 50th anniversary of the death  of Zoltán Kodály in 2017.
47.4 Distinguished delegates, Hungary has actively participated in, and thus warmly welcomes, the adoption of the
2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development. We are convinced that the implementation of Sustainable Development  Goals (SDGs) requires holistic, forward-looking policies created both nationally and internationally. The United Nations  system has a very important role to play in providing guidance and essential tools which contribute to policy design and  implementation in the fields covered by the SDGs. Hungary is looking forward to the discussion within UNESCO on the  implementation of the 2030 Agenda in all fields.
47.5 Water is undoubtedly at the core of sustainable development, and is critical for socio-economic development,  the ecosystem’s health and human survival itself. Hungary has played an essential role in having a standalone goal on  water. Many of you still remember the Budapest Water Summit in 2013 and its closing document. The Budapest  Statement calls for the development of a dedicated and comprehensive sustainable development goal on water. In this  context, I would like to draw your attention to our candidature to the Intergovernmental Council of the International  Hydrological Programme (IHP). Hungary would greatly appreciate the valuable support of the Member States to its  candidature.
47.6 We recognize that education is a main catalyst for sustainable development. Under SDG 4 on education,  Member States agreed to ensure that all learners acquire the knowledge and skills needed to promote sustainable  development. By its horizontal nature, education is not only a goal in itself but also a contributor to and beneficiary of all  the other Sustainable Development Goals.
47.7 Ladies and gentlemen, Hungary is committed to the global effort tackling climate change. Our aim is to adopt a  single global legally binding agreement applicable to all at the twenty-first session of the Conference of the Parties to the  United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (COP 21) in Paris this December. Therefore, Hungary  welcomes UNESCO’s contribution to the success of COP 21.
47.8 The World Science Forum is being held at Budapest from 4 to 7 November. The Forum has grown to be one of  the most prestigious scientific events, and we are proud that this year, UNESCO’s involvement reached exceptional  levels due to the active and invaluable contribution of the Natural Sciences Sector. We are looking forward to the speech  of Director-General Irina Bokova later this week. Finally, let me emphasize that the Hungarian Government is fully  committed to UNESCO and its programmes. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your attention.
(49.1) Mr Sayyad (Yemen) (translation from the Arabic):   Mr President of the General Conference, Mr Chair of the Executive Board, Madam Director-General, Your  Excellencies, ladies and gentlemen, what can we say in times of war, sadness and destruction, as we see countries that used  to be mainstays of world civilization and progress turning their backs on this venerable civilizational heritage and giving  themselves over to killing, disintegration and extinction? Why are the voices of peace and the peaceful coexistence of the  inhabitants of a single homeland and nation receding? We see today the landmarks of the heritage and the creations of the  past which our fathers and grandfathers have preserved, and which our Prophet and our religion urged should be preserved,  being destroyed before our very eyes, receding before the sectarian and tribal flood and the shadows of religious ignorance  and the oppression of minds that light does not reach. But in the face of such a situation, we feel today, more than at any time  in the past, that in order to confront such challenges and stand firmly against violence, fanaticism, and mutual slaughter, it is
70  necessary to act on the basis of UNESCO’s message consisting of the ideals and goals of this venerable Organization, which  has put peace and the values of tolerance and coexistence at the forefront of its objectives and at the core of its message.
(49.2) On the basis of this conception and conviction, Yemen, despite the vicious circle of war and wanton confrontations,  clings fast, together with UNESCO, to the following ideals and objectives: the right to and priority of education, making the goal  of lifelong education for all (EFA) a reality rather than a mere slogan. Reducing the disparities between men and women,  including among youth, in the field of education, updating curricula and removing from them traces of marginalization of the  Other or encouragement of hatred, scorn and fanaticism. Together with UNESCO, we believe in the cultural aspect of  development and the need for interaction between cultures and civilizations against a backdrop of diversity and difference, and  making the culture of peace and dialogue alternatives to the culture of war, violence and destruction. Together with UNESCO,  we reiterate the need to strengthen freedom of expression and free, independent and pluralist information media, to ensure the  freedom of journalism, to stand firmly against violations of such freedoms to which journalists are subject, and to ensure their  safety in accordance with the provisions of UNESCO’s Constitution and the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. Together  with this Organization, we realize that today’s youth are tomorrow’s leaders, which makes it incumbent upon us to provide  quality education to young men and women, since that is the right way to ensure their dignity, their freedom and their right to a  secure future, without violence, terrorism, drugs, fanaticism or hatred.
(49.3) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, no Arab citizens can today ignore the war and destruction under way in their  own country, whatever the justifications and reasons for these reprehensible wars and the covert and overt forces that fuel  them, they remain our wars against one another; we are all concerned by them, we are all their victims, and we are all the  losers, wars in which there is neither victory nor victors. The wars that we are witnessing today, ladies and gentlemen, do not  belong to our age; they are wars of wanton darkness which not only are aimed at excluding the Others, but also at destroying  them and depriving them from their right to freedom and life, which makes it incumbent upon us all to work together to halt  these wars and senseless confrontations – whatever the religions we believe in, the civilizations we belong to, the languages  we speak, and the greater and lesser identities we cling to – and to work together with this Organization to strengthen the  values of tolerance and coexistence. I thank you all very much.
50. The President:   Thank you very much, Your Excellency. Our next speaker is His Excellency Mr Carmel Shama Hacohen,  Ambassador and Permanent Delegate of Israel to UNESCO. Your Excellency, you have the floor.
51.1 Mr Hacohen (Israel):   Mr President, Madam Director-General, distinguished ministers, Ambassadors, ladies and gentlemen. In 1949,  just one year after the establishment of the State of Israel, we became a full member of UNESCO. The proximity in time  was made not only for practical or political purposes, it was more than that.  Israel’s Declaration of Independence, in
1948, is based on the same values UNESCO aims to promote. And, Mr President, I am quoting: “[Israel] will be based on  freedom, justice and peace […]; it will ensure complete equality of social and political rights to all its inhabitants  irrespective of religion, race or sex; it will guarantee freedom of religion, conscience, language, education and culture; it  will safeguard the Holy Places of all religions...”.  They are as relevant today as they were 67 years ago, and they reflect  the fact that in Israel, and here in UNESCO, we have shared for more than six decades the same dream of a better world.
51.2 Israel is a strong believer in education, since our major resource is the human being. We are not rich in oil, nor  in nature’s gifts spread around over our region. Our source of strength is our people, our children and their education. In  the last two years, Israel continued to work with UNESCO on many areas such as education, with a high emphasis on  promoting teachers in Africa, information and technology, where Israel has a leading role in the Information for All  Programme (IFAP), science, culture and many more aspects.
51.3 Israel is also working together with UNESCO on Holocaust education, and values enormously UNESCO’s work  on that subject. The global challenges we are facing today are making UNESCO more relevant than ever. Education,  climate change, radicalization, racism, anti-Semitism, to name a few, are all interconnected in our global village. To  address those challenges we need cooperation, we need to work together, we need a strong UNESCO, not an  organization that is weakened by political disputes.
51.4 Sadly, Israel has witnessed in the last four years a dangerous trend of politicization of UNESCO’s bodies,  especially the governing bodies, which continue to single out Israel with anti-Israeli and anti-reality proposals and  resolutions. We all share responsibility to our national interest, but at the same time, by joining this Organization we  share the responsibility of making UNESCO strong and efficient. When you become a Member State in this Organization  you are expected to behave like one. You are expected to be responsible and follow the spirit and values of the  Organization and not to take advantage of your membership for advancing only your narrow interests, and especially not  by using offensive language and incitement instead of mutual respect and tolerance.
51.5 UNESCO’s values are about coexistence even if we do not agree. They are not about bullying or humiliating  other Member States. Ladies and gentlemen, 20 years ago, on 4 November 1995, Israel’s Prime Minister Yitzhak Rabin  was assassinated by a Jewish extremist. Rabin was a messenger of peace, but even though he was killed, his dream for  peace is still valid in the hearts of all Israelis. We pray for peace to preserve both our and our neighbours’ lives, and we  work for a better world to improve the quality of life for everyone.  UNESCO is the best tool to ensure that the life we  all cherish will be worth living, that our history will be worth remembering and that our future will be worth creating. Let us  use UNESCO as a bridge over gaps instead of using it to dig new ones or to widen the existing ones. I thank you.
52. The President:   Thank you very much, Your Excellency. Our next speaker is His Excellency, Mr Thierry Muñoz-Ledo,  Ambassador, Permanent Delegate of Mexico to UNESCO. Your Excellency, you have the floor.
(53.1) Mr Muñoz-Ledo (Mexico) (translation from the Spanish):   Mr President of the General Conference, Mr Chair of the Executive Board, Madam Director-General, distinguished  delegates, ladies and gentlemen, this historic body has been the stage for major debates. As Archimedes might have put it, it  is the fulcrum from which our ideas can move the world. And it is precisely at the time of this 70th anniversary of UNESCO,  when the Organization invites us to consider the transcendent importance of education for all human beings and to make  decisions in this sphere which will set the pattern for the coming 15 years. Since it took office, the Government of Mexico, led  by President Enrique Peña Nieto, has undertaken to transform the country radically. It has therefore launched 13 structural  reforms to establish the basis for improving the economy, strengthening and extending citizens’ rights and strengthening its  democratic regime. The federal executive authority has strongly emphasized that the most important of these 13 reforms is in  the area of education.
(53.2) The Mexican Minister for Public Education, Aurelio Nuño Mayer, believes that exercising the right to education  means that that education must be of high quality. Over 50 years ago, the second Director-General of UNESCO, Jaime Torres  Bodet, who was the Mexican Minister for Public Education, undertook the challenge of providing education to all Mexican  citizens. The challenge now is that the education should be of high quality. With this commitment, my Government has  amended the Constitution to raise to the highest legal status the right to an education which is not only compulsory, free of  charge, and secular, but now also of high quality. Mexico’s education reform has established a number of goals, including the  strengthening of schools through the implementation of a model of self-management and the participation of parents, through  a close relationship with head teachers. Mexico is a country with a large population, spread over almost two million square  kilometres. As a result, throughout its history it has suffered significant lags in terms of infrastructure.
(53.3) Over the coming three years, Mexico will tackle this major challenge by investing considerable financial resources to  improve physical conditions and equipment in over 30,000 educational establishments, representing almost all the schools  which have been falling behind. We have begun reviewing our curricula to ensure that education is relevant and appropriate  for today’s living conditions. But this huge effort would be entirely fruitless if we were to overlook one of the fundamental  stakeholders in this process: teachers. We have therefore established a Professional Teaching Service in Mexico, to regulate  teachers’ recruitment, promotion, recognition and retention in the teaching profession. Thanks to this great experience, Mexico  has decided to sponsor the Teacher Policy Development Guide in the framework of this session of the General Conference.
(53.4) In Mexico we see education as a mechanism for upward social mobility, which has the power to counteract the  inertia of inequalities. We believe that education, that the organized force of the world of ideas, must be the battering ram
72  which will demolish the obvious inequalities hobbling our societies. Providing quality education will produce men and women  who are aware of their environment, able to deal with immediate concerns and, at the same time, project themselves into the  future; people who show concern for others and are able to consider and understand their realities. This is the scale of the  noble task we have undertaken. We are glad that this forum, which for 70 years has brought us together in the same spirit of  affirming international cooperation, is now renewing its commitment to work together over the coming 15 years to ensure that  every person in all the Member States will have access to quality lifelong education. Thank you very much.
54. The President:   Thank you very much, Sir. Our next and last speaker for this meeting is His Excellency Mr Lee Byong Hyun,  Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary, Permanent Delegate of the Republic of Korea to UNESCO. Your  Excellency, you have the floor.
55.1 Mr Lee (Republic of Korea):   Mr President, Mr Chair of the Executive Board, Madam Director-General, Excellencies, distinguished delegates. It is my  honour and privilege to speak on behalf of the Republic of Korea during the 38th session of the General Conference as  we celebrate the 70th anniversary of UNESCO.
55.2 This session takes place with a towering achievement, the adoption of the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable  Development, which will guide the international community to attain sustainable development during the next 15 years.  Over the last 70 years, UNESCO has been at the heart of action to strengthen the defences of peace and sustainable  development by promoting education for all (EFA) on the basis of human rights, and safeguarding the cultural and  natural heritage of humanity.
55.3 UNESCO has been acting to advance scientific cooperation and innovation for the benefit of all and to lead  social transformations and to defend freedom of expression. UNESCO’s mandate has never been more relevant to us  than today and the Republic of Korea reaffirms its full support to the mandate and the fundamental principles of  UNESCO and renews its pledge to further these tasks as shared responsibilities of humanity.
55.4 The year 2015 is a milestone for global education. The World Education Forum 2015 held in Incheon, Republic  of Korea, last May, set out the direction of the global education agenda for the next 15 years. I would like to take this  opportunity to express my sincere appreciation to all stakeholders for their participation and contributions.
55.5 I am certain that the Incheon Declaration adopted at the Forum for inclusive and equitable quality education and  lifelong learning for all paved the way for the adoption of the mandated goals in education in the 2030 Agenda for  Sustainable Development. The Republic of Korea is determined to increase its Official Development Assistance (ODA)  spending on education and to continue its close cooperation with UNESCO to translate the 2030 Agenda into concrete  actions.
55.6 In the same vein, the Republic of Korea is determined to take the lead in the “Better Life for Girls” initiative with a  view to overcoming inequalities in education and in building capacities for the most vulnerable girls in developing  countries, as Madam President Park Geun-hye rightly emphasized at the Global Education First Initiative (GEFI) high- level event during the United Nations Summit.
55.7 Also, the Republic of Korea is planning to launch a new project “ICT transforming education in Africa”. Taking  stock of our achievements and the lessons learned through our previous projects such as Better Education for Africa’s  Rise (BEAR), the Republic of Korea is looking forward to engaging in future programmes for developing countries.
55.8 Excellencies, distinguished delegates, I highly appreciate the Secretariat’s efforts for the inclusion of water,  oceans, biodiversity and science policy in the 2030 Agenda. I look forward to UNESCO’s continued contributions and a  strong presence in these fields of competence with the expertise and experience of its international scientific  programmes such as the International Hydrological Programme (IHP), the Programme on Man and the Biosphere (MAB),  and the Intergovernmental Oceanographic Commission (IOC). In this regard, I highly welcome the adoption of the MAB  Strategy 2015-2021, which reconfirms the mission of the MAB Programme for sustainable development.
55.9 Distinguished delegates, it is our firm belief that cultural universality and diversity unites and ties all of us on the  planet. As confirmed through the 2030 Agenda, culture is one of the major players for sustainable development.  Recognizing the importance of unlocking potentials and the values of culture, the Republic of Korea is making every  endeavour on the basis of our national policy goals, to ensure happiness for the people and cultural enrichment.
55.10 In addition, my Government notes the great impact of the World Heritage Convention on sustainable  development and thus implements various activities with our expertise, in particular with the aim to strengthen the  capacity to protect and preserve the world heritage of developing countries. Also my Government fully supports  UNESCO’s mandate of promoting and preserving documentary heritage and continues to extend our cooperation in the  activities of the UNESCO/Jikji Memory of the World Prize, along with our assistance to the Memory of the World  Programme through training workshops.
55.11 Mr President, distinguished delegates, ladies and gentlemen, the Republic of Korea is committed to respond to  the global call for action in the new era of the 2030 Agenda, as a trustworthy partner of UNESCO throughout its journey,  as it has always been. Together with all of you in UNESCO, we will embark on a long journey toward the future with  greater happiness and greater peace all over the world. Thank you so much.
56. The President:   Ladies and gentlemen, thank you very much for sharing your vision and experiences. This morning’s debate has  been very enriching, and I am sure that the Director-General and her staff have been taking good note of your comments.  I am looking forward to continuing our debate this afternoon. The plenary will reconvene at 3 p.m. sharp, but I
73  respectfully request all of you, dear delegates, to be here at least by 2.45 p.m. so that we are on time to hear an address  by His Excellency, the Prime Minister of the Cook Islands. The meeting is adjourned.  The meeting rose at 1.15 p.m.  La séance est levée à 13 h 15   Se levanta la sesión a las 13.15  Заседание закрывается в 13.15  الظهربعد  ١,١٥رفعت اسلسة يف الساعة    会议于 13 时 15 分结束