1.  The President:   Good morning Excellencies, ladies and gentlemen. I declare open the fifth plenary meeting of the General  Conference. Today we will continue with the national statements, and in the afternoon we will hear reports from the  Credentials Committee. Can we please take our seats, ladies and gentlemen? Since we have a long list of eminent  speakers, I propose that we start immediately with our work. I wish to remind you that each national statement will be  limited to six minutes. I now have the honour to call on our first speaker this morning, Her Excellency Dr Mahali  Phamotse, Minister of Education and Training of Lesotho. Excellency, you have the floor.
2.1 Ms Phamotse (Lesotho):   Mr President of the General Conference, Madam Director-General, Your Excellencies, dear colleagues, it is a  great honour to be afforded this opportunity of delivering my maiden speech to this auspicious gathering. I bring to you all  special warm regards and best wishes for a fruitful 38th session of the General Conference from His Majesty King Letsie  III, the Government and the people of the Kingdom of Lesotho.
2.2 Mr President, allow me to congratulate you on your election as the President of the 38th session of the General  Conference of UNESCO and to wish you every success in your new assignment. I am particularly proud of you coming  from the southern Africa region. I have no doubt that you will steer this session successfully based on your background  knowledge as representative of a Member of the Executive Board.
2.3 Mr President, Lesotho has studied the work done in the preparation of the Medium-Term Strategy for 2014-2021
(37 C/4), the report by the Executive Board on its activities, and the implementation of the Programme and Budget for
2014-2017 (37 C/5). We truly are satisfied with the planned strategies which we believe will turn UNESCO’s vision for the  post-2015 global agenda into reality.
2.4 Since 2000, efforts towards achieving education for all (EFA) have yielded unprecedented progress. As we are  now at the end of the EFA goals, I am glad to announce that Lesotho performed particularly well on three of those goals,  attaining 85% on youth and adult learning literacy and 72% on improving levels of adult literacy. On goal number two of  the Millennium Development Goals (MDGs), we achieved 80% for universal primary education. For this, we thank the  UNESCO family and particularly the countries that provided financial, technical and other forms of support without which  all these could not have been achieved. I must mention that Lesotho allocates 23% of the national budget and 13% of its  gross domestic product (GDP) to education. However, this high investment is not translated into an equally high output  which therefore requires our full effort so as to enhance quality, equity and access.
2.5 Mr President, we from Lesotho understand very well the financial crisis that UNESCO has been experiencing for  over six years now. It would therefore be remiss of me not to acknowledge UNESCO’s efforts in categorizing Africa as a  global priority. My country has, for instance, been a beneficiary of many projects supported through the Participation  Programme and the International Programme for the Development of Communication (IPDC). We indeed are thankful to  the Organization for this generous support, and hope that robust measures will be taken to ensure that the reforms are  implemented efficiently and strategically to deliver the post-2015 development agenda and those goals related to  regional offices.
2.6 Mr President, in the past biennium, Lesotho was the beneficiary of a number of projects. These include: the  empowerment of youth groups in southern districts, the development of an electronic record management system for the  teaching service department, and support for distance and rural learners/teachers through a mobile digital library model.  Other projects include the science club network, a living library approach, and capacity building of Lesotho media houses.  UNESCO’s support in the strengthening of communication and information initiatives in Africa in general, and Lesotho in  particular, resulted in the establishment of the two first-ever community radio stations operating in the rural areas of  Lesotho. On issues of HIV andAIDS, UNESCO supports Lesotho through its Global Initiative on Education and HIV and  AIDS (EDUCAIDS) programmes. This is commendable.
2.7 On North-South and South-South cooperation, Lesotho and some of the National Commissions of sub-Saharan  Africa are benefiting from cooperation they have established with both the Korean and German National Commissions.  Lesotho in particular has been fortunate, despite the prevailing financial crisis which has forced UNESCO to reduce its  budget for capacity building for the National Commissions. Today our country’s cooperation with the German  Commission for UNESCO has been renewed to focus on staff capacity building and on the establishment of subregional  networks for mutual capacity as effective mechanisms of knowledge exchange. Similarly, in cooperation with the Korean  National Commission for UNESCO and its UNESCO Africa BRIDGE programme, three community learning centres in  two districts have been established since 2012 in Lesotho. On the same note, we also boast income-generating activities  such as aloe vaseline making, poultry-raising and others.
2.8 Mr President, one other important invaluable resource of Lesotho is water, which is not maximally utilized to  benefit Basotho. Economically Lesotho depends to a large extent on its water resources to generate revenue. One of the  challenges, however, is that many of Lesotho’s rural and urban citizens have limited access to safe, clean drinking water  and often have to walk long distances for hours to reach water access points, which may at times not be working.
103  Mr President, being aware that water will soon be a vital limiting factor in world development, we would like UNESCO to  help us improve the water situation in Lesotho. On this note, I have to say also that on the cultural conventions the  Sehlabathebe National Park has now been inscribed on the World Heritage List and we hope to make progress bringing  this asset to the required standards. On this note, I would like to express our hope that the financial constraints that have  beset this Organization for some time now shall finally be resolved when negotiations between the Director-General and  our partners come to fruition sooner rather than later. I thank you.
3. The President:   Thank you very much, Your Excellency. Our next speaker is Her Excellency, Ms Ellen Trane Norby, Minister for  Children, Education and Gender Equality of Denmark. Your Excellency, you have the floor.
4.1 Ms Norby (Denmark):   Thank you, Mr President. Mr President of the General Conference, Madam Director-General, Mr Chair of the  Executive Board, Excellencies, ladies and gentlemen, let me start by congratulating every one of us on the anniversary  and the achievements of UNESCO in the 70 years of its existence. We mark this anniversary at a time when Member  States and the United Nations have come together and launched a new compelling agreement to eradicate extreme  poverty and to set an agenda for global sustainable development towards 2030. Denmark is fully committed to following  up on the 2030 Agenda nationally and in cooperation with our international development partners.
4.2 In the ongoing conflicts with extremism and terrorism we have witnessed throughout the world these past years,  we have seen unprecedented destruction and plundering of outstanding cultural heritage and cultural artefacts. We  support the work of UNESCO and the Director-General in fighting these attacks and in condemning them.
4.3 We also underline the importance of UNESCO’s standard-setting and operational work in the field of media  development, freedom of expression and safety of journalists throughout the world. Freedom of expression is a  fundamental human right and a basic condition for progress and democracy which needs to be protected and  strengthened. Denmark is an active member of the Intergovernmental Council and the Bureau of the International  Programme for the Development of Communication (IPDC). In the same vein, we are also co-organizing an important  side event this Friday 6 November, on artistic freedom in connection with the meeting of the Culture Commission. I hope  that many of you will participate because artistic and cultural freedom is another form of freedom of expression that is  extremely important to protect in our world of today.
4.4 We are aware that UNESCO for the last four years has had to deal with some extraordinary budget issues, and I  wish to thank the Director-General and her staff for managing to keep up the spirit and important programme activities.  This has been key – that we have succeeded in reforming UNESCO while at the same time keeping the focus on the  content. Looking back, only a week ago the University of Aalborg in the northern part of Denmark co-hosted a  conference on the impact of UNESCO. Numerous studies have shown that UNESCO activities do have an impact in  different countries, and I think it is important that we also document these findings.
4.5 Looking forward, we need to focus exactly on the same question: how do we further strengthen the relevance  and impact of UNESCO in the world and in our respective countries? The Danish Government shares the vision of the  Director-General, who wishes to shape an Organization that is more “fit to deliver”, and we encourage her to continue the  necessary reforms, not just of structures and costs but also in terms of the quality of the programmes that are delivered  and that generate changes.
4.6 Governance in UNESCO needs to be lighter, less costly, more efficient and more strategic. At the national level  in Denmark, we are currently working to increase the visibility and relevance of UNESCO with a view to strengthening  action across traditional administrative and policy silos. Let me mention just a few of the points where we see that  UNESCO matters to us.
4.7 Quality education in a globalized world must involve a global outlook and understanding of interconnections.  There, UNESCO’s values and inclusive work on education for global citizenship and sustainable development really  matter. UNESCO’s Global Network of Learning Cities is an important initiative for a number of cities in Denmark, and we  are working to join the Network so as to gain inspiration as to how best to place inclusive learning at the centre of  sustainable city development, a city development that also includes citizens in the cities.
4.8 In relation to global geoparks and the Man and the Biosphere Programme (MAB), we have projects approved  and under way in Denmark, that help communities to focus on their special qualities and potential, and stimulate positive  local development and dynamics. In order to achieve sustainable development, we will have to include our local  communities even more in the Organization and in policy decisions.
4.9 For all of these reasons, the work of UNESCO is important not only to us in Denmark but also on a global level.  Education for everybody, protection of the cultural heritage, focus on the freedom of expression and the right of people to  express themselves, be they journalists, artists, or people in general, is an important value not least in our world of today.  From the Danish perspective, we look forward to closer cooperation within the UNESCO framework and I thank you for  your attention.
5. The President:   Thank you very much, Your Excellency. Our next speaker is Her Excellency Ms Elizabeta Kancheska Milevska,  Minister of Culture of the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia. Your Excellency, you have the floor.
6.1 Ms Milevska (The former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia):   Thank you, dear Mr President of the General Conference, dear Director-General of UNESCO, dear Mr Chair of  the Executive Board, dear heads of delegations, Excellencies, ladies and gentlemen. I would like at the outset to express
104  my great pleasure that today I have the opportunity to address this eminent forum, which again underlines the  importance of UNESCO and the authority that the Organization has, inspiring the world’s intellectual and political elite as  well as media outlets.
6.2 This is the forum that is expected to show dialogue and leadership in addressing the changes of today. This is  the forum that has proved that our efforts could lead to activities which would benefit all of us, the UNESCO Member  States. I am pleased to say that our country, the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, has special respect for  UNESCO as an organization that has justified its existence exactly by focusing on political and development goals in our  common interest. In this regard, I would like to express my conviction that this 38th session of the General Conference of  UNESCO, by which we mark the great jubilee of 70 years of UNESCO, will also enable us to take stock of the achieved  results and even to set new goals in the spirit of the Organization, to promote cooperation and serve the needs of the  citizens of our countries.
6.3 Ladies and gentlemen, as Minister of Culture and President of the National Commission of the former Yugoslav  Republic of Macedonia for UNESCO, I would like to underline the fact that the Government of our country pays great  attention to cooperation with the Organization and tries to establish active and constructive cooperation with other  UNESCO Member States.
6.4 All projects which we have thus far implemented with UNESCO give strong impetus to the recognition of the  universal values of the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, and provide opportunities for institutions, experts and  young talented people from our country to be actively involved. I avail myself of this opportunity to mention some of the  major activities that we have implemented together with UNESCO in the fields of culture, education, environment and  media: for example, opening the centre for digitization of cultural heritage; proclaiming the International Institute of  Earthquake Engineering and Engineering Seismology (IZIIS) in Skopje, as a category 2 centre under the auspices of  UNESCO; founding two UNESCO Chairs - one in Intercultural Studies and Research at the  Saints Cyril and Methodius  University in Skopje, and the other in Media, Dialogue and Mutual Understanding at the School of Journalism and Public  Relations; establishing many UNESCO Clubs and the inclusion of many schools in the former Yugoslav Republic of  Macedonia in the UNESCO Associated Schools Project Network (ASPnet).
6.5 Of paramount importance also is the fact that thus far we have inscribed two cultural properties on the UNESCO  Representative List of the Intangible Cultural Heritage of Humanity. Another very important project carried out with our  neighbours and other countries from the region is the exhibition entitled “Imagining the Balkans: Identities and memory in  the long nineteenth century”, through which we promote the common treasures that are part of the world’s cultural  heritage.
6.6 Ladies and gentlemen, the Government of the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia has been fully committed  to the process of inter-civilization dialogue, bringing different cultures closer together by implementing joint cooperation  and communication, which is also advocated by UNESCO. In this regard, since 2007 we have organized together with  UNESCO three global conferences on interreligious and inter-civilization dialogue. By fruitful discussion and exchanges  of experience and knowledge at those conferences, representatives of all world religions, experts, and prominent  members of international organizations, have once more acknowledged the fact that culture and religion are the key  factors of peace, living together, prosperity and well-being. I am here to inform you that in 2016 the former Yugoslav  Republic of Macedonia will host the fourth World Conference on Interreligious  and Inter-Civilization Dialogue.
6.7 The former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia has for a long time been very successfully and effectively involved  in the great European and international project on the participation of its population in education, as part of the United  Nations Millennium Development Goals (MDGs). We invest in modern and practical education which will respond to the  development needs of the country and will be comparable to that offered by other European Union countries.
6.8 Let me take this opportunity to note that it has been a special honour for our country to have a seat on  UNESCO’s Executive Board. Being part of the Board for the past four years, we have been consistent in our commitment  to enhancing the international rule of UNESCO in order to further promote traditional cooperation with all Member States.
6.9 Ladies and gentlemen, it is up to us to see what kind of world we will live in, what kind of education will be  offered to future generations, and what kind of treatment will be given to culture. Let me offer congratulations to  UNESCO celebrating 70 years since the establishment of our Organization. I call on you as Member States of UNESCO  to continue your commitment through the implementation of the Organization’s initiatives and programmes in order to  achieve visible results for a better and more prosperous future for generations to come and for humanity in general.  Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your attention.
(8.1) Mr Al Hammadi (United Arab Emirates) (translation from the Arabic):   Your Excellency Mr President of the General Conference, Your Excellency Mr Chair of the Executive Board, Your  Excellency Madam Director-General of UNESCO, Excellencies heads and members of delegations, ladies and gentlemen,  peace and the mercy and blessings of God be upon you. I begin my statement before the General Conference by conveying to  you the greetings and best wishes of the President of the United Arab Emirates, His Highness Sheikh Khalifa bin Zayed Al  Nahyan, may God preserve him, and his brother, the Vice-President, President of the Council of Ministers, the Ruler of Dubai,  may God preserve him, His Highness Sheikh Mohammed bin Rashed Al Maktum, and members of the UAE Government and  people. I salute the General Conference and the team entrusted with preparing and organizing this august event. Special  appreciation and commendation go to the Director-General of UNESCO, Ms Irina Bokova, who is well known for her expertise  and competence: she has taken on the educational, cultural and scientific role of the Organization, and endowed it with her  own individuality and pioneering spirit in UNESCO’s fields of competence. With this substantive transformation, UNESCO has  risen anew on the basis of the constants first laid down by the founding fathers, and first and foremost, constructing the  defences of peace in the minds of men. This noble message for all humankind aimed at promoting the will of good and  constructiveness inherent in humanity, will turn the page of wars, conflicts and confrontations, and will be part of a project  aimed at developing peace, the peace of development as a bridge to a future of the most radiant, the most significant, and the  most deeply effective humanitarian welfare, prosperity and progress in a world of new universal values.
(8.2)  Ladies and gentlemen, in less than one month from now we will celebrate our State, established by its late founding  leader, Sheikh Zayed bin Sultan Al Nahyan, God rest his soul, on our 44th national holiday. In what is a relatively short space  of time in the life of States and nations, we have adopted the principle of “making possible the impossible”.  We have  proceeded along this path at a steady pace, and we have seen miracles in achievements certified by the relevant international  institutions, at various levels. There are those who are visiting the United Arab Emirates, and those who are at home there,  making up 200 nationalities working, interacting and coexisting in peace and harmony, admiring the majesty of the stone, and  we spare no efforts for the majesty of humanity through the establishment of a knowledge society and investment in education  systems that are more involved in the technological era and its wealth. We thank God and praise our wise leadership, as we  have acquired pillars of educational infrastructure and educational excellence in innovative equipment and technologies. In this  way, we look forward to a better tomorrow for the coming generations, based on the thinking and values of enlightenment and  knowledge. We are backing quality and innovation at every stage in the educational process. We are focusing on the pivotal  part in the process, namely, teachers and teacher training. Because we look forward to the “knowledge economy”, we are  sparing neither technical means nor scientific assistance and we have recorded this in the context of programmes, decisions  and methods of guidance and education. As a result, we have been able to attract the world’s major institutes and universities  to establish branches in our country so as to inform thinking and culture throughout. In spite of the adoption of digital  technologies and the educational process, and openness to the subjects of the environment, biodiversity and global  citizenship, and this is new in our curricula and textbooks, we are focusing on refining the skills of thought and reflection,  honing perseverance and initiative, and developing aesthetics and art appreciation. Our first and greatest objective is to  consolidate the culture of peace and promote diversity, and disseminate the values of openness and tolerance towards the  different religions and races that make up the global village.
(8.3)  Distinguished brothers and sisters, ladies and gentlemen, the United Arab Emirates is in line with UNESCO in the  field of the tangible and intangible heritage. We hold this sector dear. We have given it everything it deserves in terms of care,
106  perseverance and attention, because “if you have no past, you have no present or future”, as was often remarked by the  founder of the State and the commander of our being, Sheikh Zayed bin Sultan Al Nahyan, God rest his soul. We are a  country with an ancient history and ancient civilization. Evidence of tradition is represented in the form of a map of a wide  variety of museums, which are a mine of knowledge, collective memory and collective national identity. We urge our future  generations to draw lessons therefrom, and draw inspiration from a source that is inexhaustibly giving.
(8.4)  Dear attendees, the United Arab Emirates is moving steadily from oil wells to knowledge wells. It has graduated from  indoctrination in education to the vastness of thinking and enlightenment. It has adopted communicative reasoning to interact  with the obligations of the civilizations in the global village. It adheres to ethical practice in political action. It believes that all  attestations lose their meaning if they are not a passport to humane values, as stated in the UNESCO book The Future of  Values, published in 2004. Accordingly, we call for the work of the Organization to become more effective. Perhaps the world,  bogged down in today’s problems and crisis, and the fierce play of interests, needs the wisdom, moderation and initial  positions of the leaders of the United Arab Emirates so as to overcome the cycle of conflict and propose solutions and  alternative ways of resolving disputes. Thank you for your attention. As-salāmu ‘alaikum wa-raḥmatu llāhi wa-barakātuh  (Peace and the mercy and blessings of God be upon you).
9. The President:   Thank you very much, Your Excellency. Our next speaker is Her Excellency, Ms Sanni Grahn-Laasonen,  Minister of Education and Culture of Finland. Your Excellency, you have the floor.
10.1 Ms Grahn-Laasonen (Finland):   Mr President, distinguished delegates, Finland concurs with the European Union statement. Excellencies,  human rights matter. Education matters. Gender equality matters. Freedom of expression matters. They are some of the  key components of the new sustainable development agenda. I wish to congratulate the Director-General on UNESCO’s  active input in the preparatory work.
10.2 In celebrating the 70th anniversary of UNESCO, we must face our challenges with the same determination as  our predecessors did in 1945. Finland is committed to supporting UNESCO in its important work. Despite the challenging  economic situation, Finland is proud to be able to continue its voluntary contribution to UNESCO.
10.3 Excellencies, the United Nations 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development is encouraging. It is holistic and  cross-cutting. It is not short on ambition and concerns all of us. It is an immense boost for UNESCO’s future programme.  It provides a huge opportunity to re-design the programme and calibrate the expected results and indicators. We hope for  action towards even more concrete and applicable policy recommendations. Evaluations are done, but there is still a  need for follow-up capacities across the board.
10.4 Today, events are moving at high speed, often outpacing the efforts of organizations built for another age,
70 years ago. A rejuvenated UNESCO must therefore be fit to respond to changes, and efficient governance is key. The  external governance audit deserves a holistic and careful study. This is also an area that we hope to promote as a  Member of the Executive Board from 2017 onwards.
10.5 Ladies and gentlemen, all of us face inequalities, both within and between our countries. The 2030 Agenda  supports a more people-centred approach, one with provisions also for people with disabilities and youth. Young people  are not only policy objects – they must be allowed to be active, contributing citizens. I am concerned by the wave of  intolerance and the spread of radicalization and violent extremism, to which young men are particularly prone. We need  to invest in global citizenship education and education for sustainable development.
10.6 For Finland, education comes first. The education agenda we approved yesterday quite rightly brings learning  and quality to the forefront. No one should be denied the right to education, but still girls continue to draw the short straw.  More needs to be done to secure the education of women and girls. We are pleased with the commitment to inclusion  and equity and the call for well-educated teachers. Equal opportunities are fundamental. Education provides skills for  employment, for decent work, and a way out of poverty. Therefore, education is also one of Finland’s priority fields for  our voluntary contribution.
10.7 Ladies and gentlemen, technology transfer and water-related questions on the 2030 Agenda are highly relevant  for UNESCO’s next programme. Finland strongly supports an integrated science approach. Finland values UNESCO’s  work for freedom of expression, press freedom, safety of journalists and the issue of impunity. They are essential for the  next programme, as is equal and open access to knowledge and information. The “Connecting the Dots” outcome  document provides a solid building block for Internet-related issues. I am pleased to confirm that Finland will continue its  support to the Communication and Information Sector. Finland proudly hosts UNESCO’s World Press Freedom Day  event next year and I am happy to welcome you all to Helsinki in May.
10.8 We are all terrified by the destruction of cultural heritage. Finland, as a member of the World Heritage  Committee, supports UNESCO in this area, including the campaign “#Unite4heritage”. We all have a shared  responsibility. To quote the former United Nations Secretary-General Kofi Annan: “Violence is never justifiable, it is not  inevitable and where the underlying causes are addressed, violence is entirely preventable.” We have come together to  make UNESCO fulfil its global mandate in tandem with the 2030 Agenda. We have the necessary elements and we will  all be held to account. What counts now is to move from promises to real change. I thank you all for your attention.
11. The President:   Thank you very much, Your Excellency. Our next speaker is His Excellency Mr Gustav Fridolin, Minister for  Education of Sweden. Your Excellency, you have the floor.
12.1 Mr Fridolin (Sweden):   Mr President, distinguished delegates, it is an honour for me to address the 38th session of the General  Conference of UNESCO. Sweden fully aligns itself with the European Union statement. We live in a time of far-reaching  transformation. The defining challenge is countering climate change. We need a course of action to create a low-carbon  and climate-resilient world economy. The escalating conflicts stemming from drought and climate change show clearly  that the world must reach a fair, ambitious and legally binding agreement in Paris in December. It is not a choice, but a  necessity for the survival of our civilizations as we know them. UNESCO’s work with regards to oceans and freshwater is  crucial. Sweden supports small island developing States (SIDS) or more correctly large ocean States, in addressing the  specific challenges with which they are faced.
12.2 The new 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development is a milestone. It is universal and we all have a  responsibility for its realization. UNESCO has an important role in translating the goals into action. We look forward to  engaging with all of you in the work ahead of us.
12.3 A sustainable future is impossible without ensuring gender equality. It is time to once and for all get rid of the  oppressing structures that prevent women from exercising the right to decide for themselves and to participate in political  and economic life. Anything else is an immoral waste of human resources. Equal rights and the right to education are a  priority in the Swedish Government’s feminist foreign policy. Inclusive and equitable quality education for all girls and  boys features prominently in the 2030 Agenda. Education for all is a key driver for change, and education for sustainable  development and global citizenship education are key components. Comprehensive sexuality education, as shown by  UNESCO’s programme, is essential in the work towards both gender equality and sustainable development.
12.4 In order to achieve fair and equal societies, UNESCO always has a vital role in promoting access to information  and press freedom. Sweden will continue to engage on the United Nations Plan of Action on the Safety of Journalists  and the Issue of Impunity. The upcoming conference with news organizations in February will provide a unique platform  for dialogue on journalists’ safety. We also welcome UNESCO’s recent report on world trends in freedom of expression  and media development and we invite more countries to contribute to this. UNESCO must continue to promote human  rights, including freedom of expression, online as well as offline. It is unacceptable that journalists are killed and  threatened when they do their job. We must speak out on behalf of those who have had their own voices silenced, like  the Swedish-Eritrean journalist Dawit Isaak. Our aim is that he should be released.
12.5 Mr President, while we need joint efforts in building a more sustainable future, we also need collective action for  the challenges of today. The current refugee situation is a global crisis. It is a human right to seek, and if in need, enjoy  asylum. A boy or a girl on the run from war or oppression can seldom be educated. A girl or a boy with a safe new home  country can. Sweden is proud that many refugees over the years have made Sweden a second home country. They  have contributed to make Sweden richer, as Sweden will continue to take its responsibility. In this situation, more  countries need to give help to those in need. Sweden has a clear stand: no State can flee its legal or international  obligations. Global crisis demands global responsibility.
12.6 To solve the crisis, the horrors in the Syrian Arab Republic must be stopped. Addressing the root causes of the  conflict in the Syrian Arab Republic is key. That is why all actors, regional as well as international, must intensify their  efforts in support of the United Nations-led political track and political solution. The fabric of entire civilizations is torn  apart. When artists and journalists cannot work, books are burnt and cultural heritage is destroyed it is a sign of  repressive, dark times. It is also the moment when UNESCO’s mandate is more important than ever.
12.7 Sweden strongly supports the implementation of the culture conventions and the actions undertaken by  UNESCO and the global community to counteract the demolition of and trafficking in cultural objects. A Nordic initiative  for enhanced international collaboration will start in Oslo in December this year.
12.8 Distinguished delegates, Sweden has always been a strong supporter of the United Nations, both politically and  financially. Over the years, Sweden has stood by those in the world who fight against repression and inequality, and for  independence and dignity. We now seek your confidence for a non-permanent seat on the United Nations Security  Council for the period 2017-2018. We will work towards a more representative, transparent and effective Council that can  respond swiftly to the security challenges of our time.
12.9 Mr President, we would also like to acknowledge all the hard work carried out by the UNESCO staff and the  Director-General, Ms Bokova. Sweden fully supports the Director-General’s work for the reform of UNESCO and we are  actively engaged for better governance of the Organization. Through further reform, UNESCO will be even more relevant  and more focused on its mandate, which will deliver more results. In order to do this, the budget level must match the  goals we have set.
12.10 As I said at the outset, we live in a time of far-reaching transformation and the founding ideas and principles of  UNESCO are as vibrantly urgent as ever. Sweden stands ready to continue our important joint work ahead to create  sustainable, equal and peaceful development. Thank you.
13. The President:   Thank you very much, Your Excellency. Our next speaker is His Excellency, Mr Rodolfo Alarcón Ortíz, Minister  of Higher Education of Cuba. Your Excellency, you have the floor.
(14.1) Mr Alarcón Ortiz (Cuba) (translation from the Spanish):  Thank you very much. Mr President, Madam Director-General, distinguished delegates, I would like to begin my  statement by congratulating Mr Stanley Mutumba Simataa on his election as President of this 38th session of the General  Conference of UNESCO. A few weeks ago, at the United Nations General Assembly, Heads of States and Government  adopted the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development. Regrettably, the modest commitments made in 2000 in the form of  the Millennium Development Goals have not been honoured. Progress has been insufficient and problems persist, building  and becoming increasingly serious in a despoiled and pillaged world, marked by conflicts in various regions where the peace  and stability needed to advance towards sustainable development are still a pipe dream.
(14.2) Underdevelopment prevails, the gulf between rich and poor is widening and inequalities between and within nations  are increasing. Environmental devastation and biodiversity loss seem unstoppable. Temperatures are rising as a result of  global warming and the natural balance of ecosystems is failing. It is unacceptable that 757 million adults today still lack basic  reading and writing skills and that the number of uneducated children and adolescents in the world has continued to increase,  rising to some 124 million.
(14.3) Cuba not only achieved the Millennium Development Goals but also extended its support and cooperation to other  developing countries. This was made possible by the political will of the Government and the clear support of the people,  whose solidarity-based, internationalist commitment is based on the principle of sharing what limited resources they have  rather than their leftovers. The efforts of the Cuban revolution are fully in line with the objectives of UNESCO. The sustained  efforts of the past 57 years have enabled us to provide our people with a free and universal education system; to make culture  and sports accessible to all; to build a high-performance health system; and to extensively develop scientific potential. All this  has been done amid the cruel and unjust blockade imposed by the Government of the United States of America which the  international community once again rejected overwhelmingly, barely a few days ago, at the United Nations General Assembly.
(14.4) Distinguished delegates, the Education 2030 Framework for Action that we have just approved at the high-level  meeting during this 38th session of the General Conference reflects a comprehensive, shared vision in pursuit of equitable  education for all. Cuba reaffirms its commitment to the Latin American Laboratory for the Assessment of Quality in Education  (LLECE) and supports the continuation of the UNESCO International Institute for Higher Education in Latin America and the  Caribbean (IESALC), a body designed to promote and develop higher education in the region. UNESCO must continue to lead  the global debate on the role of culture as a core component of the sustainable development of our nations. That theme was  high on the agenda of the third meeting of Ministers of Culture of the Community of Latin American and Caribbean States  (CELAC) held in Havana last September.
(14.5) Distinguished delegates, Madam Director-General, as it celebrates its 70th anniversary, UNESCO must continue to  play its role at the forefront of the tireless struggle to combat illiteracy; promote quality lifelong learning for all; protect and  preserve cultural diversity and heritage; develop science and research; and ensure universal access to information and the  latest means of communication. I take this opportunity to express appreciation for the recent successful visit to Cuba of  Ms Irina Bokova, as well as that of Mr Hao Ping, President of the General Conference, whom we congratulate on his recently  completed term of office. Cuba remains committed to UNESCO and its founding principles. We trust in its leadership and lead  role in the United Nations system, as well as its guidance in realizing the dream of achieving societies characterized by  genuine sustainable development. Thank you.
15. The President:   Thank you very much, Your Excellency. Our next speaker is His Excellency, Mr José Antonio Rodriguez,  Minister of Culture of the Dominican Republic. Your Excellency, you have the floor.
(16.1) Mr Rodríguez (Dominican Republic) (translation from the Spanish):   Mr President of the 38th session of the General Conference of UNESCO, Your Excellency Mr Stanley Simataa,  Deputy Minister of Information and Communication Technology of Namibia, Your Excellency Ms Irina Bokova, Director- General of UNESCO, heads of delegations, ministers, delegates, honourable ambassadors, ladies and gentlemen, paz,  peace, paix, мир, salaam, hépíng. Seventy years ago this forum was conceived through and for peace; but what is the point of  that word if it has no response? The world, according to Pope Francis, is immersed in a fragmented third world war and, you  know what: he is right. Or are illiteracy, poverty, religious differences, climate change, fanaticism, hunger, drug trafficking,  terrorism, extremism and apathy, among many, many issues compelling us to make peace a central theme, not a war? Not a  minute goes by without a nation’s soil being stained with human blood; we were moved by the child Aylan al-Kurdi on a  faraway beach in Turkey because we are all, in some way, his parents. All war is an affront to reason, every violent death of a  human being at another’s hands utter contempt for love. Today, we are here and next month we will be in another setting,  discussing and signing important documents. But what purpose do our meetings, treaties and agreements serve if we do not  have peace? Agreements carry the weight of justice only when they can be signed by all. Power is a pointless gimmick if it  does not allow us to invite our fellow-humans for a coffee, tea or glass of wine at the table of cooperation. We are all citizens of  the world; let us take firm steps to right what is now wrong.
(16.2) Let us go the extra mile, not out of a sense of duty but out of passion; from the heart of the Caribbean, I say: “Let us  see the majesty of the humility in our hearts and show the fruits so that our peace-restoring efforts are clear to see; it is time to  stop”. The earth can be a better place if we so decide; let us arouse a wave of peace that will rise above the oceans and  engulf with hope the hearts of so many millions of people who have no life because everyday life, for them, is fright and flight.  We are not betters but equals; what happens to me is happening to you; what happens to you is happening to the world, and I  know that I am speaking for all. We want future generations to remember us as peacemakers, in every country on the globe.  Let us make embraces victorious and cooperation, solidarity, fellowship and mutual benefits the only topics on our  international agendas. Life is not equipped with autocorrect; our silences are mistakes with consequences. In these few  moments that I have been speaking each of you has understood me as if you all spoke Spanish; if that is possible, thanks to  technology and the interpreters, then peace is possible too. Let us spread peace; let us teach peace. Standing here, hand on  heart, I assure you: we can do it. Let us work now for world peace. Many thanks, much peace.
17. The President:   Thank you very much, Your Excellency. Our next speaker is His Excellency, Mr Mountaga Tall, Minister of  Higher Education and Scientific Research of Mali. Your Excellency, you have the floor.
18.1 M. Tall (Mali):   Merci. Monsieur le Président de la Conférence générale, Monsieur le Président du Conseil exécutif, Madame la  Directrice générale de l’UNESCO, Mesdames et Messieurs les chefs de délégation, Mesdames, Messieurs, je voudrais  tout d’abord adresser mes chaleureuses félicitations au Président de la Conférence générale qui a été choisi pour diriger  les travaux de la 38e session. Je salue aussi les efforts déployés par le Président du Conseil exécutif, depuis la dernière  session de la Conférence générale, pour suivre et orienter les actions de l’UNESCO en vue de la réalisation de ses  objectifs. Je voudrais enfin, et particulièrement, rendre hommage au travail titanesque accompli par la Directrice  générale et à l’intérêt qu’elle a constamment manifesté pour la promotion de la paix en Afrique et le développement de  notre continent dans les domaines de compétence de l’Organisation.
18.2 Mesdames, Messieurs, le monde s’apprête à célébrer, le 16 novembre prochain, le 70e anniversaire de  l’adoption de l’Acte constitutif de l’UNESCO. Cet évènement marquera 70 ans d’un engagement exceptionnel de notre  Organisation pour la paix dans le monde, par les moyens de l’éducation, de la science, de la culture et de la  communication. Permettez-moi de saluer à cette occasion la qualité de la coopération entre mon pays, le Mali, et  l’UNESCO, pour la réalisation des idéaux de l’Organisation.
18.3 Plus particulièrement, je voudrais mentionner la sensibilisation de l’opinion internationale à la cause du Mali lors  de la crise politico-sécuritaire que notre pays a vécue en 2012, la restauration des mausolées saccagés par des groupes  armés, la préservation des manuscrits anciens et le renforcement de l’éducation à la culture de la paix et aux droits de  l’homme. Dans ce cadre et malgré des conditions difficiles, la Directrice générale s’est rendue à deux reprises sur le  terrain, dans le nord du Mali, après la libération de la ville de Tombouctou et des régions du Nord et après la  reconstruction des mausolées de Tombouctou. Nul ne s’étonnera donc que j’évoque son engagement personnel et sa  solidarité qui ont été jugés à leur juste valeur par notre peuple et par notre gouvernement. Vous me permettrez de  mentionner, dans ce contexte, la traduction récente devant la justice internationale d’un des responsables de la  destruction des mausolées de Tombouctou. Nul doute que ce geste fort, une première dans l’histoire, aura une portée  dissuasive pour ceux qui s’adonnent à travers le monde à la destruction du patrimoine culturel mondial de l’humanité.
18.4 Mesdames, Messieurs, le Mali tout entier se mobilise pour la mise en œuvre de l’Accord de paix et de  réconciliation nationale, issu du processus d’Alger, qui vise à amener définitivement la paix dans notre pays. C’est le lieu  d’exprimer les remerciements du Gouvernement et du peuple maliens à tous ceux qui se sont investis pour l’obtention de  ce résultat. Notre pays a déposé un projet de résolution en faveur de la mise en œuvre de cet accord. Je voudrais  profiter de cette tribune pour demander une nouvelle fois à la communauté internationale en général et à l’UNESCO en  particulier de nous appuyer dans cette mise en œuvre.
18.5 Mesdames et Messieurs, dans cette même dynamique de paix, de reconstruction et de réconciliation nationale,  notre pays met un accent particulier sur la remise en route de l’école sur toute l’étendue du territoire national, en veillant  particulièrement à la scolarisation des filles. C’est donc tout naturellement qu’au niveau du grand programme sur  l’Éducation, le Mali manifeste son intérêt pour l’éducation à la culture de la paix et aux droits de l’homme. Dans ce cadre,  la tenue d’une session de formation des enseignants du Nord à Mopti, au Mali, avec le soutien de l’UNESCO, et d’un  forum sur l’éducation à la culture de la paix à Bamako, contribuera certainement à consolider la paix dans le milieu  scolaire et, de façon générale, dans notre pays.
18.6 Accordant une grande importance au développement, qui joue un grand rôle dans  la consolidation de la paix,  notre pays attache beaucoup de prix à l’éducation en vue du développement durable et, de ce fait, à la Déclaration  d’Aichi-Nagoya sur l’éducation au développement durable. Enfin, dans le domaine de l’éducation, la formation des  planificateurs rentre aussi dans les lignes de priorité de notre pays.
18.7 Monsieur le Président, Mesdames et Messieurs, le Mali porte un grand intérêt au renforcement des capacités  des populations en matière de résilience face au changement et à la variabilité du climat, ainsi que l’attestent les  résultats des travaux de l’atelier de formation des jeunes sur les négociations internationales de la Convention-cadre des  Nations Unies sur les changements climatiques, tenu les 15 et 16 octobre 2015 à Bamako. Dans le domaine des  Sciences sociales et humaines, compte tenu de la situation de notre pays, le Mali appuie tous les programmes sur la  paix, la réconciliation et la consolidation de la cohésion sociale. Au titre du grand programme sur la Culture, l’une de nos  préoccupations est de mettre la culture au service de la prévention des conflits en plaçant l’accent sur le rôle des  langues nationales. Enfin, dans le cadre du grand programme portant sur l’Information et la Communication, la lutte  contre la cybercriminalité retient particulièrement notre attention.
18.8 Monsieur le Président, permettez-moi pour terminer de réaffirmer la ferme détermination du Mali à continuer  d’œuvrer pour le triomphe des idéaux de notre Organisation, l’UNESCO. Je vous remercie de votre aimable attention.
19. The President:   Thank you very much, Your Excellency. Our next speaker is His Excellency, Mr Illugi Gunnarsson, Minister of  Education, Science and Culture of Iceland. Your Excellency, you have the floor.
20.1 Mr Gunnarsson (Iceland):   Mr President of the General Conference, Mr Chair of the Executive Board, Madam Director-General,  distinguished delegates, I would like to express our congratulations to you, Mr President, on your election. We also wish  to thank the outgoing President and Chair of the Board.
20.2 Excellencies, in today’s international community, nations are engaged in never-ceasing competition where it  takes a strong economy and a flourishing society to attract young and dynamic people. Quality education is a key  ingredient in the development of any economy or society. In that respect, the point of reference is not necessarily the  length of schooling, but the competence individuals have acquired on leaving school and their ability to use it to improve  their living standards and contribute to society. There is no question in my mind that education is the key – the key to  contributing to lasting peace, the key to contributing to sustainable development and the key to the eradication of poverty.  It is my belief that education is a fundamental human right of which nobody should be deprived.
20.3 The world has changed enormously since the establishment of UNESCO 70 years ago. We live in a period of  rapid technological development, globalization and natural and societal changes. Regardless of where we think the world  is heading, most people agree that a good education is the best asset to bring on to that journey. A solid education  makes it easier for young people to find their way in a complex and ever-changing world, besides being the foundation of  a strong economy and citizens’ well-being.
20.4 Education and gender equality are two key elements in the new 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development. The  balance reached in this universal and integrated 2030 Agenda is an achievement of which we should be proud. We are  particularly proud to have been among the proponents of gender equality and empowerment of women as an  overarching element, necessary to achieving the other goals of our Agenda.
20.5 Our aims within UNESCO are also to spread knowledge and promote freedom of expression, global citizenship,  enhance sustainable development, and to encourage acceptance of cultural diversity, to mention just some areas of  great concern. These areas are all addressed first and foremost through better education. We need to invest in this  education and are pleased with the framework agenda in its commitment to equality and well-educated teachers.
20.6 One characteristic of a just and humane society is the treatment of its minorities. Iceland is deeply committed to  continue its work with others against discrimination of any kind, including on the basis of sexual orientation and gender  identity, and to protect and promote human rights and fundamental freedoms for all.
20.7 Mr President, UNESCO has a unique mandate for safeguarding freedom of expression and of the media, which  Iceland strongly supports. Not only is this a fundamental human right, which is vital for open societies, democracy and  free market economies, but it is also as a key ingredient in realizing our ambitions in education, science and culture. The  potential established by the new media must continue to be harnessed in the same spirit of freedom so that they may  best contribute to our goals.
20.8 This brings us to the importance of another important role of UNESCO, for the promotion of linguistic diversity.  Language is at the heart of cultural diversity, being one of the strongest components of cultural identity. It remains the  most forceful vehicle of the world’s intangible heritage. In this regard, our former President, Ms Vigdís Finnbogadóttir,  has been, and continues to be, an active participant in UNESCO’s work, in her capacities as Goodwill Ambassador for  linguistic diversity and with the International Language Centre for multilingualism and intercultural understanding, which  is a UNESCO category 2 institute located in Reykjavík. We are convinced that the Institute will contribute in an important  way to UNESCO’s role and our common objectives in safeguarding linguistic heritage worldwide, and supporting  linguistic diversity.
20.9 Ladies and gentlemen, UNESCO’s role as a champion of peace, understanding and tolerance is as urgent and  vital as ever. Education for all, gender equality and sustainability must be cross-cutting themes in all our work. Iceland is  firmly committed to playing an active role in contributing to UNESCO’s role and thereby working towards a common good.  The universal nature of our new 2030 Agenda common goals requires each of our States to contribute at the national,  regional and global levels. None of us can succeed alone. Iceland is committed to playing its part in reaching these  ambitious goals. Thank you for your attention.
21. The President:   Thank you very much, Your Excellency. Our next speaker is His Excellency Mr Albert Damantang Camara,  Minister of Technical Education and Employment of Guinea. Your Excellency, you have the floor.
22.1 M. Camara (Guinée) :    Monsieur le Président de la Conférence générale, Monsieur le Président du Conseil exécutif, Madame la  Directrice générale, Mesdames et Messieurs les chefs de délégation, Mesdames et Messieurs, vous permettrez que mes  premiers mots à l’adresse de cette auguste assemblée soient un message de paix, de concorde et de gratitude à  l’endroit de l’UNESCO qui n’a ménagé aucun effort pour accompagner notre pays depuis que celui-ci a souscrit à l’Acte  constitutif de l’Organisation.
22.2 En prenant part aux travaux de la 38e session de la Conférence générale de l’UNESCO, la République de  Guinée, par ma voix, voudrait tout d’abord apporter aux éminents représentants des États membres de l’UNESCO le  salut fraternel et amical du peuple de Guinée, du Gouvernement guinéen et tout particulièrement de S. E. le Professeur  Alpha Condé, Président de la République. Il m’est aussi agréable, au nom de la délégation de la République de Guinée,  de féliciter chaleureusement le Président pour sa brillante élection à la tête de cette 38e session de notre Conférence  générale. Je suis, d’ores et déjà, persuadé que ses immenses qualités professionnelles et sa riche expérience lui  permettront de conduire avec efficacité les travaux de la présente session.
22.3 Mesdames et Messieurs, la multiplicité et la complexité des défis qui interpellent nos États les moins avancés  dans le contexte d’un monde globalisé invitent, certes, à une mobilisation des ressources financières, mais aussi, et  surtout, à des réformes structurelles et méthodologiques tendant à mieux cerner les problèmes et les réalités à la base.  Comme vous le mentionniez lors de la séance inaugurale, les valeurs cardinales de l’UNESCO, et notamment celles de
112  partage et de solidarité, doivent plus que jamais gouverner notre marche vers les objectifs de développement durable à  l’horizon 2030. La Guinée se félicite à cet égard de la solidarité de la communauté internationale à l’endroit du peuple de  Guinée dans sa lutte contre la fièvre hémorragique à virus Ébola et du précieux soutien qu’elle a apporté en termes  d’appui technique et d’accompagnement structurel et financier aux trois pays touchés : la Guinée, le Libéria et la Sierra  Leone.
22.4 Monsieur le Président, Mesdames et Messieurs, après avoir mis en place toutes les institutions républicaines  qui ont permis un meilleur ancrage démocratique du pays, la Guinée a organisé, le 11 octobre dernier, pour la deuxième  fois consécutive, une élection présidentielle, qui a permis de renouveler le mandat du Président de la République, le  Professeur Alpha Condé. Aussi, en prélude à l’élaboration de nouvelles politiques nationales dans les différents  domaines de compétence de l’UNESCO, le Gouvernement guinéen envisage d’organiser les États généraux du Secteur  de l’éducation, des sciences, de la culture et de la communication.
22.5 Dans ce même élan, le Gouvernement guinéen a engagé un vaste programme de consultations de la jeunesse  à travers le projet « Nos jeunes ont du talent » dont la réalisation a permis au Ministère en charge de la jeunesse de se  mettre à l’écoute des problèmes rencontrés par les jeunes, notamment en matière d’éducation et d’emploi, afin de mieux  les accompagner et de les responsabiliser davantage. Tout cela s’inscrit dans la vision prospective du Président de la  République visant à promouvoir une refondation et un développement de notre système éducatif dont la mise en œuvre  requiert le soutien de tous nos partenaires techniques et financiers, en particulier de l’UNESCO.
22.6 L’éducation est notre priorité, une priorité politique, une priorité de programme. Nous devons continuer à créer  une forte dynamique politique autour de l’éducation en faisant valoir les progrès accomplis au cours des dix dernières  années et en démontrant sans relâche l’impact positif de l’éducation sur tous les indicateurs du développement.  L’ambition des autorités politiques est de faire de la Guinée un pays émergent d’ici 15 à 25 ans, stratégie déclinée dans  une vision intitulée « Guinée 2035 » qui rassemble les différentes composantes de la société guinéenne et qui s’appuie  sur sa principale force : sa jeunesse, qui représente 43 % de la population.
22.7 Mesdames et Messieurs, le choix de Conakry comme « Capitale mondiale du livre » pour l’année 2017 par un  comité international d’experts, le 30 juin dernier, au Siège de l’UNESCO, reste gravé désormais dans les annales de  notre histoire. Cet événement promet, d’ores et déjà, d’être un véritable laboratoire d’idées et un espace d’échange sur  les grandes questions intellectuelles des décennies à venir. Tout en vous remerciant, Madame la Directrice générale, de  ce choix porté sur notre pays et de cette marque de confiance, nous sollicitons l’expertise multidisciplinaire de l’UNESCO  pour soutenir les efforts de construction d’une société moderne du savoir dans notre pays. Nous sommes, en effet,  convaincus que c’est aussi à travers un savant dosage entre l’éducation, la science et la culture que l’Afrique pourra se  doter des ressources humaines dont elle a besoin pour accélérer sa croissance et son développement économique. À ce  titre, il serait souhaitable de renforcer l’apport de l’UNESCO au titre de la valorisation des secteurs de l’enseignement  supérieur et de la recherche scientifique, de l’enseignement pré-universitaire, de l’enseignement technique et de la  formation professionnelle et de la création de centres d’excellence.
22.8 Monsieur le Président, Mesdames et Messieurs, avant de terminer, je formule le vœu ardent que l’action de  l’UNESCO, notamment en Afrique, s’amplifie et se consolide à travers des programmes et projets novateurs porteurs  d’espoir et d’espérance pour faire reculer les frontières de l’analphabétisme, de l’ignorance, de l’incompétence  scientifique et technique, de l’incompréhension et de l’intolérance, en vue de promouvoir le développement et de  consolider la paix. Je souhaite plein succès aux travaux de la 38e session de la Conférence générale de l’UNESCO. Vive  l’UNESCO ! Vive la coopération et la solidarité entre les peuples ! Je vous remercie.
23. The President:   Thank you very much, Your Excellency. Our next speaker is Her Excellency Ms Janvière Ndirahisha, Minister of  Education, Higher Education and Scientific Research of Burundi. Your Excellency, the floor is yours.
24.1 Mme Ndirahisha (Burundi) :    Monsieur le Président de la 38e session de la Conférence générale de l’UNESCO, Monsieur le Président du  Conseil exécutif, Madame la Directrice générale de l’UNESCO, auguste assemblée, tout protocole observé, nous  voudrions d’abord rendre grâce à Dieu Tout Puissant qui nous a guidés tout au long de notre voyage et qui continue  d’être à nos côtés durant notre séjour à Paris. Permettez-moi de vous présenter, au nom du Gouvernement du Burundi,  au nom de ma délégation et en mon nom propre, les salutations du peuple burundais et de S. E. M. Pierre Nkurunziza,  Président de la République du Burundi.
24.2 Monsieur le Président, en ce moment inoubliable, c’est pour nous un grand honneur et un réel plaisir de nous  acquitter d’un agréable devoir, celui de vous présenter nos vives et sincères félicitations à l’occasion de votre élection à  la présidence de cette 38e session de la Conférence générale de l’UNESCO. Nous ne doutons pas que vous vous  acquitterez avec succès des lourdes mais nobles tâches qui vous ont été confiées et nous vous assurons du ferme  soutien de la République du Burundi.
24.3 Nous saisissons également cette opportunité pour adresser nos félicitations à l’UNESCO pour son
70e anniversaire et, en particulier, à Mme Irina Bokova pour la sagesse et la diligence avec lesquelles elle conduit les  destinées de notre prestigieuse organisation.
24.4 Monsieur le Président, le Burundi est en train de se relever, difficilement mais courageusement, d’une dure crise  politico-sociale de plus d’une décennie, et très dernièrement de violences pré- et post-électorales. Les avancées  significatives qu’il est en train d’enregistrer sont dues à la ferme volonté de la population burundaise de se réconcilier et  d’œuvrer main dans la main au développement socioéconomique du pays, ainsi qu’aux soutiens multiformes des pays  amis et des organisations internationales, dont l’UNESCO. En effet, l’UNESCO a toujours été aux côtés du peuple
113  burundais au plus fort de la crise en créant, en 1994, la Maison de l’UNESCO pour la culture de la paix au Burundi, qui  garde sa dénomination et sa raison d’être encore aujourd’hui. Ceci montre à suffisance que l’UNESCO reste résolument  déterminée à accompagner le Burundi dans le processus de consolidation de la paix et l’édification d’une société  inclusive, pacifique et résiliente dans un esprit de tolérance mutuelle.
24.5 Le soutien de l’UNESCO à l’État du Burundi s’est aussi manifesté à travers le Programme de participation : les  sept projets approuvés pour l’exercice biennal 2014-2015 ont tous été exécutés et leurs rapports viennent d’être  déposés. L’on ne saurait passer sous silence le Programme de renforcement des capacités en faveur de l’EPT  (CapEPT), qui est fonctionnel depuis 2011 et qui aide le Burundi à améliorer la qualité de la formation et de la gestion  des enseignants, alors que le Gouvernement du Burundi a entrepris de réformer son système éducatif avec l’école  fondamentale de 9 ans, la formation post-fondamentale et le système Baccalauréat-Mastère-Doctorat au niveau de  l’enseignement supérieur.
24.6 Monsieur le Président, le Burundi est une des victimes des effets dévastateurs des changements climatiques.  Le 9 février 2014, des pluies diluviennes se sont abattues sur les quartiers Nord de la capitale du Burundi, faisant  plusieurs morts et laissant des familles entières dans la désolation. Nous remercions vivement l’UNESCO qui nous a été  très proche, notamment en fournissant une aide d’urgence aux écoles victimes de cette catastrophe. D’autres actions de  bonne volonté de l’UNESCO à l’endroit du peuple burundais se sont aussi manifestées ces deux dernières années, entre  autres, l’octroi de bourses coparrainées et la facilitation de la coopération des commissions nationales pour l’UNESCO,  tant aux niveaux sous-régional et régional qu’international.
24.7 Monsieur le Président, le Burundi se réjouit de l’inscription de l’Afrique et de l’Égalité des genres parmi les  priorités de l’Organisation et réaffirme sa ferme volonté de rester fidèle à l’Acte constitutif de l’UNESCO et à promouvoir  ses idéaux de paix et de développement équitable et durable à travers les six programmes phares, profondément  intersectoriels, élaborés lors de la consultation d’Abidjan (Côte d’Ivoire) en juin 2012.
24.8 Avec l’appui de l’UNESCO, du Fonds commun de l’éducation et du Conseil interuniversitaire de l’Afrique de l’Est,  le Gouvernement du Burundi a organisé, en décembre 2014, une grande réflexion dans le cadre des États généraux de  l’éducation qui ont connu une grande mobilisation des acteurs et partenaires du secteur Éducation. Cette réflexion nous  a aidés à faire une évaluation à mi-parcours de notre plan de développement du secteur de l’éducation et de la formation  et à produire une série de recommandations – 29 au total – avec une feuille de route pour leur mise en œuvre. Les défis  à relever, que ce soit au niveau de l’accès et de la qualité ou du pilotage du secteur Education, nécessiteront  l’engagement de tous. Nous appelons donc l’auguste assemblée ici réunie à nous prêter main forte.
24.9 Au vu des défis actuels, qui interpellent notre conscience, l’UNESCO a besoin, aujourd'hui plus qu'hier, que les  États membres s’engagent en faveur de la mise en œuvre des projets innovants qu'elle ne cesse de présenter. Ainsi  puis-je lancer un appel aux États membres et aux âmes généreuses pour qu’ils contribuent efficacement à la réalisation  des objectifs que l’Organisation s'est fixés pour le bien-être de toute l’humanité et la création d’un monde meilleur pour  les générations futures.
24.10 Monsieur le Président, auguste assemblée, je ne saurais terminer mon propos sans réitérer mes vifs et sincères  remerciements à la Directrice générale et souhaiter plein succès à la 38e session de la Conférence générale de  l’UNESCO. Je vous remercie.
25. The President:   Thank you very much, Your Excellency. Our next speaker is Her Excellency Ms Ali Mariama Elhadj Ibrahim,  Minister for Primary Education, Literacy, Promotion of National Languages and Civic Education of Niger. Your Excellency,  the floor is yours.
26.1 Mme Elhadj Ibrahim (Niger):    Merci. Monsieur le Président de la 38e session de la Conférence générale de l’UNESCO, Monsieur le Président  du Conseil exécutif, Madame la Directrice générale de l’UNESCO, Mesdames et Messieurs les ministres et chefs de  délégation, Mesdames et Messieurs les délégués, c’est pour moi un réel plaisir de prendre la parole à l’occasion de cette
38e session de la Conférence générale de l’UNESCO qui coïncide cette année avec le 70e anniversaire de la création de  cette Organisation, pour féliciter l’UNESCO et tous les pays membres et pour vous féliciter également, Monsieur le  Président, à l’occasion de votre élection en qualité de président de cette session.
26.2 Permettez-moi aussi de réitérer, de vive voix, à la Directrice générale de l’UNESCO, Mme Irina Bokova, tous les  hommages mérités du Président de la République du Niger, Chef de l’État, S. E. M. Issoufou Mahamadou, pour le  dynamisme insufflé à cette Organisation qu’elle dirige avec efficacité, en dépit des difficultés d’ordre financier qu’elle  rencontre.
26.3 Mesdames et Messieurs, le Niger, faut-il le rappeler, est membre de l’UNESCO depuis 1960 et, à ce titre, a  toujours accompagné l’Organisation dans son combat pour la construction de la paix dans le monde par l’éducation, la  science, la culture et la communication, et dans sa lutte pour le rapprochement des peuples et des civilisations dans un  monde en proie aux crises sociales et aux conflits armés dont l’ampleur grandissante menace chaque jour la stabilité et  le développement durable des communautés.
26.4 Aussi le Niger approuve-t-il entièrement l’option choisie par l’UNESCO de faire du patrimoine le véritable levier  de la paix dans le monde. Cela est possible à travers le dialogue interculturel et toutes les autres formes d’expressions à  même de contribuer à l’équilibre social et à la consolidation de la paix. Au Niger, nous avons la ferme conviction que la  culture constitue le véritable levier de l’unité nationale. C’est pourquoi nous avons institutionnalisé un cadre d’expression
114  culturelle connu sous l'appellation de « cousinage ou parenté à plaisanterie » et nous nous réjouissons de son inscription  en 2015 sur la Liste représentative du patrimoine culturel immatériel.
26.5 Mesdames et Messieurs, dans le domaine de l’éducation et de la formation, le Niger s’inscrit pleinement dans  les orientations de l’objectif 4 des Objectifs de développement durable (ODD) et se félicite de l’adoption hier, à  l’unanimité, du Cadre d’action Education 2030. Il me plaît de rappeler que le Niger a défendu, à Kigali et à Incheon, deux  orientations pouvant contribuer au développement du système éducatif. La première concerne le programme  d’éradication de l'analphabétisme à l'horizon 2024, et la seconde l'importance des programmes d’alimentation scolaires  comme facteurs déterminants de l’accès et du maintien des élèves à l’école et comme vecteurs de développement et de  lutte contre la pauvreté à travers les achats d’aliments locaux auprès des petits producteurs.
26.6 Au niveau de l’enseignement secondaire, le Niger salue l’UNESCO et ses partenaires pour leur appui à la mise  en œuvre du projet d’électrification des écoles rurales, dont le but est de promouvoir l’utilisation d’énergies locales  renouvelables comme l’énergie solaire.
26.7 S’agissant de l’enseignement supérieur et de la recherche, nous saluons les efforts que l’UNESCO déploie dans  le cadre du Projet d’appui au développement des technologies de l’information et de la communication (PADTICE) pour  la mise en œuvre de la réforme LMD (Licence-Mastère-Doctorat) dans l’espace de l’Union économique et monétaire  ouest- africaine (UEMOA). Et dans le domaine de l’enseignement technique et de la formation professionnelle, le Niger a  gagné son pari en portant la proportion des apprenants de 8 à 21 % en cinq ans.
26.8 Dans le domaine de l’hydraulique et de l’assainissement, la mise en œuvre du programme national  d’alimentation en eau potable et d’assainissement 2011-2015 a permis de relever significativement le taux d’accès à  l’eau potable aussi bien en milieu urbain qu’en milieu rural, et le Niger envisage de développer une planification  stratégique et opérationnelle selon deux axes prioritaires correspondant à la Vision africaine de l’eau à l’horizon 2025.
26.9 Sur le plan de l’environnement et de la culture, le Niger dispose d’un important potentiel, avec trois sites déjà  classés au Patrimoine mondial de l’UNESCO. Il s’agit de la Réserve de biosphère de l’Aïr et du Ténéré, de la Réserve  de biosphère transfrontalière du W, et du Centre historique de la ville d’Agadez.
26.10 En ce qui concerne les phénomènes de changement climatique, le Niger a ratifié la Convention-cadre des  Nations Unies sur les changements climatiques (CCNUCC) ainsi que le Protocole de Kyoto.
26.11 Sur le plan de la communication, le Président de la République du Niger, S. E. M. Issoufou Mahamadou, est le  premier homme d’État à avoir adopté la Déclaration de la Montagne de la Table (DTM), qui dépénalise les délits de  presse et replace la liberté de la presse au cœur des discussions.
26.12 Mesdames et Messieurs, tous ces progrès ont été réalisés au Niger en dépit de la situation d’insécurité imposée  par les actes terroristes perpétrés par Boko Haram, AQMI et le Mujao à nos frontières avec le Niger, le Nigéria, la Libye  et le Mali. La gestion de ces crises grève nos ressources, risquant d’entraîner une baisse de nos indicateurs. C’est  pourquoi nous lançons un appel à la communauté internationale pour qu’elle soutienne le Niger dans ses combats  contre les forces obscurantistes afin de contrecarrer leur velléité de remise en cause de cet important acquis commun  qu’est le droit à l’éducation de nos enfants. Vive l’UNESCO ! Vive la coopération internationale. Je vous remercie.
27. The President:    Thank you very much Your Excellency. Our next speaker is His Excellency Mr Muhammad Baligh ur Rehman,  Minister of State of Federal Education and Professional Training of Pakistan. Your Excellency, you have the floor.
28.1 Mr Baligh ur Rehman (Pakistan):   Bismillāh ir-rahmān ir-rahīm (In the name of God, the Merciful, the Compassionate). Honourable Director- General, respected President of the General Conference, Excellencies, ladies and gentlemen, good morning and as- salāmu ‘alaikum (Peace be upon you). It is indeed a privilege and a great honour to contribute to the discussions at the
38th session of the General Conference. While UNESCO celebrates its 70th anniversary, Pakistan admires,  acknowledges and strongly supports the continued efforts of UNESCO in the critically vital and important sectors of  education, culture and science. UNESCO’s role in shaping up and finalizing the educational agenda for the Sustainable  Development Goals (SDGs) in the 2030 Agenda is truly commendable.
28.2 A dynamic and strong organization has to be ever-evolving and should continue reforming itself from within.  Pakistan wants to see UNESCO grow stronger and more effective. After finalizing the education agenda and adopting  the framework of action for SDGs in the 2030 Agenda, now UNESCO has to prove its relevance and effectiveness  through demonstrating results in its strategic areas of intervention, not only by keeping oversight and mapping the  progress towards achieving the relevant goals, but also has by being very effective in ensuring financing for development  and official development assistance (ODA) targets, without which all of us know that it will remain a shattered dream.
28.3 The Sustainable Development Goals for 2030 are human-centred targets. They talk of every child, every human  being and our planet Earth without any discrimination. Pakistan stands fully committed to these goals, so much so that  we have declared and adopted them as our national development goals for 2030. We have established cells for SDGs  which are fully functional now at foreign offices, the Ministry of Planning, Ministry of Health and Ministry of Education,  while remaining relevant ministries are in the process of doing the same. Our national strategy and plans are being  aligned with these ambitious goals. The current federal and provincial governments of Pakistan inherited huge problems  in education with millions of out-of-school children, high drop-out rates, gender disparity and low literacy rates. Within the  first year of the new government, that is in 2013-14, we saw that all the provincial governments were spending one  quarter of their entire budget on education. The results were impressive. Within one year, the number of out-of-school
115  children dropped by 10%. Net enrolment went up by 7%. The literacy rate went up by 3.5%. It is very promising, and  speaks volumes about our commitment, resolve and seriousness.
28.4 Ladies and gentlemen, the Director-General in her opening address made an appeal for advancing the  education of every child, especially girls. Girls’ education is very close to our hearts. Pakistan has seen those terrible  times when schools, especially girls’ schools, were being blown up by terrorists. All of us know the story of Malala  Yousufzai, the courageous daughter of Pakistan who stood up for education. Malala Yousufzai, a Nobel laureate now, is  a towering figure and is recognized throughout the globe as an icon for education, especially for girls’ education.  Pakistan by donating $10 million has helped create a UNESCO-Malala Fund to be utilized globally for the cause of girls’  education. I urge that all nations should contribute to this UNESCO-Malala Fund, no matter how big or small your  contribution is. All of us must be supportive of this noble cause.
28.5 Here I must also share with you that besides education, ending extremism has been one of the top four priorities  of the Government. After impressive ongoing military operations, legislation and other measures, the extremist elements  have either been taken out or are on the run. The incidence of terrorism and bomb blasts has been reduced significantly.  The areas where schools were being blown up or evacuated is now witnessing new schools being built. Extremists and  terrorists have lost and the Malala mind-set has won. But it is just the beginning.
28.6 Yesterday, I witnessed the impressive ceremony for the awarding of the UNESCO Avicenna Prize for Ethics in  Science. I congratulate UNESCO for duly recognizing and highlighting the importance of ethics in science which is much  needed today. I would also like to thank the Government of the Islamic Republic of Iran for co-sponsoring the Prize. Here,  I would like to congratulate the winner of the Prize, Dr Zabta Khan Shinwari, who is an accomplished Pakistani scientist,  for making us all proud of him and his achievements which are now being recognized globally. Here, I would also like to  draw the attention of the House towards weak conventions and legislation regarding stolen cultural artefacts. Pakistan  had to run from pillar to post, but we still could not get back our illegally excavated fasting Buddha and other numerous  artefacts which are still being illegally held in the United States. We must further strengthen our conventions in this  regard.
28.7 Excellencies, ladies and gentlemen, in the end let me emphasize that the very purpose of this august gathering  is to streamline international cooperation, bring about solidarity, promote tolerance and understanding and respect  other’s point of view to share good practices and synergize. These goals of human development cannot be achieved if  even a single nation or country or human being is left behind. No one should be allowed to remain behind for the lack of  resources or bad governance or anything else. Let us stand united for the common goal of a better future, a better world.  Thank you all.
29. The President:   Our next speaker on the list is Her Excellency, Dr Itah Kandjii-Murangi, Minister of Higher Education, Training  and Innovation of Namibia.
30.1 Ms Kandjii-Murangi (Namibia):   Mr President of the General Conference, Mr Chair of the Executive Board, Honourable Ministers, heads of  delegations, Excellencies, Madam Director-General, ladies and gentlemen, I congratulate the President of the 38th  session of the General Conference on his election to preside over this session. It is an honour for me personally to  address the plenary under your Presidency.
30.2.  As a country, we are humbled to be accorded the opportunity to preside over the supreme governing body of  UNESCO. This session is taking place after the adoption of the 2030 Agenda, which among other issues, recognizes  sustainable human development and poverty eradication as critical. Namibia is committed to eliminating poverty and to  promoting peace, tolerance and harmonious coexistence. The 38th session of the General Conference is also taking  place against the backdrop of the World Education Forum, which agreed on a common global education agenda.  Namibia embraces the Education 2030 agenda aimed at empowering the youth with skills, and promoting equity, access  and inclusivity.
30.3 Namibia acknowledges the importance of strategic university collaboration networks that facilitate expertise,  knowledge and research sharing. Hence, our desire to see the replication of the “Connect Asia” project in Africa. It is  platforms such as these that facilitate internationalization of higher education. Now is the opportune time for UNESCO to  re-align its efforts to contribute strategically to the attainment of the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). Namibia  supports a coordinated approach to the ongoing reforms, and is convinced that this will yield positive results for both  UNESCO and the Member States. My delegation is, however, concerned with the results of the outcome of the Internal  Oversight Service (IOS) evaluation of the field network reform in Africa. We therefore urge the Director-General to take  all the necessary steps to ensure the successful completion of the field network reform.
30.4 Culture plays a pivotal role in promoting diversity and social cohesion. Within the culture sector, Namibia  supports the protection and promotion of the tangible and intangible cultural heritage. It is in this context that Namibia will  host the tenth session of the Intergovernmental Committee for the Safeguarding of the Intangible Cultural Heritage.  Namibia would like to express gratitude to UNESCO for accepting our offer to host this session. On behalf of our  government and the people of Namibia, I warmly welcome you all to the tenth session to be held in our country.
30.5 We value the natural science programmes as the key enablers of sustainable development and poverty  eradication. Namibia supports programmes aimed at improving the interactions and relationships between people and  their environment.  In the same vein, we also acknowledge the need to safeguard our diversity and environmental  sustainability, and look forward to the outcomes of the twenty-first session of the Conference of the Parties (COP 21) to
116  the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change. We value the work of UNESCO’s expert bodies, such as  the International Bioethics Committee, which is vital in informing the interface issues between science and society.
30.6 Namibia promotes freedom of expression as a fundamental human right as proclaimed by the Windhoek  Declaration. We therefore appreciate the continued focus of UNESCO on the training of media practitioners and support  to community media, including radios, to facilitate and accelerate knowledge and information sharing. Finally, Namibia is  fully committed to the ideals of UNESCO and we look forward to our concerted efforts as Member States to deliver on  UNESCO’s strategic goals. I thank you all for your kind attention.
31. The President:   Thank you very much Your Excellency. Our next speaker is His Excellency Mr Akila Viraj Kariyawasam, Minister  of Education of Sri Lanka. Your Excellency, you have the floor.
32.1 Mr Kariyawasam (Sri Lanka):   Mr President of the General Conference, Mr Chair of the Executive Board, Madam Director-General, Your  Excellencies, ladies and gentlemen. At the outset, I wish to extend the warmest congratulations of my country to His  Excellency Stanley Mutumba Simataa, the newly elected President of the 38th session of the General Conference. Sri  Lanka would like to express to you our fullest cooperation. I would also like to place on record our sincere appreciation to  the outgoing President of the General Conference, His Excellency Mr Hao Ping, for his commendable leadership. I take  this opportunity to extend our gratitude to His Excellency Mohamed Sameh Amr, Chair of the Executive Board and his  team, for their excellent efforts during the past two years for the upliftment of the work of UNESCO. Under the excellent  stewardship of Ms Irina Bokova, UNESCO has managed to increase its visibility and contributed to the betterment and  sustainability of our planet. At this moment, I wish to express our appreciation to Madam Director-General.
32.2 Excellencies, ladies and gentlemen, a new era of democracy and good governance has dawned in Sri Lanka.  Today, we are rebuilding our country which suffered the consequences of 30 years of conflict, as a single nation of  multiple ethnicities. His Excellency the President, the Honourable Prime Minister and the Government of Sri Lanka have  given absolute priority to sensitive issues such as equitable quality education for all, sustainable development, social  cohesion and sustainable peace, and right to information.
32.3 Sri Lanka has provided universal free education at primary, secondary and university levels for the past six  decades. These sustained efforts in education, health and other social infrastructure sectors have managed to bring  about outstanding social development in Sri Lanka, securing the rank of 73 in the Human Development Report (HDR) of  the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP), ahead of other countries in the south Asian region. With the aim of  making Sri Lanka a knowledge hub in the region, the Government has decided to increase the investment in education to
6% of its gross domestic product (GDP) in a phased manner within the next three years.
32.4 Distinguished delegates, Sri Lanka will also reiterate the importance of education in promoting human rights,  human development, gender equality, a culture of peace and non-violence, global citizenship and aspiration of cultural  diversity. The Government is taking steps to set up a strong legal framework through new education reforms in assuring  reduction of the barriers to education and improvement of the quality of education at all levels. Initiatives such as the  early childhood care and education (ECCE) policy, the programme for the development of 1,000 secondary schools, the  “nearest is the best” school programme and the “sanitation first programme” are targeted to improve access to quality  primary and secondary education. Development of teacher education and school leadership, improvement of science,  and information and communication technology (ICT) are also identified as priority areas. We fully endorse the vision,  principles and targets laid down in the overarching goal to “ensure equitable and inclusive quality education and lifelong  learning for all by 2030”.
32.5 Ladies and gentlemen, we are fully aware of the global challenges of climate change and its consequences.  Being an island nation, the impacts are felt severely by us compared to most other countries. The current leadership in  Sri Lanka has placed the highest significance on environmental conservation and sustainable development. Special  emphasis has been given to preventing the degradation of forest and coastal areas, central highlands and other sensitive  ecosystems such as urban wetlands and water bodies.
32.6 Your Excellencies, Sri Lanka commends the UNESCO initiatives in protecting cultural heritage during conflict. It  is our responsibility to protect and promote tangible and intangible heritage of our countries for the generations to come.  We are in the process of strengthening and building capacities of the institutional setup for that purpose. The subject of  history has been made compulsory at the secondary-school level in my country to create awareness and appreciation of  these valuable assets among younger generations.
32.7 Distinguished delegates, the Government of Sri Lanka is implementing social protection and social safety-net  programmes to ensure social empowerment and welfare. Our special focus is on under-privileged and vulnerable groups.  These programmes are not confined to monetary assistance but also include improved accessibility, and capacity  building through vocational training to provide equal opportunities to them. It is my great pleasure to report that the  Government of Sri Lanka is in the process of enacting a bill to ensure access to information. The introduction of media  ethics and ensuring the rights and protection of journalists are new initiatives of the Government.
32.8 Ladies and gentlemen, in conclusion I would like to reiterate the importance of collective efforts to save this  planet from all the current challenges it faces. Sri Lanka pledges its fullest cooperation to the efforts of UNESCO to  realize the noble objective of building peace in the minds of men and women. I wish every success to the endeavours of  the 38th session of the UNESCO General Conference. May the Noble Triple Gem bless you all.
33. The President:   Thank you very much Your Excellency. Our next speaker is His Excellency Dr Lazarus Dokoro, Minister of  Primary and Secondary Education of Zimbabwe. Your Excellency you have the floor.
34.1 Mr Dokoro (Zimbabwe):   Mr President of the General Conference, Mr Chair of the Executive Board, Madam Director-General, Your  Excellencies and delegates. Mr President, my delegation congratulates you on your election and recognizes the sterling  work done by your predecessor, Professor Hao Ping. Your election is historic and is significant in that you are the first  president from the southern Africa subregion, and this is a cause for celebration. Mr President and Madam Director- General, you can count on my Government’s full support as you execute your onerous responsibilities. The 37th session  of the General Conference highlighted the fact that the Millennium Development Goals (MDGs) were an unfinished  business. A call was made to complete that business and to transcend those challenges. Thanks to the collective efforts  of Member States and the Secretariat under the able leadership of the Director-General there have been significant  achievements. These are reflected in the United Nations document “Transforming our world: 2030 Agenda for  Sustainable Development”, adopted by heads of State and government at the United Nations Sustainable Development  Summit 2015 in September 2015.
34.2 Madam Director-General, through your efforts Sustainable Development Goal (SDG) 4 has already been  transformed into a framework of action which was adopted yesterday by the Education 2030 High-Level Meeting.  Zimbabwe would like to acknowledge the efforts by the UNESCO Multisectoral Regional Office in Southern Africa in  coordinating the development of the regional and national frameworks of action for Education 2030.
34.3 Mr President, Member States of UNESCO should effectively mobilize resources for the successful  implementation of the national and regional frameworks. Zimbabwe has made significant progress from 2000-2015 in  promoting education for all. Madam Director-General, at the commencement of the current biennium, Zimbabwe had a  mere 90,000 learners at the early childhood development (ECD) level. ECD has been expanded to 451,000 currently and  mainstreamed in all primary schools as part of the infant school merger which now stands at 1.2 million. Of the required  teacher target of 11,000 by 2017, 3,960 teachers have so far been delivered at the infant school level. Access to primary  education throughout the country has been achieved through the establishment of over 1,400 satellite schools in new  resettlements and remote rural villages. From infants to high school, the total enrolment is 4.1 million learners. The  gender parity index stands at 0.98, and the steady improvement in completion rates at primary and secondary levels  stand at 77% and 65% respectively. Zimbabwe recently completed the development of a science- and skills-oriented  curriculum for basic education which emphasizes technical and vocational education and training (TVET), information  and communication technologies (ICTs) and science, technology, engineering, mathematics and arts – issues which will  receive added focus in the period 2016 to 2030. Zimbabwe’s literacy rate stands at 92.4% and is currently the highest in  Africa and the greater part of the developing world.
34.4 At the tertiary level, females outnumber males at teacher-training colleges, constituting 74% of the enrolment.  However, in the polytechnics and universities, female enrolment stands at 40%. Mr President, we have put in place  strategies to increase the participation of women in this regard. On average we only have 28.5% women teachers for  science and mathematics in the current establishment. Our focus in the next 15 years is to improve quality learning  outcomes through teacher capacity development, the provision of housing for teachers, and the use of ICTs and other  emerging technologies. To this end, the Government of Zimbabwe greatly appreciates the inclusion of Zimbabwe in the  UNESCO Korean Funds-in-Trust for rolling out ICTs in education. The SDGs have embraced science technology and  innovation, which resonates well with Zimbabwe’s national aspirations to build capacities in science and engineering as  contained in its own blueprint “Zimbabwe’s agenda for socio-economic transformation”
34.5 Zimbabwe was honoured to host the second edition of the UNESCO-Africa engineering week on the theme  “engineering innovation for accelerated infrastructure development for Africa”. In line with the aspirations of Africa stated  in the African Union (AU) Agenda 2063, Zimbabwe seeks to eradicate poverty through promoting well educated and  skilled citizens. Both our national constitution and the economic blueprint set the tone for social transformation and the  promotion of an inclusive society based on fundamental human rights.
34.6 Mr President, support is needed in the area of scientific research which can contribute to the development of  modern infrastructure and modern agriculture for increased production. Since communication transcends all areas of  UNESCO’s areas of competence, there is need for collaboration with education, science and culture. Mr President, as  host of the UNESCO Multisectoral Regional Office in Southern Africa, my government will spare no effort to support the  Office so it can deliver on its mandate. Mr President, I take this opportunity to promise you that you will not walk alone in  the journey you have started. Thank you.
35. The President:   Thank you very much Your Excellency. Our next speaker is Her Excellency Ms Monica Babuc, Minister of  Culture of the Republic of Moldova. Your Excellency you have the floor.
36.1 Mme Babuc (République de Moldova) :    Monsieur le Président de la Conférence générale, Madame la Directrice générale de l’UNESCO, Excellences,  Mesdames et Messieurs, permettez-moi de joindre ma voix à celle de toutes les délégations qui m’ont précédée pour  vous féliciter, Monsieur le Président, de votre élection et de la manière avec laquelle vous dirigez cette session. Je  souhaiterais également rendre hommage à votre prédécesseur, M. Hao Ping, pour l’excellente manière dont il s’est  acquitté de son mandat, mais aussi au Président du Conseil exécutif et à l’ensemble des membres de cet organe, qui  méritent tous nos félicitations.
36.2 C’est avec joie que je constate que l’UNESCO, à son 70e anniversaire, est une des institutions les plus viables  du système des Nations Unies, et je suis sûre que l'éducation, la science et la culture continueront à être les principaux  catalyseurs pour la paix dans le monde et pour les contacts interhumains. Au cours de ces dernières années, la  République de Moldova s’est focalisée, en grande partie, sur les processus liés à l'intégration européenne et sur la  sauvegarde du patrimoine culturel matériel et immatériel. En 2014, nous avons adopté une stratégie nationale de  développement de la culture, qui définit les voies de développement jusqu’en 2020 et se propose de faire de la culture  une priorité nationale à travers la sauvegarde et la mise en valeur du patrimoine culturel et le développement de  l’industrie créative. Cette année, une de nos grandes réussites a été l’adhésion de notre pays au programme européen  « Europe créative ».
36.3 La coopération de la République de Moldova avec l'UNESCO connaît aussi un développement sans précédent.  Avec nos collègues roumains, nous avons fait inscrire un premier élément du patrimoine moldave sur la Liste  représentative du patrimoine culturel immatériel, le 5 décembre 2013. Il s’agit d’un rituel de Noël, le colindat de groupe  d’hommes, répandu en République de Moldova et en Roumanie. Ces deux dernières années, nous avons travaillé  intensément sur trois autres dossiers multinationaux, avec la Roumanie, la Bulgarie, la Serbie, la Turquie, l'ex- République yougoslave de Macédoine et la Croatie.
36.4 Le dossier des « Pratiques culturelles associées au 1er mars » est un dossier multinational incluant certains  pays des Balkans qui partagent la même fête au début du printemps et qui souhaitent faire inscrire le « mărţişor » sur la  Liste représentative du patrimoine culturel immatériel lors de la 10e réunion du Comité intergouvernemental de la  Convention de 2003, qui aura lieu du 30 novembre au 4 décembre 2015 en Namibie.
36.5 En 2014, la République de Moldova a soumis à l’attention de l’UNESCO le dossier sur le paysage  archéologique d'Orheiul Vechi, finalisé cette année. Orheiul Vechi est un lieu unique, sans doute le plus représentatif de  Moldova, qui associe la beauté de canyons sauvages à l’histoire millénaire des civilisations européennes et asiatiques.
36.6 En ce qui concerne les indicateurs UNESCO de la culture pour le développement, je voudrais évoquer notre  collaboration avec le Bureau de l'UNESCO à Venise en 2015. La République de Moldova fait partie des premiers pays  européens à avoir accepté de calculer ces indicateurs, qui permettront de montrer l’apport polyvalent de la culture au  développement durable du pays, en commençant par la croissance économique et en terminant par des questions liées  à l'égalité entre les sexes et au degré de confiance interpersonnelle. Mis au point dans le cadre de la Convention sur la  protection et la promotion de la diversité des expressions culturelles, ce projet représente pour mon pays une excellente  feuille de route pour les années à venir.
36.7 Mesdames, Messieurs, l’éducation est une priorité nationale en République de Moldova. Elle constitue un  facteur fondamental dans le processus de transmission et de création de nouvelles valeurs culturelles et humaines, de  reproduction et de développement du capital humain, et de formation de la conscience et de l'identité nationales.  L’Accord d’association de la République de Moldova avec l’Union européenne signé l’année dernière comporte des  volets sur l'éducation, la culture et la science. Les réformes structurelles prévues par le nouveau Code de l’éducation et  par la Stratégie sectorielle de développement de l’éducation pour la période 2014-2020 contribueront à l’amélioration du  système éducatif moldave et faciliteront les échanges universitaires, sachant que la République de Moldova est déjà  activement impliquée dans le programme de l’Union européenne Erasmus+.
36.8 Ces dernières années, la communauté scientifique moldave a également fait partie des bénéficiaires du  processus d'intégration européenne du pays. L'Union européenne ayant lancé, en 2014, un nouveau programme-cadre  pour la recherche et l'innovation « Horizon 2020 », le Gouvernement moldave, à l'initiative de l'Académie des sciences  de Moldavie, a favorisé la création des conditions nécessaires à la poursuite de l'intégration dans l’Espace européen de  la recherche.
36.9 Mesdames et Messieurs, permettez-moi de saluer les réformes de l'UNESCO, qui viennent anticiper les  importantes évolutions du monde contemporain et redéfinissent le rôle de la culture, de l'éducation et de la science. La  République de Moldova souscrit à ces tendances auxquelles elle essaye de se rallier depuis quelques années. J’ai la  ferme conviction que le rôle grandissant de l'UNESCO dans le progrès de l’humanité permettra, à travers la culture,  d’apporter la paix et le bien-être dans le monde entier. Je vous remercie de votre attention.
37. The President:   Thank you very much Your Excellency. Our next speaker is His Excellency Mr Magele Mauiliu Magele, Minister  of Education, Sports and Culture of Samoa. Your Excellency, you have the floor.
38.1 Mr Magele (Samoa):   Mr President, Madam Director-General, Excellencies, ladies and gentlemen, I am truly honoured to present once  again at this significant conference. I wish to extend to UNESCO our heartfelt appreciation for its continuing assistance in  multiple ways to ensure the world that we live in is a better place. Your mission to contribute to the building of peace,  poverty eradication, lasting development and intercultural dialogue with education as one of the key pillars to achieve this  aim needs reiterating. This is why Samoa is committed to UNESCO and I wish to give assurance that we will continue to  be proactive in our efforts to contribute to the achievement of our collective vision and fundamental duty for a better world.  In my address at the previous session of the General Conference, I highlighted some of our achievements and this  included joining the 2003 Convention for the Safeguarding of the Intangible Cultural Heritage.
38.2 This morning, I am pleased to inform you also that Samoa has signed the instrument of accession to the 2005  UNESCO Convention on the Protection and Promotion of the Diversity of Cultural Expressions. Samoa is keen to  continue its active involvement in all areas including culture, sport, education, communication, climate change and  information technology, to name but a few. On another positive note, I wish to especially thank the Director-General of
119  UNESCO and all the United Nations family for your invaluable presence and contribution at the Third International  Conference on Small Island Developing States (SIDS) hosted by Samoa in September last year. This conference was an  opportunity to launch a significant partnership that will provide in particular our share of the agenda for sustainable  development, not just within but beyond the Pacific arena. The adoption of the new set of Sustainable Development  Goals by the United Nations family of nations calls for united efforts across the world. Samoa is committed to education  for sustainable development, not only for the Pacific, but more importantly, the world.
38.3 As highlighted by our Prime Minister at the 70th session of the United Nations General Assembly in New York  this year, there is a dire need for all countries to take concerted action to combat climate change and its impact. This is  also a priority goal enshrined in the SIDS Accelerated Modalities of Action (Samoa) Pathway, the outcome document of  the Third International Conference on Small Island Developing States.
38.4 Mr President, the small island States of the Pacific region are experiencing the impacts of climate change more  than other countries and the risks exposed are a threatening reality we live with on a daily basis. The adverse effects of  climate change are real, and as leaders of our global community, the time to act is now. The debates held around the  world have been numerous and attest to the urgency of the issues that threaten our existence. I wish to reiterate the  point I made earlier, that education is the key, the answer to all the dilemmas we face. This was the key message we all  took away from the UNESCO World Conference on Education for Sustainable Development held in Aichi-Nagoya, Japan,  in 2014 and the World Education Forum held in Incheon, Republic of Korea, in May 2015. Our commitment to climate  change, poverty reduction, protection of the natural environment and cultural heritage can only be consolidated and  made effective through education. We need to pay more attention to the importance of investing in our youth, natural and  social sciences and culture as well. Young people are not just the future – they are the key drivers of change and can  make a huge difference if their role is to be taken to another level. I salute UNESCO’s initiatives for youth around the  world and appeal for more opportunities for young people. They can bring fresh ideas and enthusiasm and vitality which  can lead to more innovative development to benefit society and the world at large.
38.5 It is important to bring in more and more of the natural and social sciences as they are also important to our  understanding of the world and the use and development of techniques that are essential to life. Culture is our foundation,  a means to preserve and nurture cultural heritage and traditions across the globe and must continue to be a big part of  our deliberations.
38.6 The Pacific region countries acknowledge the dedicated efforts made by the UNESCO Secretariat, and in  particular the UNESCO Office in Apia, to assist our efforts in various initiatives, including the following: literacy and  numeracy; teacher quality; school leadership; developing professional standards for teachers; early childhood education;  anti-doping in sports; integrating sustainable development, including climate change, HIV and AIDS, and disaster risk  management into education. Mr President, the challenges we face across the world are growing by the minute and we  can only combat these through united efforts and using education as our tool to bring about positive change, empowering  the younger generation and ensuring a better world for them.
38.7 Finally, I wish to close by saying that Samoa is a candidate for election to Executive Board because of the  genuine and strong commitment of the people of Samoa and the Pacific to peace and international understanding as well  as the Government’s commitment to education, science, culture and communication in Samoa, the Pacific and the world.  May God bless you all. Fa’a-soifua ia.
39. The President:   Thank you very much Your Excellency. Our next speaker is Her Excellency Ms Khin San Yee, Minister of  Education of Myanmar. Your Excellency you have the floor.
40.1 Ms Yee (Myanmar):   Mr President, Madam Director-General, distinguished delegates, it is a great honour for me to participate in the
38th session of the General Conference of UNESCO. On behalf of the delegation of Myanmar, I would like to  congratulate you Mr President on your election as President of the 38th session of the General Conference of UNESCO.  With your capable leadership and guidance, we firmly believe that the General Conference will yield many fruitful insights  and reach a successful conclusion.
40.2 Mr President, since March 2011 Myanmar has initiated many reforms based on promoting democratic  governance, people-centred development and established a stable basis for peace and continued progress. These  reforms have offered the people of Myanmar better, safer and more productive lives and represent an opportunity for the  country to resume its place as one of the dynamic economies in Asia. As a result, the estimated growth rate of the  country’s gross domestic product (GDP) has seen a sharp increase to almost 8% per year, coupled with active social- sector development reform projects to address poverty reduction and social welfare for improved livelihoods.
40.3 Mr President, UNESCO, along with other development partners, has actively supported Myanmar’s reforms in  this historic transition. Over the past three years the education sector has embarked on a promising reform agenda  marked by significant increases in education spending, and the first comprehensive education sector review in over
20 years, including the development of a costed national education sector plan.
40.4 In line with the global post-2015 education agenda, the Ministry of Education remains committed to improving  access for all to quality learning opportunities. In partnership with UNESCO, we are implementing projects on supporting  and developing national education plans, improving quality of teacher training, skills development for youth, information  and communication technology (ICT) for education, non-formal education, higher education reform and several other  initiatives.
40.5 Along with education, we have achieved substantial gains in culture preservation and environmental  conservation, which is at the heart of the sustainable development policy of Myanmar. Last year, Pyu Ancient Cities was  inscribed as Myanmar’s first site on the World Heritage List, and seven natural heritage sites were also added for the first  time to the 14 other sites from Myanmar on the World Heritage Tentative List. Myanmar has initiated the nomination  process for the Bagan Archeological Area and Monuments and the Northern Mountain Forest Complex. This year,  Myanmar also inscribed Inlay Lake as the first biosphere reserve in Myanmar under UNESCO’s Programme on Man and  the Biosphere.
40.6 UNESCO and the Ministry of Information and media stakeholders are working closely on promoting freedom of  expression and strengthening the media development sector. For the past four years, Myanmar has been  commemorating World Press Freedom Day with support from UNESCO, and has been conducting a series of national  dialogues for the promotion of a free, fair, transparent and vibrant media. UNESCO is supporting Myanmar in media  legislation, safety of journalists, capacity building got journalists, and increasing access to information for marginalized  people for better livelihoods.
40.7 Mr President, in a short time span, Myanmar has made great leaps across all sectors, but there are many  challenges which Myanmar is actively addressing. For delivery of quality education, more resources will be allocated,  and sound national strategic plans will be implemented, with a focus on human resources development through an  inclusive approach. As we are going through rapid economic growth and infrastructure projects, cultural preservation and  environmental conservation is being given top priority, with the full participation of local communities and stakeholders as  key players in this process.
40.8 To conclude, allow me to take this opportunity to thank UNESCO, especially the UNESCO Office in Yangon for  its proactive and consistent support to our reform process in all spheres of UNESCO’s broad mandate. We look forward  to continuing our close collaboration with UNESCO to jointly address challenges for the betterment of the lives of the  people of Myanmar. I thank you all for your attention.
41. The President:   Thank you very much Your Excellency. Our next speaker is Her Excellency Ms Eléonore Ladékan, Minister of  Pre-school and Primary Education of Benin.
42.1 Mme Ladékan (Bénin) :   Monsieur le Président de la Conférence générale, Monsieur le Président du Conseil exécutif, Madame la  Directrice générale de l’UNESCO, Mesdames et Messieurs les chefs de délégation, Mesdames et Messieurs, permettez- moi, Monsieur le Président, de vous adresser par ma voix et celle de mon collègue en charge de la culture, ici présent,  les salutations et les félicitations du peuple béninois et de son chef, le Docteur Thomas Boni Yayi, pour votre brillante  élection à la présidence de la 38e session de la Conférence générale de l’UNESCO. Je voudrais également saisir cette  occasion pour vous féliciter, Madame la Directrice générale de l’UNESCO et toute votre équipe, pour votre dynamisme à  la tête de cette prestigieuse institution.
42.2 Mesdames et Messieurs, au sortir de la seconde guerre mondiale, il parut nécessaire à la communauté  internationale de créer, avec le Traité de Londres, l’Organisation des Nations Unies pour l’éducation, la science et la  culture (UNESCO). La pertinence que revêt notre Organisation aujourd'hui plus qu’hier nous est brutalement rappelée  par les grands défis contemporains. En effet, après les objectifs du Millénaire pour le développement, les chantiers les  plus importants auxquels l’UNESCO doit apporter sa précieuse contribution restent prioritairement l’éducation, la culture,  les sciences, les mathématiques et les technologies de l’ingénieur, la jeunesse et l’éducation, l’équité des genres.
42.3 Mon pays, le Bénin, se réjouit du rôle prépondérant que l’UNESCO a joué et continue de jouer pour affirmer son  leadership aux côtés des autres organisations du système des Nations Unies. Ce leadership, qui s'est traduit par la prise  en compte de la dimension culturelle du développement dans l’élaboration des Objectifs de développement durable et  par la parfaite organisation et coordination du Forum mondial sur l’éducation – tenu à Incheon, en Corée, du 19 au 22  mai 2015 –, donne des raisons d'espérer que l’UNESCO continuera d'être l’un des bras opérationnels des Nations Unies  dans la mise en œuvre des ODD. Je reste persuadée que le Cadre d'action Éducation 2030, adopté hier au cours de  cette session, constituera la boussole des actions futures qui seront menées en faveur de l’éducation dans nos pays.
42.4 Le Bénin exprime toute son appréciation à l’UNESCO pour ses appuis multiformes en faveur de notre système  éducatif, de la sauvegarde et de la promotion de notre patrimoine culturel, de la promotion de la culture de la paix à  travers l’organisation du Symposium international sur le dialogue interreligieux et interculturel, tenu à Cotonou du 26 au
28 mai 2015. De même, il me plaît de souligner, ici, la vision prospective de notre Organisation qui a compris qu'en  Afrique, le développement de l’éducation en milieu rural est tributaire de la disponibilité de l’énergie électrique et de  l’accès aux technologies de l’information et de la communication. L'électrification et la mise à disposition de l'Internet au  profit de 15 écoles rurales par pays, au Bénin, au Togo, au Niger, en Mauritanie et à Madagascar, sont à mes yeux la  parfaite illustration de cette vision. Cet engagement de l’UNESCO est en totale harmonie avec la politique du  Gouvernement du Bénin qui a fait de l’éducation l’un des piliers de la lutte contre la pauvreté, en décrétant la gratuité de  l’éducation pour tous les apprenants de la maternelle et du primaire et pour les filles dans le premier cycle de  l’enseignement secondaire.
42.5 Je voudrais aussi évoquer les deux priorités auxquelles mon pays est fortement attaché : la priorité Afrique et la  priorité Égalité des genres, avec la mobilisation des jeunes. En ce qui concerne la priorité Afrique, j’ose espérer qu’une  attention toute particulière lui sera accordée dans les prochains programmes afin que le continent africain cesse d’être  une priorité à l’UNESCO. C'est pourquoi mon pays invite l’UNESCO à prendre les dispositions nécessaires, pour qu’en  parfaite collaboration avec les communautés économiques régionales et l’Union africaine, l’Histoire générale de l’Afrique
121  et son utilisation pédagogique ainsi que les projets La Route des pêches et La Route de l’esclave bénéficient de crédits  conséquents. Face à un monde en pleine mutation, où la jeunesse, avec les femmes, représente une force productive  importante, il serait suicidaire de ne pas créer des espaces d'épanouissement pour cette catégorie de la population qui  pourrait constituer à terme, si rien n’était fait, une véritable bombe pour la paix.
42.6 Le 70e anniversaire de notre Organisation commune est une heureuse opportunité pour mon pays, le Bénin, de  réaffirmer avec force son attachement aux idéaux de l’UNESCO, qu’il aurait fallu inventer si elle n’existait pas. Plein  succès à nos travaux. Bon anniversaire. Je vous remercie.  M. Sita Nsadisi José (Angola) prend la présidence.
43. Le Président :   Merci, Excellence. Notre prochain orateur est S. E. M. Rachid Benmokhtar, Ministre de l’éducation et de la  formation professionnelle du Maroc. Excellence, vous avez la parole.
44.1 M. Benmokhtar (Maroc) :   Monsieur le Président de la 38e session de la Conférence générale, Monsieur le Président du Conseil exécutif,  Madame la Directrice générale, Mesdames et Messieurs les ministres et chefs de délégation, Excellences, Mesdames,  Messieurs, permettez-moi tout d’abord de présenter mes vives félicitations à M. Stanley Mutumba Simataa pour son  élection à la présidence de la 38e session de la Conférence générale, ainsi que mes remerciements les plus sincères à  S. E. Mme Irina Bokova, Directrice générale de l’UNESCO, pour les efforts considérables qu’elle déploie inlassablement  afin de donner, à travers l’UNESCO, un plus grand rayonnement aux principes et objectifs de développement, de  progrès et de paix.
44.2 Honorable assistance, la mondialisation, avec ses crises et ses enjeux économiques, sécuritaires,  environnementaux et sociétaux, nous appelle aujourd’hui à développer une solidarité agissante. La succession des  crises, leur fréquence et l’ampleur de leur impact montrent clairement la nécessité de construire une nouvelle  gouvernance mondiale basée sur l’écoute, le dialogue, l’inclusivité et la responsabilité commune. De même, il est  d’autant plus déterminant d’apprécier la valeur ajoutée du pluralisme culturel que le capital immatériel de chaque pays  constitue, de nos jours, la véritable richesse de notre siècle. Désormais, nous nous trouvons tous à un tournant  historique, politique et économique qui nous invite à préserver, renforcer, voire même élargir des espaces de dialogue,  de paix et de compréhension mutuelle. Jamais nous n’avons eu autant besoin de l’UNESCO. Et c’est en restant  concentrés sur nos objectifs, à savoir l’éducation, le rapprochement entre les cultures, le partage des connaissances,  que nous pourrons lutter contre le fanatisme et les idéologies extrémistes, que nous parviendrons à assumer nos  responsabilités en tant qu’États membres de cette prestigieuse organisation.
44.3 Honorable assistance, le Maroc a érigé l’éducation et la formation en priorités nationales. Il poursuit  inlassablement ses efforts de réforme et de modernisation du système éducatif. L’enjeu est de pouvoir mieux former les  nouvelles générations, de répondre aux attentes de la jeunesse, d’accompagner le développement durable de notre  pays et de contribuer au développement du reste du monde. C’est dans ce contexte que Sa Majesté le Roi  Mohammed VI a chargé le Conseil supérieur de l’éducation, de la formation et de la recherche scientifique d’élaborer  une feuille de route ambitieuse pour la réforme de l’école marocaine. Cette feuille de route, qui est le fruit d’une  approche participative et inclusive et qui a été présentée à Sa Majesté le 20 mai 2015, repose sur la consolidation  « d’une école de l’équité, de l’égalité des chances, d’une école de qualité pour tous et pour la promotion individuelle et  sociale ». Ainsi, par des actions concrètes et une vision intégrée, le Maroc renouvelle son engagement au sein de  l’UNESCO pour « garantir une éducation de qualité et des possibilités d’apprentissage tout au long de la vie pour tous »,  objectif d’éducation universel de l’Agenda 2030 pour le développement durable. Des mesures concrètes sont en train  d’être mises en œuvre pour améliorer la qualité de l’éducation, qui incluent toutes l’approche genre.
44.4 Honorable assistance, le Maroc prône un développement durable intégré qui repose sur le caractère  indissociable des dimensions économique, sociale, culturelle et environnementale. En mars 2015, le gouvernement a  adopté une stratégie nationale de développement durable dont les objectifs et orientations devront, dès 2017, être  intégrés dans toutes les politiques publiques globales, sectorielles et régionales. C'est dans cet esprit que le Maroc s’est  orienté vers les énergies renouvelables, qui représenteront 42 % de l’énergie consommée par notre pays en 2030. Par  ailleurs, le Centre régional de catégorie 2 pour les énergies renouvelables établi au Maroc travaille pour une coopération  Sud-Sud renforcée, notamment avec les pays africains et ceux de la région. C'est également dans cet esprit que le  Maroc est un accompagnateur résolu du processus de réduction du réchauffement climatique. Après la COP7 tenue à  Marrakech en 2001, le Royaume compte réaffirmer son engagement stratégique en organisant en 2016, une fois encore  à Marrakech, la COP22.
44.5 Honorable assistance, Jérusalem, cette ancienne cité, symbole de paix, a toujours constitué un lieu unique dans  la mémoire de la coexistence entre les religions et de l'harmonie entre les groupes humains. Naturellement, nous ne  pouvons imaginer un règlement du conflit sans le maintien de l'identité historique des aspects particuliers de cette ville,  maintien auquel Sa Majesté le Roi Mohammed VI, Président du Comité Al-Qods, accorde une attention toute particulière.  De même, nous sommes vivement préoccupés par ce que la Directrice générale de l'UNESCO a qualifié « d’épuration  culturelle », qui touche particulièrement la région du Moyen-Orient. Nous appelons par ailleurs à une coordination plus  importante dans la lutte contre le trafic illicite des biens culturels car il s'agit bien d'un pillage inadmissible.
44.6 Mesdames, Messieurs, je conclurai par une citation de Sa Majesté le Roi Mohammed VI : « Le Maroc croit  intimement que l'affrontement n'existe qu'entre les ignorances. Quant aux civilisations, leur essence est l'interaction,  pour le bien de l’humanité, dans le respect des particularités identitaires et culturelles ». Je vous remercie.
45. Le Président :   Merci beaucoup, Excellence. Notre prochain orateur est S. E. M. Anies Baswedan, Ministre de l’éducation et de  la culture de l’Indonésie.
46.1 Mr Baswedan (Indonesia):   Mr President of the General Conference, Madam Director-General of UNESCO, Mr Chair of the Executive Board,  Excellencies, ladies and gentlemen. As-salāmu ‘alaikum wa-rahmatu llāhi wa-barakātuh (Peace and the mercy and  blessings of God be upon you). First of all, allow me to congratulate Ms Irina Bokova and the Secretariat for their  preparations for UNESCO’s Draft Programme and Budget for 2016-2017 (38 C/5) and participation in the post-2015  development agenda, focusing on the overall positioning of UNESCO and its contributions to the 17 Sustainable  Development Goals (SDGs). Indonesia welcomes the 17 SDGs and is committed to strong support of and collaboration  with UNESCO and other international agencies in the implementation of these goals. I think our achievement in  implementing these goals would be very much in line with the four fundamental principles of the Medium-Term Strategy  for 2014-2021 (37 C/4). I feel honoured that Indonesia is involved in the high-level International Commission on  Financing Global Education Opportunity which was launched by the Norwegian Prime Minister and the Secretary- General of the United Nations. The Commission, of which the Director-General is a co-convener together with the Prime  Minister of Norway and the Presidents of Chile, Indonesia and Malawi, is expected to invigorate global education  financing and identify more effective and better coordinated ways to deploy resources to ensure that all children are in  school.
46.2 Excellencies, ladies and gentlemen, let me express Indonesia’s concerns relating to all of UNESCO’s major  programmes. In the field of education, we are committed to the implementation of the Incheon Declaration and Education
2030 Framework for Action which has been adopted and which sets out a new vision for education for the next 15 years.  However, Indonesia is a nation of 254 million people living in 6,000 islands. The spread of geographical areas is quite  challenging, and therefore we will use advanced technology through information and communication technology (ICT)  applications to ensure that we will be able to reach the unreached, and to ensure that every citizen of Indonesia will have  access to education.
46.3 In order to improve the quality of education, we have resolved to empower education and cultural actors with  three main strategies to be undertaken. First, is to empower actors in the education systems, namely, teachers, school  leaders, and parents, and second, to improve the quality of and access to education and culture. The third, which is one  of our key strategies, is to boost efficiency and effectiveness in bureaucratic reform as well as to engage and work  closely with the public. In addition to this, we have established a new directorate which is focusing on primary education  to ensure that we will be partnering with parents to make sure that education is not only in the hands of our schools but  also engaging parents to be involved.
46.4 In the field of culture, Indonesia attaches high importance to cultural heritage, both tangible and intangible. We  have drawn up a new list of national heritage sites to be nominated as world heritage sites. After successfully organizing  the World Culture Forum in 2013, we are looking forward to organizing the next World Culture Forum on the theme  “Culture of Peace: Towards Global Harmony” which will be held from 3 to 7 September 2016 in Bali.
46.5 In the field of science, under the Programme on Man and the Biosphere, biosphere reserves in Indonesia have  multiplied the total area of conservation coverage, reaching over 18 million hectares of biosphere reserves. The research  carried out in Indonesia has been directed in the areas and problems related to environmental issues in the terrestrial  and marine arena. Under the International Hydrological Programme, we support programme activities related to ongoing  research projects in terrestrial ecosystem processes, water issues, landscapes, rivers, flat plains, and wetland reservoirs.
46.6 In the field of communication and information, Indonesia is committed to the issues of the free flow of information  and free access to sources of knowledge, which is deeply rooted in our Constitution. With this commitment, Indonesia  will celebrate World Press Freedom Day in 2017. In conclusion, we will continue to support UNESCO in its work to  achieve world peace in collaboration with all UNESCO Member States. I thank you.
47. Le Président :   Merci beaucoup, Excellence. Notre prochain orateur est S. E. M. Sergiy Kyslytsya, Vice-Ministre des affaires  étrangères de l’Ukraine.
48.1 Mr Kyslytsya (Ukraine):   Thank you Mr President, Madam Director-General, Mr Chair of the Executive Board, distinguished heads of  delegations. This session is very special, and this is not only due to the 70th anniversary of UNESCO. It is first and  foremost because the Organization marks this date while in a state of deep qualitative transformation. The second  decade of the twenty-first century has turned out to be extremely rich in new challenges that UNESCO should quickly  and adequately respond to. We are so closely and increasingly intertwined with political issues that this sometimes even  stirs discussions on whether some burning and urgent issues fall under UNESCO’s mandate or whether they are purely  political.
48.2 For Ukraine, especially as a newly elected non-permanent member of the United Nations Security Council,  UNESCO is one of the main cornerstones of the United Nations system. If this pillar turns out to be weak, the United  Nations building will eventually shatter. We unequivocally support efforts being undertaken by the Director-General and  the UNESCO Member States in the context of major reform under current circumstances. We are confident that in order  to keep UNESCO up with this phase of history, this strong UNESCO leadership devoted to United Nations values and  with outstanding integrity to be able to withstand external influence, this leadership which is able to be ready to face the  complex challenges of the new millennium, is imperative and vital.
48.3 Ukraine stands up for the proposals in the relevant decisions of the Executive Board including the establishment  of an ongoing government mechanism to be implemented in the intersessional meetings attended by observer States.  The new objectives have underlined the special significance of education which is at the heart of the mandate of our  Organization. We stand ready to continue our work in accordance with the outcomes of the World Education Forum.
48.4 Ukraine is ready to make a responsible contribution aimed at reinforcing strategy and action for countering  violent extremism through education and in the protection of cultural heritage and the promotion of cultural pluralism in  the event of armed conflict. I would also stress the strong commitment of my country to the protection and preservation of  the environment, resulting in harmonization of our legislation in order to consolidate and increase our presence in the  world network of biospheres reserves and for an assertive policy in renewable energy.
48.5 Excellencies and colleagues, speaking about the noble goals and tasks of our Organization, I cannot avoid  mentioning a part of the world where the principles of UNESCO are flagrantly violated and people are deprived of their  basic rights due to occupation by a foreign State. The testimonies we hear every day prove that the Russian Federation’s  temporary occupation of Crimea continues to lead to mass and systematic violations of fundamental rights and freedoms  of the citizens living on the peninsula. The latest example is the decree of the Russian government by which 220  Ukrainian cultural sites in Crimea were illegally enlisted as the federal property of Russia. I would like to draw your  attention to the fact that this step was undertaken just three days after the approval of the decision of the Executive  Board on the follow-up of the situation in Crimea. This unacceptable situation is further exacerbated by the total  information black-out imposed by the occupying authorities that has rendered consistent monitoring by international  organizations practically impossible. Taking into consideration the new decision on Crimea, adopted at the last session of  the Executive Board, we will spare no effort in order to facilitate the full use of UNESCO’s potential in order to prove that  the credibility and democratic power of our Organization can overcome the power of violence and injustice currently  ruling Crimea. We are looking forward to practical action by the Director-General to establish a monitoring mechanism at  the institutional level in line with the decision of the Executive Board.  (The speaker continues in French)
48.6 Chers représentants de notre famille mondiale de l’UNESCO, cette Conférence générale aura à débattre de  questions d’importance toute particulière directement liées à l’actualité internationale immédiate. Nous sommes tout à  fait d’accord avec la vision de la Directrice générale quant au rôle de notre Organisation, qui existe précisément pour  rappeler que c’est dans l’urgence qu’il faut justement ne rien céder sur les droits humains, sur la dignité humaine, sur le  respect des libertés fondamentales. C’est lorsque ces droits sont bafoués qu’il faut les rappeler avec davantage de force  et de conviction. Aujourd’hui, plus que jamais, l’UNESCO peut et doit fournir une réponse concrète et efficace aux défis  actuels dans tous ses domaines de compétence. Merci de votre attention.
49. Le Président :   Merci beaucoup, Excellence. Notre prochain orateur est le Docteur Patrick Nkanza, Secrétaire permanent au  Ministère de l’enseignement supérieur de la Zambie. Monsieur, vous avez la parole.
50.1 Mr Nkanza (Zambia):   Mr President of the General Conference, Mr Chair of the Executive Board, Madam Director-General, Honourable  Ministers, Excellencies, distinguished ladies and gentlemen. Mr President, Zambia congratulates you on your election as  President of the 38th session of the General Conference of UNESCO. Zambia further congratulates UNESCO on its 70th  anniversary. This year, Zambia is also celebrating 51 years of collaborative efforts with UNESCO, during which time  UNESCO has provided technical, material and financial support to Zambia in all the key competencies of UNESCO. We  recognize the recent work which UNESCO has conducted with us in the area of policy review.
50.2 Zambia has continued to make strides in the areas of education, science, technology and innovation, information  and communications and in culture. In the area of early childhood education (ECE), the Government is scaling up the  provision of ECE through detachment of early childhood education centres to existing schools, as well as establishing  centres in other communities. With respect to general education, Zambia recognizes that a comprehensive and inclusive  curriculum is fundamental to reaching learning goals. Thus, Zambia is engaged in an ongoing process of curriculum  reforms at all levels, coupled with harmonization of teacher-training curricula.
50.3 With respect to teacher education and training, Zambia wishes to express gratitude to UNESCO for the support  rendered in teacher development, particularly with respect to enhancing the teaching of information communication  technology (ICT) in general education. The teaching council of Zambia has been established to develop and maintain  standards in the teaching profession. With respect to adult literacy the Government is scaling up adult literacy  programmes by targeting the marginalized, including those in prisons and in remote areas. The quality of our adult  literacy programmes has been enhanced through the development of a national curriculum, materials in various local  languages, and training of literacy facilitators. In addition, some educators and curriculum developers underwent training  in a programme organised by UNESCO, UNESCO’s International Bureau of Education, the Open University of Tanzania,  and the Tanzania Institute of Education.
50.4 With respect to technical and vocational education and training, Zambia has introduced a two-tier education and  training system which provides a dual pathway between academic and vocational education at lower and upper  secondary education levels. To support this system, Zambia has also introduced a three-year vocational secondary  teacher diploma programme. In collaboration with the Government of the Republic of Korea, UNESCO has been working  with Zambia on skills development through the “Better Education for Africa’s Rise – (BEAR)” project. This cooperation  brings the experience of the Republic of Korea to Zambia and we look forward to the expansion of this programme.
50.5 In the areas of science, technology and innovation, Zambia has recognized the insufficient research and  development infrastructure and the scarcity of scientific human resources capable of harnessing the indigenous  knowledge base so as to promote the competitiveness of Zambia’s industry. In an effort to mainstream science,  technology and innovation, Zambia has planned to construct a science centre or a science complex, an initiative which  involves participation of cooperating partners as well as the private sector. Zambia appreciates efforts by UNESCO in the  establishment of a national bioethics coordinating committee whose role will, among other things, include coordinating  and networking the various bioethics committees in Zambia.
50.6 With respect to higher education, this sector has shown significant expansion with increasing participation of the  private sector. The Government has introduced the higher education authority to provide quality assurance to the  provision of higher education. In addition, the Government has also established the Zambia qualification authority whose  task is to manage and develop the Zambia qualifications framework. These measures are aimed at providing a platform  for the formal recognition and portability of our higher education qualifications.
50.7 With respect to information and communication, the Government is also bridging the information gap between  rural and urban areas by improving more frequency modulation (FM) transmitters and introducing radio academy  programmes at the University of Zambia.
50.8 With respect to culture, Zambia shares the global notion that no society can flourish without the expression and  preservation of its cultural heritage. Further, Zambia is committed to the realization of the objectives of the World  Heritage Convention. This Convention must help to uplift the standard of life of the local community by encouraging  economic activities such as investment in cultural tourism. In doing all this, we also pay tribute to UNESCO’s support in  providing equity and inclusiveness, and also providing for the development of energy, particularly in our rural areas. We  are committed to continuing cooperation with UNESCO and the maintenance of the values and principles which will  govern and guide this cooperation. We look forward, Mr President, to the successful completion and conclusion of  outcomes of the 38th session of the General Conference of UNESCO. Thank you.
51. Le Président :   Merci beaucoup, Monsieur Nkanza. Notre prochain orateur est S. E. M. Dato Zainidi Sidup, Ambassadeur et  délégué permanent du Brunéi Darussalam auprès de l’UNESCO. Excellence, vous avez la parole.
52.1 Mr Zainidi Sidup (Brunei Darussalam):   Mr President of the General Conference, Mr Chair of the Executive Board, Madam Director-General,  Excellencies, colleagues, ladies and gentlemen. Brunei Darussalam strongly supports Sustainable Development Goal  (SDG) 4, which is to ensure inclusive and equitable quality education and promote lifelong learning opportunities for all.  Brunei Darussalam believes that full access to quality education at all levels is an essential condition for accelerating  progress towards the achievement of other Sustainable Development Goals. In other words, sustainable development  begins with education, and UNESCO plays a major role in the implementation of SDG 4.
52.2 In the context of Brunei Darussalam, our priority areas on education are contained in our national vision known  as “Brunei Vision 2035”. By 2035, we wish to see Brunei Darussalam recognized everywhere for the accomplishments of  its well-educated and highly-skilled people. We will seek to build a first-class education system that provides  opportunities for every citizen and resident to meet the requirements of our changing economy, and to encourage lifelong  learning as well as achievements in the field of sport and the arts.
52.3 The current Ministry of Education Strategic Plan for 2012-2017, which has been formulated in line with the  objectives of Brunei Vision 2035, has identified seven grand initiatives which include, among others, Brunei technical  education transformation, teacher quality and professionalism, and integrated national education information system.
52.4 Mr President, the establishment of the Institute of Brunei Technical Education is Brunei’s effort towards  upgrading the technical and vocational education system. It is an expansion of the technical stream in line with the  demands of technological and economic development, and responds to various government and industry initiatives. It  involves collaboration with government and private industries to create innovative teaching and learning in order to  produce a skilled and competitive workforce. Through this transformation, access and opportunities for absorption into  technical and vocational education are widened for those who are not eligible to further their studies or for those who  have dropped out of school.
52.5 In addition to this, our Ministry of Education and the Energy Department of the Prime Minister’s Office have been  working very closely with the Ministry of Communication in setting up the Brunei Maritime Academy. The goal of the  Academy’s establishment is to produce a professional maritime workforce and seafarers accredited by the International  Maritime Organization and to meet the country’s need for personnel in the maritime industry. Mr President, other  initiatives which relate to the transformation of technical education in Brunei Darussalam include expanding  apprenticeship options and upgrading the training environment through the development of infrastructure to support more  students.
52.6 In August 2014, the Ministry of Education of Brunei Darussalam launched the “Brunei Teachers’ Standard” in  order to raise education standards and help teachers to do their jobs even more effectively. Teachers are now provided  with standards to help them reflect on their teaching practices and aspire towards providing high-quality teaching and  learning experiences for their students. Another initiative is the integrated national education information system (INEIS),  a centralized and integrated system for school administration, to be used by all Government schools. It is a “one system  for all” initiative, where information concerning the progress of a student can be seen across all levels. INEIS integrates  all school administration information such as attendance, discipline records and assessment for every student. Through  INEIS, information is stored centrally so that it may be readily accessible by authorized personnel. It will provide more
125  collaboration, transparency, efficiency, better coordination and improve foresight. With that, thank you for your kind  attention.
53. Le Président :   Merci beaucoup, Excellence. Notre prochain orateur est le Docteur Belio Kipsang, Secrétaire principal du  Département d’État au Ministère de l’éducation, des sciences et de la technologie du Kenya. Vous avez la parole,  Monsieur Kipsang.
54.1 Mr Kipsang (Kenya):   Mr President of the General Conference, Mr Chair of the Executive Board, Madam Director-General,  Excellencies, ladies and gentlemen. I join my colleagues, Mr President, in congratulating you on your election as the  President of the 38th session of the General Conference of UNESCO, which is also celebrating 70 years of the  Organization. On behalf of my delegation please accept our best wishes for a successful General Conference. We are  confident that you will effectively discharge the business of the 38th session of the General Conference.
54.2 I now wish to congratulate Ms Irina Bokova, the Director-General, for having steered successful reforms in  UNESCO and assure her of Kenya’s commitment to UNESCO’s ideals. My delegation supports the budget as outlined in  draft document 38 C/5. We appreciate the current budgetary constraints and hope that more support will be provided  through extrabudgetary support.
54.3 The 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development provides us with a framework for global action to build the future  we want for all. UNESCO has an important role to play in supporting Member States to translate the goals into concrete  action through its multisectoral and transdisciplinary approach to programme delivery.
54.4 Mr President, Kenya attaches great importance to education as a means of national development. Towards this  end, the Government has integrated early childhood education into primary education. Currently we are reforming our  curricula, modernizing teacher training, strengthening education and partnership. A policy framework for education and  training to meet the challenges of education, training and research in the twenty-first century has been developed.
54.5 Ladies and gentlemen, quality of education depends on the quality of teachers. Teacher management has been  reformed and improved to ensure optimal delivery of the curriculum. In addition, information and communication  technology (ICT) integration and continuous professional development have been institutionalized.
54.6 Mr President, science, technology and innovation (STI) is the foundation of socio-economic development. We  have reviewed our STI policy to address the challenges in the sub-sector. As a policy, the Government provides at least
2% of gross domestic product (GDP) to STI. Furthermore, we have established a national research fund which annually  provides $4 million for research; prepared policies for the establishment of a national physical science research  laboratory; established the Kenya Institute of Nanotechnology, a university research chairs programme and an STI  mentorship programme to enhance the participation of girls in science and technology subjects at secondary-school level.
54.7 We appreciate UNESCO’s work on biodiversity. However, illegal wildlife trade is one of the critical global issues  that deserve special attention to address the challenges. Kenya shares about 54% of our water resources with other  countries and is putting measures in place to mitigate the challenges of water scarcity. We thank UNESCO for partnering  with the Government in carrying out groundwater mapping to establish actual potential.
54.8 Ladies and gentlemen, Kenya remains committed to the promotion of social cohesion and reduction of  inequalities. Towards this end, Kenya has instituted youth empowerment programmes. In sports, Kenya is committed to  clean sport. Consequently, the Government has established a national anti-doping organization with a mandate to  prioritize education, training, testing and investigation in this field.
54.9 Mr President, Kenya has a rich varied culture which constitutes the foundation of our nation and is the  cumulative civilization of the Kenyan people. To date, Kenya has six heritage sites inscribed on the World Heritage List  and two intangible cultural heritage elements on the Urgent Safeguarding List. Legislative measures have been put in  place to preserve and manage the concerned heritage for posterity. The Government is in the process of ratifying the
2001 Convention on the Protection of the Underwater Cultural Heritage.
54.10 Mr President, Kenya places information communication and technology at the heart of its national development.   Kenya has a mobile subscriber penetration of 85.5% and Internet penetration of 70% which will promote a digital learning  literacy programme for schools, with special emphasis for people living with disability. The Government also promotes  freedom of expression and free media and will continue to create an enabling environment for the growth of broadcasting  and media freedom.
54.11 In conclusion, Mr President, I would like to assure you that Kenya remains committed to UNESCO’s ideals  through our specialized programmes in order to promote global peace and sustainable development. Thank you very  much.
55. Le Président :   Merci beaucoup, Monsieur Kipsang. Notre prochain orateur est S. E. M. Patricio Hales, Ambassadeur et  délégué permanent du Chili auprès de l’UNESCO. Excellence, vous avez la parole.
(56.1) Mr Hales (Chile) (translation from the Spanish):   Allow me, Mr President, to congratulate you on your election and to assure you of the fullest cooperation of the  Government of Chile and its delegation at this session of the General Conference. I am addressing this body for the first time  and I wish to say that I feel proud to be able to contribute to this institution, which has been a guiding light in promoting  education, science, culture and information. As we see in our own history, negative chapters can sometimes obscure the  enormous positive changes that have prevailed in this world. And we often fail to see how UNESCO has contributed to the  development and progress of humanity. None of today’s threats must drive us to alarmism. Our progress is full of  contradictions: the same humankind that has managed to make great advances in science is still incapable of lifting millions of  the world’s people out of illiteracy. We are not pessimistic; we are aware of our world’s contradictions. Great advances in  material terms have confronted us with the climate change crisis. The same countries that have managed to more than halve  poverty have been incapable of resolving their own inequalities. Hence the still-valid raison d’être of UNESCO and its  multilateral work. Progress, in terms of its effects and complexity, is non-linear and the work is never done. The same  institutions that have enabled us to stop the threat of nuclear war have not yet managed to prevent terrorism and scenes of  deaths by the thousand, families destroyed, waves of refugees on a scale that should have been forgotten, heritage sites  razed or the demolition of hundreds of schools are now commonplace.
(56.2) At the same time, however, there is more and more democracy in this world. All the gains made should fill us with  the optimism to confront those new threats and, moreover, to reaffirm with conviction the importance of this institution. The  promotion of multilateralism and the collective responsibility of States remain an enduring mission, and our mission must focus  on the road to peace agreements in a world in need of solutions to the contradictions of progress. The world we have to deal  with is always going to be shaped by successes and new threats. That makes the task of strengthening UNESCO as the  United Nations specialized agency par excellence in promoting education, science, culture and information a mandatory moral  obligation.
(56.3) The Organization therefore needs to continue its reforms, ensuring that it fulfils the mandate established by its  Member States by being more attuned to the challenges of an ever-changing world through more flexible structures, more  concrete results and duly-guaranteed funding. My country has the highest regard for what UNESCO stands for. We decisively
127  support the #Unite4Heritage initiative; we have ratified the Convention on the Means of Prohibiting and Preventing the Illicit  Import, Export and Transfer of Ownership of Cultural Property; we have inscribed the Baile Chino dances on the  Representative List of the Intangible Cultural Heritage of Humanity and, together with our cousins from Argentina, the  Plurinational State of Bolivia, Colombia, Ecuador and Peru, we have also added the Qhapaq Ñan (Andean Road System) to  the World Heritage List. Chile is providing $6 million to ensure that the efforts of the UNESCO Regional Bureau for Education  in Latin America and the Caribbean, based in Santiago, contribute to education work in the region, and President Michelle  Bachelet’s educational reform is in accordance with the objectives of UNESCO.
(56.4) Four of the main lines of action guiding the Chilean reform process tie in with the Goal 4 of the 2030 Agenda for  Sustainable Development which, thanks to the efforts of UNESCO, aims to ensure inclusive and equitable quality education  and promote lifelong learning opportunities for all, make education a genuine social good, ensure quality public education,  launch a new national teaching policy and develop higher education for the knowledge age. One of the aims of a bill drafted by  our Ministry of Culture and Heritage and soon to be presented to Parliament is to organize the various institutions promoting  culture and tangible and intangible heritage, with civil-society participation. Mr President, the values enshrined in UNESCO’s  Constitution are more valid than ever and we reaffirm the commitment of Chile to protecting dignity, equality and respect  among people and States, with the same respectful language as used in addressing this assembly today, by protecting  freedom and peace, which are part and parcel of the dignity of the individual and a sacred duty. That is all. Thank you.
57. Le Président :   Merci beaucoup, Excellence. Mesdames et Messieurs, sur ce, nous avons conclu la première partie de notre  journée. Permettez-moi d’informer les chefs de délégation et tous les délégués que la plénière reprendra cet après-midi  à 15 heures précises, soit 3 heures pm. Nous vous demandons donc un effort pour que l’on débute à temps. Je vous  souhaite un agréable déjeuner. La séance est close. Merci.    The meeting rose at 1.10 p.m.  La séance est levée à 13 h 10   Se levanta la sesión a las 13.10  Заседание закрывается в 13.10  الظهربعد  ١,١٠رفعت اسلسة يف الساعة    会议于 13 时 10 分结束