1.1 The Temporary President (Mr Hao, President of the 37th session of the General Conference):   Mr Chair of the Executive Board, Madam Director-General of UNESCO, Excellencies, ministers, distinguished  ambassadors, friends and colleagues, representatives of intergovernmental and non-governmental organizations,  members of the media, ladies and gentlemen, I am pleased to welcome you to UNESCO, to the 38th session of its  General Conference. As President of the 37th session, and in accordance with Rule 28 of the Rules of Procedure of the  General Conference, I have the honour to preside over this meeting. I therefore declare open the 38th session of the  General Conference of the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization.
1.2 To celebrate the opening of the 38th session of the General Conference and the 70th anniversary of UNESCO,  it is my pleasure to introduce a musical moment by the Finnish composer Jean Sibelius. The music is played by the  Finnish string quartet Caje, which is a group of talented musicians and former students of the Sibelius Academy. The  Sibelius Academy is the highest-level music school in Finland and the flagship of Finland’s world-famous music training.  UNESCO is associated with the celebrations of the 150th anniversary of the birth of Jean Sibelius, and we will have great  pleasure in listening to two pieces which will open our General Conference in a most inspiring way. Thank you.   (Musical interlude)
(2.1) The Temporary President (translation from the Chinese):   Mr Amr, Chair of the Executive Board, Ms Bokova, Director-General of UNESCO, heads of delegation, ministers,  Excellenices, ambassadors, friends from the media, ladies and gentlemen, good morning. This year marks the 70th  anniversary of the United Nations, as well as that of UNESCO. Seventy years ago, the heroes fighting fascism and giving their  young lives for world peace awakened humanity’s intuitive aspiration for peace and development. Seventy years ago, the  insightful founders, hailing the victorious outcome of the Second World War and cherishing an epoch-making hope that the
6  defences of peace would be constructed in the minds of men and women, created the United Nations Educational, Scientific  and Cultural Organization. In its 70-year history as an integral part of the United Nations system, UNESCO, through its efforts  to popularize science and education, protect cultural heritage, promote dialogue among civilizations and preserve cultural  diversity, has played a unique, important and irreplaceable role in maintaining and promoting world peace, global development  and the intellectual progress of humanity. Allow me to take this momentous opportunity to pay my deepest and most respectful  tribute to generations of people at UNESCO who have made significant contributions to the work of the Organization.
(2.2) Ladies and gentlemen, colleagues, when I was elected President of the General Conference of UNESCO exactly at  this moment two years ago, to applause and congratulations from you all, I made a solemn commitment that, working along  with each and every one of you, I would live up to my new responsibility within this Organization with its long history. My  memory of that moment is as fresh as ever. Two years ago, the Organization had accomplished outstanding achievements.  However, it must be admitted that it was faced with such major difficulties and crises that urgent reform was called for. Without  reforms, the implementation of resolutions adopted by the General Conference would be compromised. We had to develop  new ideas and concepts to introduce reforms, new mechanisms and methodologies to guarantee them, and greater  enthusiasm and more effective actions to realize them. I remember vividly that, as the then Director of the Secretariat of the  Governing Bodies showed me around the Secretariat offices on the very first day of my term of office, I was deeply touched to  see the members of staff working passionately, selflessly and cheerfully. In my two years in office as President, I have visited  UNESCO field offices in China, Cambodia, Cuba, the Islamic Republic of Iran, Thailand and Tunisia. What impressed me the  most was the moment when I met in Jordan with colleagues from the Iraq office who had just retreated from the battles in Iraq,  risking their lives in the conflict taking place in the region. What I saw on their faces was dedication, hope and faith. I  appreciate the wisdom of the Executive Board for the pivotal role it has played in restructuring the Organization’s  programmatic priorities, advancing reforms in the Secretariat, and ensuring the implementation of resolutions adopted by the  General Conference. I appreciate the generosity of Member States, which have brought about a steady increase in  extrabudgetary funding sources for the Organization. As the Chinese saying goes, “It is the firewood gathered by all that keeps  the fire going in the hearth”. Today I am very pleased to see the implementation of all the resolutions adopted at the 37th  session of the General Conference. This, I must say, is the best acknowledgement of the concerted efforts made by the  Secretariat, the Executive Board and the Member States, in spite of their differences, to successfully address internal and  external challenges.
(2.3) Ladies and gentlemen, this year, 2015, is bound to go down in history. At the world summit marking the 70th  anniversary of the founding of the United Nations, the participants discussed general trends in the world and the shared  responsibilities of the international community, and formulated visions and plans for the future, including the 2030 Agenda for  Sustainable Development. They reached a consensus that, at this critical moment in history, humanity is experiencing  profound changes never seen in the last 100 years. For the generations to come, we must act now. I recall that at the  beginning of this century, people gathered with beautiful visions in Tonga, which is in the South Pacific and nearest to the  International Date Line, to welcome the first ray of sunshine of the new millennium and to share that moment of happiness. In  September of that year, 147 Heads of State and Government and other leaders gathered at United Nations Headquarters to  reaffirm their shared respect for the Charter of the United Nations and to fully commit to the creation of a more peaceful,  prosperous and just world by adopting the Millennium Development Goals. Fifteen years have passed swiftly. Looking back at  this period of history, we can rejoice at the steady progress in all fields; yet there are also concerns about various crises,  challenges and instability for the future. Extreme poverty, gender inequality, insufficient access to education, youth  unemployment, terrorism, religious conflicts, regional unrest, climate change, deterioration of the environment, communicable  diseases and various humanitarian disasters: such challenges are increasingly threatening world peace and security and the  prospect of stability and development for every country. From the terrorist attack of 9/11 to the emergence of ISIS, from the  Wall Street financial crisis to the development dilemma facing most countries, from political uncertainty prevailing in western  Asia and North Africa following the Arab Spring to the heart-wrenching, massive numbers of Syrian refugees, our society is  moving forward with difficulties and through violent oscillations, as if on a roller coaster. In brief, we are probably in a relatively  long period of change and reorganization. It is inevitable that there will be some oscillation and disorder and at a high price.  New concepts and institutional innovations are badly needed for the development of human society. This is the issue that  requires everyone’s contribution of wisdom during this session of the General Conference.
(2.4) Ladies and gentlemen, faced with profound changes in the international order and rapid increase in global  challenges, UNESCO should act as it did when it chose to defend world peace at its creation 70 years ago: it should dare to  make different choices and reaffirm those choices, and let people know that these choices will determine our future. As for us,  we have every reason to believe that, building on our predecessors’ efforts, we will make the twenty-first century more  harmonious than ever. To that end, I would like to make five suggestions: first, we should cherish world peace and make it our  top priority to uphold the institutional framework and values reflected in the Charter of the United Nations. Following the  Second World War, the international order was reconstructed around the Charter of the United Nations, which has played an  important role in world peace and development during the past 70 years. Despite this long history, the values and conduct  advocated by the Charter are still valid today; it remains the most important foundation of world peace for today and tomorrow.  The recent statement by the German Chancellor, Angela Merkel, about the Holocaust has earned the respect of all countries  represented on that occasion, and my personal admiration. She said, “We are responsible for the Holocaust. I see no reason  to change our view of history in any way. We know that the responsibility for this crime against humanity is German and very  much our own”. I admire the Chancellor’s courageous choice to face history and shoulder that responsibility. I think this is the  only way to lay down the burden, leave behind the pain and hatred of yesterday, and embrace peace with tolerance and an  open mind.
(2.5) Second, we should intensify our efforts to develop and promote the idea of the “community of common destiny”  among the peoples of the world. Today, we live in a world with different cultures, races, colours, religions and social systems.  Countries are connected with, depend on, and influence one another more than ever, thus forming a community of common  destiny. Fostering and reinforcing awareness in different countries of this community of common destiny is in accordance with  the trends of the world and the times we live in. This idea is an important theoretical foundation for the strengthening of  cooperation and a collective response to challenges in a new age; it also shares the spirit of UNESCO’s purpose, “building  peace in the minds of men and women”. To foster and reinforce awareness of the community of common destiny is an  undeniable mission for the Organization in the future. As the think-tank of the United Nations, UNESCO must take action. The  Organization should further promote awareness of equality, mutual aid, mutual benefit and responsibility in different countries  and among their people.
(2.6) Third, we should contribute to the elimination of misunderstanding between different religions and civilizations, have  more dialogue and seek a way to achieve harmonious coexistence among diverse civilizations in the twenty-first century. All  religions and civilizations share the same fundamental values, which constitute the theoretical foundation of the human  community of common destiny. Stability and harmony in families and countries can be achieved only through mutual respect  and equal treatment between people and countries. The Buddhist advocates the idea that “All are created equal”. A quote from  the Bible goes: “With all lowliness and meekness, with longsuffering, forbearing one another in love; endeavouring to keep the  unity […] in the bond of peace”. And in the Qur’ān the Prophet Muḥammad states that those who love others as they love  themselves are true believers. As H.E. Xi Jinping, President of the People’s Republic of China, stressed during his visit to the  Organization in 2014, “civilizations have come in different colours, and such diversity has made exchanges and mutual  learning among civilizations relevant and valuable. Civilizations are equal, and such equality has made exchanges and mutual  learning among civilizations possible. Civilizations are inclusive, and such inclusiveness has given exchanges and mutual  learning among civilizations the needed drive to move forward”. In spring 2015, together with the Director-General of UNESCO  and the Chair of the UNESCO Executive Board, I paid a visit to the Holy See at the Pope’s invitation. Speaking of the religious  antagonisms existing nowadays, His Holiness Pope Francis strongly recommended dialogue among different religions. The  same peaceful wish is also shared by many of the countries I have visited in Europe, the Arab world, Asia, and Latin America.  The famous British philosopher Bertrand Russell noted in his article “Chinese and Western Civilization Contrasted” that history  had repeatedly proven that the exchanges among civilizations provided the inexhaustible driving force for the progress of all  humankind. The American writers and Pulitzer Prize winners Will and Ariel Durant also said in their masterpiece “The Lessons  of History” that “civilization is the product of cooperation, and all people have contributed to it”. One of our important tasks is to  promote harmony, exchanges and mutual learning among civilizations as well as their common progress, and to bring into play  the role of exchanges and mutual learning among civilizations in cementing friendship between all peoples, safeguarding world  peace, and advancing human progress. We should draw upon the wisdom of all civilizations and seek for things that feed the  heart and the mind so that people can work together in addressing the various challenges facing humanity.
(2.7) Fourth, bearing in mind the Goals and targets of the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development, we should make  education available to all, as part of our efforts to eradicate extreme poverty and serious imbalances in development and to  address the global challenges brought about by such problems. In 1999, when I was Vice-President of Peking University, I  listened as the host to a speech given by the then President of South Africa, Nelson Mandela. In his speech, Mr Mandela said,  “Our freedom will remain fragile and our rights empty shells if millions of South Africans continue to be cursed by the legacy of  homelessness and hunger, ill-health and illiteracy”. That profound and thought-provoking speech remains fresh in my memory.  Hunger, poverty, ignorance, inequality and injustice are the root causes of fear and the soil that breeds all kinds of extremism.  We need to make sure that such soil is shovelled away. To that end, we should continue to put education first and promote  equity in education to enable people to change their destinies. We should further increase assistance to developing countries,  helping their governments and people develop educational, scientific and cultural programmes, particularly protecting the right  to education for women, children and other vulnerable groups. We should help the young people of those countries develop  necessary work skills and find job opportunities. By achieving equitable, open, comprehensive, and innovative development,  we will lay a solid foundation for peace and prosperity in the twenty-first century.
(2.8) Fifth, we should improve operational efficiency through institutional innovation and pool all available resources to  improve the Organization’s professional competence in promoting exchanges among civilizations and to increase its influence  in global governance. The 70-year history of the Organization has shown amply that education, science and culture serve as  crucial channels and bridges for exchanges among civilizations and that connectivity free from misunderstandings and  institutional barriers is more stable and enduring. Going forward, the Organization should continue to act as a platform for  multilateral exchanges and communication among countries in the fields of education, science and culture, offering dedicated  services to its Member States. By adopting innovative mechanisms for cooperation and by enhancing its operational efficiency,  the Organization will be able to expand into new areas and unlock the full potential of cooperation. In the meantime, the  Organization should become the spiritual home to the world’s most outstanding thinkers, scientists, educators, writers and  artists. By pooling and leveraging their wisdom and insights, the Organization will be able to improve its professional  competence in promoting exchanges among civilizations. It should also enhance its communications and collaboration with  other United Nations agencies and Member States as well as NGOs and private entities so that resources can be channelled  into addressing major issues confronting humanity. Everyone should do something for UNESCO and each and every effort will  be remembered by the Organization. Everyone should also be proud of having done something for UNESCO. Lastly, please  allow me to conclude by making a wish. The United Nations has a slogan of “A Stronger United Nations, a Better World”.  UNESCO should be equally ambitious. Let us work together for “A Stronger UNESCO, a Better World”! Thank you.  (The Temporary President continues in English)
2.9 Ladies and gentlemen, I now have the honour of inviting His Excellency Mohamed Sameh Amr, Chair of the  UNESCO Executive Board, to take the floor.
3.1 M. Amr (Egypte), Président du Conseil exécutif :   Merci. Monsieur le Président de la Conférence générale, Madame la Directrice générale, honorables Ministres,  Excellences, Mesdames et Messieurs, c’est un plaisir et un grand honneur pour moi de vous souhaiter la bienvenue à la
38e session de la Conférence générale de l’UNESCO, au nom des cinquante-huit membres du Conseil exécutif et en  mon nom propre, en tant que Président du Conseil.
3.2 Nous allons célébrer le soixante-dixième anniversaire de notre Organisation dans moins de deux semaines. Le  Conseil exécutif, en collaboration avec la Directrice générale, a tout mis en œuvre pour la bonne préparation de nos  célébrations. Nous sommes tous très heureux que plusieurs chefs d’État et de gouvernement représentant toutes les  régions du monde aient décidé de se rendre à l’UNESCO pour ces célébrations. C’est plus qu’une marque de respect  pour le travail que nous accomplissons. C’est la reconnaissance de la nécessité pérenne d’une organisation comme  l’UNESCO, et aussi la preuve d’une volonté politique au plus haut niveau de reconnaître la seule organisation du  système des Nations Unies responsable de la politique globale dans le domaine de l’éducation, des sciences naturelles,  des sciences humaines et sociales, de la culture, et de la communication et l’information. Cette reconnaissance nous  rend particulièrement fiers. L’écrivain et aventurier Antoine de Saint-Exupéry nous rappelle que « Pour ce qui est de  l’avenir, il ne s’agit pas de le prévoir, mais de le rendre possible ».
8  (Le Président du Conseil exécutif poursuit en anglais)
3.3 Mr President, Excellencies, ladies and gentlemen, for decades now, we have known that the world is rapidly  evolving in both positive and negative ways. The positive changes have created new opportunities – people are more  connected. However, it is sometimes difficult to find efficient and relevant solutions to some of the more negative  changes we experience. Nonetheless, we must consider sustainable solutions now with a view to preserving our planet –  our only planet. As Charles, Prince of Wales, said: “Our children and grandchildren will ask not what our generation said,  but what it did. Let us give an answer, then, of which we can be proud”. These are wise words indeed.
3.4 Let me reiterate, we are in a period of profound transformations, not only in social terms but also in all areas of  the Organization’s activities and mandate. Transformations are upon us in education, in science, in culture and, above  all, in the innovation-driven communications and information field. Today, at a time of such rapid change and after 70  years of our existence, what forces of ours make peace lasting? What foundations of ours make development  sustainable and human-oriented? These are the kinds of questions that we must continue to ask ourselves.
3.5 Our objective is that we should be able to keep up to date with these kinds of challenges and changes and  provide policy solutions that allow us to confront them head on. UNESCO is one of the leading specialized agencies  within the United Nations system capable of tackling today’s major challenges through a prism covering our five fields of  competence. This is our added value. And this is what should make us the “go-to” agency to resolve twenty-first century  problems and preserve our world and its universal values for the future. This goal and holistic transformation has formally  been announced by the decision of the United Nations summit this September to adopt the post-2015 development  agenda and its 17 Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) and 169 connected targets. These goals and targets define  the expectations of the world community for the next 15 years and beyond. This is why I believe that UNESCO now faces  a new test of unusual proportions: a review of our relevance, our existence and our role. Most importantly, we need to  adopt a dynamic approach in reviewing our strategy and our plans of action.
3.6 Let me reiterate again that I believe that the secret to our success will lie not only in multiplying our energies or  increasing our financial resources but also in the kinds of effective partnerships we can achieve with our fellow  organizations within the United Nations system and our alliances with non-governmental partners, including from the  private sector, academic circles, the media and other interested stakeholders, in a way similar to the approach followed  by the Education Sector in developing SDG 4.
3.7 We should begin to become concerned when we look where our core competences in culture and science have  been integrated into the globe’s transformative agenda. Apart from a few marginal references in some targets, we – and  here I mean both the representatives of our Member States and the Secretariat – should continue to work intensively to  make this possible. What has the catchphrase “a driver and an enabler of sustainable development”, which can be  applied to both culture and science, brought about?
3.8 In this regard, let me take this opportunity to appeal to all of us – and again I say both the Member States and  the Secretariat – to redouble our efforts to gain ground in these areas. We must seriously and honestly undertake  reflection about our future vision, our focus, our priorities and our modus operandi for the next 15 years and beyond. We  must ensure that sustainability is written into the genetic code of our Organization. Our current Medium-Term Strategy  runs until 2021, that is to say four years into that transformative period.
3.9 In order to attain further influence and impact, a review and analysis of the Medium-Term Strategy and its  relation to the 2030 Agenda must be considered our first step towards the world community. The General Conference,  therefore, should mandate the Executive Board to review our Medium-Term Strategy next year, in an in-depth manner,  together with the Director-General. We all know that structural and conceptual changes are difficult to implement and that  it is often hard to change our habits including the need to leave marginal activities aside. But this change has to come  from a bottom-up approach, emerging from a space for exchange and thought, and we need to provide support to  accompany this process.
3.10 Allow me, ladies and gentlemen, to begin with culture for the future. Should UNESCO concentrate almost all of  its resources, both human and financial, only on the implementation and administration of our conventions? Certainly this  may satisfy the expectations of many Member States. I would suggest that we must concentrate our efforts to pursue  other intellectual and creative dimensions, such as in the field of the arts, in literature and books, in creativity, and in  linkage to the creative economy, to name just a few. In this regard, I would urge us all not to lose sight of the potential for  culture to be a source of human dignity, that is, the celebration of our diversity becomes the common ground for each to  live equally with the Other and for culture in all its many forms to be that true driver of sustainable development that we  so desire.
3.11 Our concept of a culture of peace and intercultural dialogue – which are based on the principle of living together  better and on respect and acceptance of one another, which were born here at UNESCO and which gave rise to the  rapprochement of cultures – must be much more than a well-meaning slogan. We must regain our moral and intellectual  leadership of these meaningful concepts to establish the harmony of civilizations. After all, the world looks to UNESCO  for guidance and inspiration on these vital matters.
3.12 Now, Mr President of the General Conference, let me turn to science for the future. The coming years mark a  unique and challenging time for UNESCO to reconfirm its relevance and to prove the impact of its mandate in science.  UNESCO’s role in promoting international science, technology and innovation cooperation, as well as its work  concerning the ethics of science and technology, has never been as relevant as it is now, especially as we begin to  implement the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development. Our work in science must become more visible. For example,  the research and analysis undertaken by the United Nations Secretary-General’s Scientific Advisory Board, hosted here
9  at UNESCO, must be further promoted. In fact, everything that we do must take into consideration our ability to provide  effective policy advice that can especially provide real impact in our Member States. This requires focus, determination  and confidence. It calls for support and trust among Member States and the Secretariat to share this noble mission. We  must encourage and facilitate the spread of ideas by today’s young and dynamic thinkers. Our youth are too often  considered lacking in experience. However, as the results of the ninth UNESCO Youth Forum show, young people have  excellent creative potential and also great aspirations for our Organization. UNESCO must be a centre for close  collaboration among all generations so that all experience is mutually beneficial and knowledge and creativity are  transmitted between the generations.
(3.14) (translation from the Arabic)  Mr President of the General Conference, Madam Director-General, Your Excellencies,  ministers, ambassadors, representatives of States and delegations, dear colleagues, UNESCO was established 70 years ago  in a bid by its founders to construct the defences of peace in the minds of men. The aim at that time was to reduce the  incidence of the use of force and resorting to war between States in order to settle their differences. Today, internal conflicts  and civil wars have become legion on the international scene; their numbers have grown alarmingly and they have become  more calamitous and ferocious than the traditional inter-State wars experienced by the peoples of the world.
(3.15) UNESCO was founded in 1945 before people used television, and even up to the mid-1980s, in order to make an  international telephone call we would sometimes need to spend a whole day, and even in the late 1970s, when we used to  study abroad, we would eagerly await friends from our home country who would bring local newspapers for us to read.  Nowadays, all this can take place in the twinkling of an eye, using a single machine which most of us can carry in our pocket  or our briefcase. We can keep abreast of news and events which take place anywhere in the world as they happen in real time  in sound and image, whether we are walking in the street, waiting for a bus, or even sitting in meeting rooms. With the same  machine, we can make phone calls either on the ground or in mid-flight.
(3.16) When UNESCO was founded, and up to the mid-1990s, thoughts were confined to physical bodies, and did not  move about except as the body carrying them moved about from one country to the next, with all the concomitant crossing of  political and geographical borders. At best, ideas circulated by means of books which might or might not reach us from abroad.  When I was an academic researcher in the 1990s, I had to leave my country and travel abroad in order to get the articles or  books I needed for my academic field. But now it does not take more than an hour or two to get all the academic references  and resources published anywhere in the world and in any language I want.
(3.17) Here I must pause to tell you that I sometimes feel surprised when one of my two daughters comes and tells me that  she wants to go to some other country to meet her friends. My first reaction is that she must get the necessary visas, which will  take some time. She says quite simply, “Well then, let me go to my room and get in touch with them all in the various countries  and chat. We can exchange views and thoughts without needing to get visas or cross political borders”. Today’s generation is  proud of being able to use computers and surf the Internet; the generation of our children use the electronic media with the  greatest of ease and consider them an integral part of their lives. Look at how any child no older than 10 handles tablets or  computers or portable televisions. Indeed, I am hardly exaggerating when I say personally, and I think this is the case for most  of us, that we seek the help of our children in order to learn how to use these new electronic devices, since our children seem  to have been born with them and have an almost innate technical knowledge of how to use them.
(3.18) The world has changed and continues to change at a dizzying pace. The transfer and sharing of ideas has become  extremely rapid, and it remains a challenge for us to know how to protect our sons and daughters from various kinds of misuse  of the communication media, and to ensure that they do not fall prey to extremist thought and appeals to violence or  propaganda in favour of the use of force. Some of us still believe that the political borders of our States or even the walls of our  houses constitute a protective hedge sheltering our sons and daughters, but the reality is that these borders have become  merely virtual ones for them. It has become easy for wrong, extremist ideas to circulate from any corner of the world to any  son or daughter of ours at any time in their own homes, and even with us sitting right beside them in the same room, feeling  perfectly confident that they are protected from that as long as we are by their side in the same house or room. Against the  backdrop of all these changing circumstances, the challenges the world is facing are multiple, increasingly complex, and  different in shape, requiring us to cope and interact with them just as rapidly and forcefully as they are evolving.
(3.19) This Organization is an integral part of today’s world, with all its various components and, at times, contradictions.  There is no alternative but to join forces in order to combat extremism, reject violence, and oppose movements which seek to  disseminate new cultures aimed at increasing attitudes of disrespect and persecution and inciting hatred of the Other. This is  not limited to those who are different from them in culture, religion and creed, but unfortunately also includes those who are  like them in culture, religion and creed. If these groups attempt to invade and occupy the minds of our youth, we have a duty  and responsibility to provide coming generations with the necessary protection by ensuring appropriate education  opportunities, which would afford them protection in and of itself, and to raise them in such a way as to develop sound  intellectual capacities and an ability to enter into constructive dialogue. The challenge we are facing today no longer consists  in searching for how to address this phenomenon, but rather how we can provide the necessary protection before such a  phenomenon develops and gets completely out of control.
(3.20) Here I must stress the need to examine the role played by the Social and Human Sciences Sector and the  Communication and Information Sector in the Organization. We need to provide them with an appropriate climate and the  resources for them to draw up initiatives and work plans of an inventive, innovative, flexible nature. In this connection, I am  bound to express my sincere thanks and appreciation to the Director-General, Irina Bokova, who is aware of this danger, and  the responsibility of the Organization to address it. She organized the first International Conference on “Youth and the Internet:  Fighting Radicalization and Extremism” last June with financial support from China, Bulgaria and Egypt. We were pleased to  see how useful and fruitful the discussions were. We need to harness this great success and build on its outcomes and act  effectively and not wait for more things to happen before moving forward, guided by these results. If we feared the proliferation  of nuclear weapons and weapons of mass destruction and worked by all means possible to prevent it, I strongly believe that it  behoves us to fear just as much the proliferation of ideas of extremism and violence; indeed, the danger thereof may be more  lethal than that of nuclear weapons. We need to eradicate them completely before it is too late.
(3.21) Mr President of the General Conference, ladies and gentlemen, I believe strongly, almost dogmatically, in the role of  this international organization, and I trust that it may continue along its path and play its pioneering role in its fields of work,  and that UNESCO may be able to meet the challenges facing the world today in the same spirit of enthusiasm that animated  its founders and which was the primary impetus for its establishment. We need to view our problems from a bird’s-eye vantage  point and to overcome our petty formal differences. We need to work as a single working group and to confront our joint  enemy who is endeavouring to poison the minds of our youth. The worst is when the head rots; all creatures rot once the head  begins to rot. We thought for decades that UNESCO was the “conscience of the world”. As Member States, we need to  provide this brain with a good flow of blood to enable it to think wisely and realistically. And this blood, which we pump to the  brain of the world, UNESCO, is that which will prevent the blood of innocents from being shed in practice as a result of  violence and ignorance.
(3.22) I hope, as we participate in the debates of the commissions of the General Conference, that each and every one of  us will keep in mind the image of the child who wanted to learn but could not find an opportunity to do so, and the researcher  who wanted to be outstanding but could not find a library, or the scientist who had a scientific idea or invention, but had no  access to a laboratory where he might carry out his experiments. We need to imagine the amount of suffering and hardship  borne by those who have to leave home and country in search of a place where they and their children may feel safe, and in  which they may provide their families with the basic necessities for education and healthcare. We need to be aware that our  joint humanitarian heritage is under attack and is being destroyed, stolen and plundered more now than at any time in history.  We need to think about the adverse consequences and impacts of climate change, since that constitutes a fresh  environmental challenge for humankind worldwide. We need to think about the dangers confronting the inhabitants of small  islands which may disappear beneath the waves. We need to be aware of the problems facing the inhabitants of regions  subject to desertification and those suffering from water shortages. The greatest problem for their leaders is how to provide  clean drinking water and sufficient water for irrigation. We need to think of how to provide clean and renewable energy at  cheap prices in response to the development needs of countries. We also need to think of how to provide protection to  journalists and media specialists from the dangers facing them as they pursue their work. All these and other citizens of the  world are looking to us at UNESCO and hope that the decisions and programmes we approve at this session will help them to  meet their needs and realize their dreams and aspirations, which will be of benefit to them and to all citizens of the world, and  enable the Organization to fulfil its mission of spreading peace and achieving prosperity for all human beings.
(3.23) At the internal level of the Organization, we need to strive to keep our doors permanently open to intellectuals,  thinkers, creators, artists, writers, scientists and experts, so that the Organization may act as a meeting place for the leaders of  enlightenment and knowledge. We need to involve youth in greater depth in our activities. We need to attract non- governmental partners so that they may play an influential role in helping us to perform our missions. We need to deepen the  culture of pluralism and to stand up strongly to those who attempt to impose their ideas or make their own culture dominant at  the expense of the Other, and we need to prove to all that pluralism and differences of opinion are a source of intellectual  enrichment. We need to spread a culture of respect for the Other in all its aspects. We need to strengthen the concept of  intellectual cooperation for which this Organization was established. We need to encourage creativity and find innovative  solutions. We need to change our way of thinking in order to anticipate and be prepared for future challenges and engage in  preventive rather than palliative medicine. We need to consider seriously the best ways of attracting financial resources to the  Organization. I am confident that there are resources which may be mobilized to fund our activities and programmes, if only  we can demonstrate to potential funders that we have success stories and that our programmes and activities keep sufficiently  abreast of current developments and adequately meet the challenges facing the world. We need to harness our sources of  strength and our achievements over the past 70 years in order to provide a new platform to enable the Organization to cope  with the various problems of the world as effectively and as rapidly as before.
(3.24) During this session, we need to pool our efforts and direct our energies towards realistic programmes whose effects  may be felt by every individual worldwide in a scientific and productive manner. We must harness the great political impetus  that will follow from the participation of political leaders in this General Conference in order to keep abreast of the great  problems confronting our world from their point of view and to become acquainted with their ideas and views on how to deal  with those problems. I believe that this is an excellent opportunity to send through those leaders to the peoples of the world the  message that “We in UNESCO want to build, we want to act with the same force and enthusiasm, and we are able to develop,  we are able to interact, we are able to deal with contemporary challenges”.
(3.25) At this crucial moment, we stand before a great challenge, namely “To be or not to be”. I am confident that we shall  be successful together, and that we shall indeed “be”. Yes, I am certain that we shall serve as a shining example and a  compass which may guide everyone in the service of the welfare and security of all humankind in order to achieve the desired  level of development and ensure that peace, in its broadest sense, prevails at all levels. With these words, with which I have  expressed the hopes that fill my breast and occupy my mind, I am certain that they will also occupy you just as much, if not  more. I conclude my statement and express the wish, on behalf of all the Members of the Executive Board of UNESCO, and in  my own personal capacity, that this 38th session of UNESCO’s General Conference may bear fruit and be crowned with  success, an unprecedented success. Thank you for your attention.
4. The Temporary President:   Thank you for your speech, Mr Chair. We shall now have the pleasure of hearing the Director-General. Madam  Director-General, you have the floor.
5.1 La Directrice générale :    Monsieur le Président de la Conférence générale, Monsieur le Président du Conseil exécutif, Mesdames et  Messieurs les chefs de délégation, Excellences, Mesdames et Messieurs, l’inauguration de cette 38e session de la  Conférence générale est un moment spécial et privilégié. Je voudrais commencer par saluer l’action menée par le  Conseil exécutif, sous la présidence de S. E. M. Mohamed Sameh Amr, pour préparer cette session décisive.
5.2 J’aurai plus tard l’occasion de vous remercier, Monsieur le Président de la 37e session de la Conférence  générale, de votre soutien et de votre engagement envers l’Organisation, mais je tiens dès à présent à vous exprimer  mon estime et ma reconnaissance.
5.3 Notre ambition pour les prochaines semaines est double. Il s’agit d’abord de renouveler notre attachement aux  principes fondateurs de cette institution, 70 ans après sa création. Chaque conférence générale est l’occasion d’un  retour aux sources, et cette fois-ci, nous ressentons tout spécialement l’importance du moment historique où nous nous  trouvons, un mois après l’adoption de l’Agenda 2030 pour le développement durable, à quelques semaines de la COP21,  avec la menace d’un point de non-retour dans le dérèglement climatique, et face aux crises multiples qui déstabilisent  des régions entières et jettent des millions d’individus sur les routes à la recherche d’un avenir meilleur. Il faut réaffirmer  des principes clairs, des valeurs fortes capables d’allumer des lumières dans la nuit.
5.4 L’UNESCO est née du principe que la paix et le développement, pour être durables, doivent s’ancrer  profondément dans le cœur et dans l’esprit des peuples. Cette conviction n’a pas changé et reste notre boussole, au  milieu des mutations du monde actuel. Devant les menaces de l’extrémisme violent, tout le monde perçoit la profonde  cohérence de notre mandat et le besoin d’aborder ensemble les enjeux de l’éducation, du dialogue des cultures, de la
13  liberté d’expression, qui sont des armes de résistance et de résilience. Ces dimensions ne sont pas séparables et  l’UNESCO est le seul lieu où les États peuvent créer des synergies entre elles. Face au défi climatique, devant la  multiplication des phénomènes extrêmes, tout le monde perçoit l’urgence qu’il y a à investir massivement dans la  recherche, la prévention des risques et l’éducation au développement durable, qui sont autant de priorités de l’UNESCO.
5.5 Au-delà de la justesse morale qui porte l’UNESCO, au-delà de la pertinence de ses analyses ou de son mandat,  l’enjeu de cette Conférence, c’est d’assurer une mise en œuvre concrète des programmes, au plus près des besoins des  peuples. Il faut investir dans l’UNESCO. Il faut lui donner les moyens de son immense ambition. Et mon appel, en  ouverture de cette Conférence générale, est un appel à la mobilisation générale.  (The Director-General continues in English)
5.6 Ladies and gentlemen, this is my solemn appeal to you today: to advance the education of every child,  especially girls; to counter violent extremism and prevent it ransacking the sites of our common memory, of our common  history; to tackle the consequences of climate change, in harmony with the boundaries of our planet; to nurture the  greatest renewable energy of humanity, the boundless wellspring that is human ingenuity, human creativity. It is indeed  time to invest in UNESCO, the United Nations agency for human rights and dignity, for innovation, for sustainability.  UNESCO has changed these last few years; UNESCO has profoundly reformed. This has been root and branch. This  has affected all aspects of UNESCO’s action and delivery. The Organization has changed, a long road has been  travelled, and we did this together, the Secretariat and Member States.
5.7 We did this guided by a clear strategy of transformation, focusing on priorities, betting on our strengths, being  stable on our values. We did this by remaining, indeed, true to the values that inspired the founders of this Organization  after a devastating war, 70 years ago. Two years ago, I promised the General Conference of UNESCO, I promised you  Mr President, that we would overcome the crisis. Today, UNESCO’s priorities are built firmly into the 2030 Agenda for  Sustainable Development, and this was strongly welcomed by the Executive Board at its last session. This shows  UNESCO is moving, UNESCO is transforming. But we must forge ahead to improve efficiency even more, to sharpen  delivery even more, to build capacity in our Member States, to support every woman and man, every boy and girl.
5.8 Societies across the world are turning to UNESCO to defend human rights and dignity, to take forward a new  humanism. The same spirit inspired the founders of UNESCO to meet in London in 1942, in the middle of a war that was  far from over, to chart a new course for human solidarity and peace in a world riven by devastating conflict and war.  Today, in the face of rising violence, in the face of emergencies, we must renew this spirit of audacity because I am  deeply convinced that this is the DNA of UNESCO. This is the promise I believe we must renew today during the 38th  session of the General Conference of the Organization. I believe, on the 70th anniversary of the Organization, this is a  promise of humanity united. Thank you.
6. The Temporary President:   Thank you very much for your speech, Ms Bokova. Ladies and gentlemen, after having listened to this wonderful  piece of music and the speeches from the Chair of the Executive Board and the Director-General, we are now moving to  a more procedural part of this meeting.   Item 1.2: Establishment of the Credentials Committee   Point 1.2 : Constitution du Comité de vérification des pouvoirs  Punto 1.2: Constitución del Comité de Verificación de Poderes  Пункт 1.2: Учреждение Комитета по проверке полномочий   : تشكيل لجنة فحص وثائق االعتماد١,٢البند    项目 1.2: 成立全权证书委员会
7. The Temporary President:   As you know, at the beginning of each session the General Conference establishes such committees,  commissions and other subsidiary organs as may be required in order for the Conference to conduct its business  efficiently. This morning we will elect two such committees. First, we need to establish the Credentials Committee, which  is in charge of verifying the credentials of all delegations, representatives and observers to the Conference. In  accordance with Rule 32 of the Rules of Procedure, this Committee consists of nine Member States, elected by the  General Conference on the proposal of the Temporary President. I would also like to remind you that, following
197 EX/Decision 22 (IV), the Executive Board decided to recommend the election of Her Excellency Ms Mariam  Katagum of Nigeria as Chairperson of the Committee. Now I shall give the floor to the Secretary of the General  Conference.
8. Le Secrétaire :   Merci, Monsieur le Président. Je souhaite juste informer la Conférence générale qu’à ce jour, le Secrétariat a  reçu, en plus évidemment de celle de la Présidente, Mme l’Ambassadrice Katagum, cinq candidatures, à savoir celles de  la Turquie, de la Guinée, du Niger, d’El Salvador et du Kazakhstan. Il reste donc encore trois sièges à pourvoir et les  États, notamment du Groupe II et du Groupe V b, qui souhaitent siéger dans ce comité sont priés de le faire savoir  immédiatement au Secrétariat, le comité des candidatures se réunissant à midi en salle VIII. Merci, Monsieur le  Président.
9. The Temporary President:   Ladies and gentlemen, it is now time for us to establish the Nominations Committee. This Committee will  determine and submit to the Conference the list of nominations for the posts of President and of Vice-Presidents, as well  as proposals for the composition of committees, commissions and other subsidiary organs of the Conference. According  to Rule 34 of the Rules of Procedure, the Nominations Committee consists of the heads of all delegations entitled to vote  in the Conference. The head of a delegation may designate another member of his or her delegation to attend meetings  and vote in his or her place. Representatives to the Committee may be assisted by another member of their delegation.  The Nominations Committee is responsible for electing its own Chairperson, but I would also like to remind you that the  Executive Board, by means of 196 EX/Decision 21 (IV), recommends for this position His Excellency Mr Michael Worbs,  from Germany. I invite the Nominations Committee to meet at 12 noon in Room IV.   Item 1.4: Adoption of the agenda (38 C/1 Prov.Rev.)  Point 1.4 : Adoption de l’ordre du jour (38 C/1 Prov.Rev.)  Punto 1.4: Aprobación del orden del día (38 C/1 Prov.Rev.)  Пункт 1.4: Утверждение повестки дня (38 C/1 Prov.Rev.)  مؤئتة معدلة) ١م/٣٨ج : اعتماد جدول األعمال١,٤البند    项目 1.4: 通过议程  (38 C/1 Prov.Rev.)
10. The Temporary President:   We shall now examine item 1.4, the adoption of our agenda, contained in document 38 C/1 Prov. Rev. which  was prepared by the Executive Board at its 196th and 197th sessions. Allow me to remind you that, at this stage,  according to Rule 15, only new items of an important and urgent character may be added to the agenda. Any such  proposals would be considered by the Bureau tomorrow morning, before being put to the General Conference for  approval by a two-thirds majority vote. I now give the floor to His Excellency Mr Mohamed Sameh Amr, Chair of the  Executive Board, who will present the provisional agenda. Please, sir, you have the floor.
11. Mr Amr (Egypt), Chair of the Executive Board:   Thank you. Mr President, Madam Director-General, distinguished delegates, ladies and gentlemen. In  accordance with the provisions of Article V.B 6(a) of the Constitution, the provisional agenda of the present session of  the General Conference was prepared by the Executive Board at its 196th session on the basis of a document submitted  to it by the Director-General. Subsequent to its discussions in this regard, the Board adopted 196 EX/Decision 21 (I).  Pursuant to Rule 9, paragraph 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the General Conference, the provisional agenda was  communicated to Member States and Associate Members as soon as possible after the closure of the 196th session, by  a circular letter dated 21 May 2015. At its 197th session, the Executive Board examined the revised provisional agenda  of the 38th session of the General Conference and by 197 EX/Decision 22 (I) retained the five supplementary items that  were submitted within the time limit set by Rule 12 of the Rules of Procedure of the General Conference and added  those items stemming from the decisions taken at its 197th session. These items were included in the supplementary list  circulated to the Member States and Associate Members, in accordance with the provisions of Rule 12, paragraph 3 of  the Rules of Procedure of the General Conference, by a circular letter dated 15 September 2015. Mr President, on behalf  of the Executive Board, I have the honour to submit for adoption by the General Conference the revised provisional  agenda contained in document 38 C/1 Prov. Rev. Thank you.
12.1 The Temporary President:   Thank you very much, sir, for your presentation. I would like to inform you that by a letter of 30 October 2015,  addressed to the Director-General, the representatives of Saint Lucia and the United Kingdom of Great Britain and  Northern Ireland, who had requested the inclusion of item 5.5 “Transparency at UNESCO” in the revised provisional  agenda of the 38th session of the General Conference, have requested the withdrawal of this item from the agenda. Are  there any objections to this? I see none, and so this item will be deleted from the agenda. Are there any further  comments on this agenda? I see none. The agenda is adopted.
12.2 Ladies and gentlemen, Serbia wishes to make a statement.
13. Serbia:   Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in relation to item 8.3 concerning the request for the admission of the  Republic of Kosovo to UNESCO, the Republic of Serbia would like to recall that the way this item was included in the  provisional agenda of the Executive Board of UNESCO raises serious concerns about compliance with procedure and  UNESCO rules and practices and is contrary to United Nations Security Council resolution 1244 (1999). The same  applies to the inclusion of this item in the revised provisional agenda of the General Conference of UNESCO. The  recommendation of the Executive Board was made without debate on this sensitive and complex issue that is creating a  dangerous precedent with unforeseen consequences and is polarizing the membership of the Organization. The  Executive Board meeting on 21 October clearly demonstrates how controversial this issue is. In fact, an absolute majority  of the 58 Member States – 31 of them – did not support the adoption of this untimely and premature recommendation.
15  This delegation reserves its right to elaborate in more detail its position on the issue during the discussion of this agenda  item. Thank you, Mr President.  Item 1.7: Admission to the work of the General Conference of observers from international non-governmental  organizations other than those with the status of official partners of UNESCO, and recommendation of the  Executive Board thereon (38 C/12)  Point 1.7 : Admission aux travaux de la Conférence générale d'observateurs d'organisations internationales non  gouvernementales autres que celles bénéficiant du statut de partenaires officiels de l'UNESCO et  recommandation du Conseil exécutif à ce sujet (38 C/12)  Punto 1.7: Admisión en los trabajos de la Conferencia General de observadores de organizaciones  internacionales no gubernamentales que no sean las que colaboran oficialmente con la UNESCO, y  recomendaciones del Consejo Ejecutivo al respecto (38 C/12)  Пункт 1.7: Допуск на сессию Генеральной конференции наблюдателей от других международных  неправительственных организаций, помимо тех, которые пользуются статусом официальных  партнеров ЮНЕСКО, и рекомендации Исполнительного совета по этому вопросу (38 C/12)  غير حكومية، غير المنظمات المصنفة في فئة الشركاء الرسميين لليونسكو، لحضور أعمال المؤتمر العام،  دولية قبول مراقبين من منظمات :١,٧البند  )١٢م/٣٨ج في هذا الشأن المجلس التنفيذي ةوتوصي   项目 1.7：接纳享有教科文组织正式合作伙伴地位以外的国际非政府组织观察员列席大会会议和执行局就此问题的建议
14. The Temporary President:   Thank you very much. Are there any comments? Ladies and gentlemen, our next task is to examine item 1.7 of  our agenda concerning the admission to the work of the General Conference of observers from international non- governmental organizations other than those with the status of official partners of UNESCO, and recommendations of the  Executive Board thereon. The relevant working document is document 38 C/12. I am pleased now to invite once more  the Chair of the Executive Board to present the Board’s recommendations on this matter. Sir, you have the floor.
15.1 Mr Amr (Egypt), Chair of the Executive Board:   Thank you, Mr President, Madam Director-General, distinguished delegates, ladies and gentlemen. In  presenting this item to the General Conference I would like to commend the passion and the dedication that our NGO  community has for the goals and objectives of our Organization. Now, more than ever before, we have come to rely on  the important role that NGOs play nationally, regionally and internationally to both promote our work and assist us in the  implementation of our programme. Their action and achievements demonstrate that together we can accomplish what  we set out to do while continuing to strengthen international cooperation for peace and development.
15.2 It was in this spirit that the Executive Board examined item 22.V of the agenda of its 197th session relating to the  admission to the 38th session of the General Conference of observers from international non-governmental  organizations other than those with the status of official partners of UNESCO and on which the Board took a unanimous  decision. Mr President, I therefore recommend on behalf of the Executive Board that those organizations, now listed in  document 38 C/12, be invited to participate in the 38th session of the General Conference as observers in the debates  on specific agenda items relating to their fields of competence. Thank you.
16. The Temporary President:   Thank you for this presentation, Mr Amr. I now wish to submit this recommendation to the approval of the  General Conference. As I see no objections, I will take it that this recommendation is adopted unanimously. Thank you  very much.   Item 8: RELATIONS WITH MEMBER STATES AND INTERNATIONAL ORGANIZATIONS  Point 8 : RELATIONS AVEC LES ÉTATS MEMBRES ET LES ORGANISATIONS INTERNATIONALES  Punto 8: RELACIONES CON LOS ESTADOS MIEMBROS Y LAS ORGANIZACIONES INTERNACIONALES  Пункт 8: ОТНОШЕНИЯ С ГОСУДАРСТВАМИ-ЧЛЕНАМИ И МЕЖДУНАРОДНЫМИ ОРГАНИЗАЦИЯМИ  العالقات مع الدول األعضاء والمنظمات الدولية: ٨البند    项目 8： 与会员国和国际组织的关系   Item 8.2: Request for the admission of Montserrat as an Associate Member of UNESCO (38 C/59)  Point 8.2 : Demande d’admission de Montserrat en qualité de Membre associé de l’UNESCO (38 C/59)  Punto 8.2: Solicitud de admisión de Montserrat como Miembro Asociado de la UNESCO (38 C/59)  Пункт 8.2: Просьба о приеме Монтсеррата в члены – сотрудники ЮНЕСКО (38 C/59)    )٥٩م/٣٨ج طلب قبول مونتسيرات عضواً منتسباً إلى اليونسكو : ٨,٢ البند 项目 8.2: 要求接纳蒙特塞拉特为教科文组织准会员 (38 C/59)
17.1 The Temporary President:   We will now examine the item concerning the request from Montserrat for admission as an Associate Member of  UNESCO. The request for admission of Montserrat as an Associate Member of UNESCO is presented in document
38 C/59 under item 8.2. The document includes a letter dated 1 September 2015 from the Minister of State for Foreign  and Commonwealth Affairs of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland applying for associate  membership on behalf of Montserrat, for whose international relations his country is responsible. This letter complies with  Article II, paragraph 3 of the Constitution, which states that territories which are not responsible for the conduct of their
16  international relations may be admitted as Associate Members by the General Conference by a two-thirds majority of  members present and voting, upon application made on behalf of such territory by the Member having responsibility for  its international relations. I now present to the General Conference the request for admission of Montserrat as an  Associate Member of UNESCO. I see no objections to this request. I therefore declare that Montserrat has been  admitted as a new Associate Member of the Organization. It is so decided.
17.2 This decision further enriches the cultural diversity of our Organization. I wish to extend my warmest  congratulations to Montserrat, our new and tenth Associate Member of UNESCO. It is now my pleasure to give the floor  to the Honourable Janice Panton of Montserrat, who will briefly address the General Conference. Please, Madam, you  have the floor.
18.1 Ms Panton (Montserrat):   Mr President of the General Conference, Madam Director-General, Excellencies, ladies and gentlemen, I  express sincere thanks on behalf of the Government and people of Montserrat and especially convey the gratitude of the  Honourable Premier Mr Donaldson Romeo and his Deputy, Honourable Minister of Education Ms Delmaude Ryan, who  regrettably could not be here, for embracing the vision last year of becoming an Associate Member of UNESCO and  today that vision has come to life.
18.2 The activities of UNESCO, now aged 70, are woven into the fabric of national governments, as the Organization  is seen as an essential resource bank, providing policy guidance on education and science, and promoting cultural  diversity. The longevity and the status of the Organization say much for its relevance in an ever-changing world. The  objectives of UNESCO – peace and equitable sustainable development – are the objectives of large and small countries  and the method of implementation has the potential to impact on every child in the universe.
18.3 Its inclusive mandate provides small territories like Montserrat with the opportunity to share policy guidelines and  good practices first hand. Montserrat is a United Kingdom territory, a small island situated in the eastern Caribbean. The  Montserrat flag reflects its status as a British territory, but the observant will notice that the flag includes an emblem  showing a lady with a harp. The lady is Erin, from Ireland; the Irish were the first to settle on Montserrat under British rule  in the late seventeenth century. The names of persons and places in Montserrat reflect this Irish heritage. Africans  became the major ethnic group a few decades later, providing a rich cultural heritage, reflected in music, song and dance.  Montserrat gave the world the Soca anthem Hot Hot Hot, composed and sung by Arrow (Alphonsus Cassell). The  development of culture falls under our now newly functional Montserrat Arts Council.
18.4 Historically, Montserrat's population fluctuated between 10,000 and 14,000. Today it is approximately 5,000 and  that includes a high percentage of recent migrants from within the region, including those from Spanish-speaking  countries. This reduction in population is a result of volcanic eruption, which started in 1995, and which made two-thirds  of this 40 square mile island uninhabitable and caused mass off-island evacuation. The impact of this crisis has been  huge. Montserrat lost its core middle and senior management workers and their offspring. The previous boast of being in  the top educational league in the region is no longer true as standards have dropped due to inability to recruit and retain  qualified teachers, and there is now a need to look afresh at our education system.
18.5 Over the last 20 years, sustained volcanic activity has had, and continues to have, a devastating effect on the  island’s economy, which had just barely recovered following the damaging effects of Category 5 Hurricane Hugo in 1989,  even though activity is now at a low level. Today, Montserrat is in receipt of budgetary aid.
18.6 The volcanic eruption had other effects. Montserrat now has a volcano observatory, which continues to bring  world-class volcanologists and geologists to our shores. The recent winner of one of the most prestigious awards in  science, the Vetlesen Prize, considered to be the earth sciences equivalent of the Nobel Prize, is the British volcanologist,  Professor Stephen Sparks, once a household name on the island, as were the names of other scientists, as lives  depended on this. His work, and that of others, has been an inspiration to budding scientists, and Montserrat now has at  least two home-grown earth scientists.
18.7 Another effect of the volcanic eruption is the opportunity it has given Montserrat to turn from fossil fuel to  geothermal energy. With aid from the United Kingdom Department for International Development we have commenced  drilling and discovered enough geothermal energy resources to meet current needs. These energy resources will provide  cleaner and cheaper energy and should boost the economy. Implementation will call for an educated workforce and skills  not currently employed or available on the island. Montserrat does not want to be a bystander as technology develops  around us. The United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), or global goals, mean that each individual has a  responsibility to contribute towards fulfilling them. As an Associate Member of UNESCO, our mandate would be to  facilitate this where possible.
18.8 In Montserrat we have also seen the negative effect of the volcano on sustaining terrestrial and marine life.  During the last twenty years there has been a lack of home-grown fruit and vegetables, and our reefs have been affected  by volcanic material deposited in the sea during the eruption. More importantly, however, there has been a lack of  capacity building owing to the small workforce of around 2,000 now.
18.9 In small communities it is taken as a given that education is a driver for individual upward mobility, and more  often than not the success of an educated son or daughter trickles down to other members of the family. In Montserrat  we are looking, as an Associate Member of UNESCO, for benefits to include the tools to build an educated community –  not just an educated individual but a whole community of educated individuals who, working together, can learn from and  act on the experiences and policies of UNESCO and its Members. We benefit from the United Kingdom of Great Britain  and Northern Ireland in this respect, and we can only imagine the effect that learning from over 190 other UNESCO  Member States would have on our development.
18.10 About 10 years ago a review was undertaken to find out the factors that would encourage Montserratians who  settled in the United Kingdom to return to the safe northern part of Montserrat. Not surprisingly, education was a major  factor, together with available housing and jobs. Unfortunately, we have not yet reached that level of development, and  this is still a major consideration for the second generation living in the United Kingdom and elsewhere.
18.11 The Government of Montserrat has recently reviewed its policy and agenda and has prioritized three of the  Sustainable Development Goals: SDGs 4, 7 and 8. In Montserrat, Goal 4 – to ensure inclusive and equitable quality  education and promote lifelong learning opportunities for all – can act as a motor for sustainable development through  the provision of qualified teachers and a curriculum that would equip our children to aim for a bright and sustainable  future. In Montserrat we will in the near future play a part in global carbon reduction while at the same time providing  consumers with cheaper, geothermal, energy and fulfilling Sustainable Development Goal 7: to ensure access to  affordable, reliable and sustainable energy for all. In Montserrat our economic policy is based on Sustainable  Development Goal 8: to promote sustained, inclusive and sustainable economic growth, full and productive employment  and decent work for all. We are committed to UNESCO’s mandate, which we see as vital for the betterment of our people.
18.12 In closing, the Government of Montserrat would like to thank the Government of the United Kingdom of Great  Britain and Northern Ireland for its support in its application and also for the support given with the process. In this regard  we would also like to thank UNESCO for affording Montserrat the opportunity to participate in this august Organization.  This is a landmark occasion for the people of Montserrat, and we look forward to playing our part as an Associate  Member of UNESCO.
19. The Temporary President:   Thank you very much, Madam. I now give the floor to His Excellency, Mr Mohamed Amr, Chair of the Executive  Board. Please, Sir, you have the floor.
20. Mr Amr (Egypt), Chair of the Executive Board:    Thank you, Mr President. It is a great pleasure and honour to welcome the “Emerald Isle of the Caribbean”,  otherwise known as Montserrat, as an Associate Member of UNESCO on behalf of all Members of the Executive Board  and in my own name. UNESCO takes great pride in the universal nature of its membership, currently standing at
195 Members and now 10 Associate Members. The notion of membership is an important one, and we should be glad  that everyone wishes to join our ranks. Members join to receive beneficial help, guidance and assistance but also to  share their expertise with others. As you are a small island developing State (SIDS), let me assure you, Ms Panton, that  UNESCO makes your needs a priority. Associate membership will ensure that you are part of a wider network of States  working towards mitigation and resolution of the challenges that you face. Equally, you may look forward to any policy  advice that you may seek concerning the protection, preservation and promotion of the flora and fauna that is native to  your homeland. I am certain that we will all look forward to the vital contribution that Montserrat will make in the future.  Once again, I extend my warmest welcome and heartfelt congratulations to Montserrat. Thank you for your attention.  Thank you, Mr President.
21. The Temporary President:   Thank you very much, Sir. I now give the floor to the Director-General. Madam Director-General, you have the  floor.
22.1 La Directrice générale :    Merci beaucoup, Monsieur le Président, Excellences, Mesdames et Messieurs, c’est un privilège d’accueillir  Montserrat à l’UNESCO comme nouveau membre associé. Cette nouvelle adhésion marque une étape dans notre  cheminement collectif, dans l’affermissement de l’UNESCO comme une plate-forme universelle pour un ordre  multilatéral plus ouvert et efficace, fondé sur la dignité humaine, l’égalité et le respect mutuel.
22.2 L’UNESCO est prête à soutenir les aspirations du peuple de Montserrat pour les droits humains, l’éducation de  qualité pour tous, la sauvegarde du patrimoine culturel et la protection de la diversité des expressions culturelles, ainsi  que la préservation de la diversité biologique pour atténuer les conséquences du changement climatique. Et j’ajouterai  que l’UNESCO a particulièrement besoin de la voix des petits États insulaires en développement.
22.3 Au lendemain de l’adoption du programme de développement durable de l’ONU à l’horizon 2030 et à quelques  semaines de la conférence COP21, l’expérience, l’expertise et les préoccupations des petits États insulaires en  développement sont essentielles pour aller de l’avant. Dans cet esprit, l’adhésion de Montserrat nous renforce  collectivement.  (La Directrice générale poursuit en anglais)
22.4 Montserrat, ladies and gentlemen, today becomes a new Associate Member, but it is a longstanding UNESCO  partner. As an overseas territory of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, Montserrat has taken part  in a range of programmes implemented through the UNESCO Cluster Office for the Caribbean in Kingston. Montserrat  has participated in the capacity-building programme, in education policy, analysis and planning, in education statistics,  technical and vocational training in education, along with skills development, education for sustainable development and  quality assurance in higher education.
22.5 Montserrat has taken part in activities aiming at disaster risk reduction as well as in tsunami and other coastal  hazard warning systems for the Caribbean and adjacent regions. Journalists from Montserrat participate every year in  UNESCO celebrations of World Press Freedom Day through the Caribbean Media and Communication Conference.  They have taken part in events hosted by the Caribbean Broadcasting Union, sponsored by UNESCO, including the  annual Caribbean Broadcasting Union Awards. So I look forward to strengthening these bonds ever more, and I wish to
18  convey today sincere appreciation and gratitude and congratulations to the authorities and people of Montserrat.  Welcome to UNESCO. Thank you.  (Applause)
23. The Temporary President:   Thank you very much, Ms Bokova. Ladies and gentlemen, we have a special guest paying the General  Conference a visit this morning, His Royal Highness Crown Prince Haakon of Norway. I will now suspend the meeting in  order to welcome our distinguished visitor. I kindly ask you to remain in your seats until we return to the room.   The meeting is suspended from 12.10 p.m. to 12.20 p.m. to allow the Temporary President of the   General Conference and the Director-General to welcome His Royal Highness Crown Prince Haakon of Norway.  His Royal Highness Crown Prince Haakon of Norway enters Room I and is escorted to his place.
24. The Temporary President:   Your Royal Highness, Mr Chair of the Executive Board, Madam Director-General, Excellencies, ladies and  gentlemen, it is my honour and great pleasure to welcome to UNESCO His Royal Highness Crown Prince Haakon of  Norway. Before listening to Crown Prince Haakon, we will have the great pleasure of listening to a choir, composed of  members from four Confucius Institutes in France. They are students in local universities and colleges, and they will sing  one Chinese song and one French song.   (Musical interlude)
25. The Temporary President:   Thank you very much for that beautiful music.   Item 4.5: Conclusions of the Youth Forum (38 C/19)  Point 4.5 : Conclusions du Forum des jeunes (38 C/19)  Punto 4.5: Conclusiones del Foro de la Juventud (38 C/19)  Пункт 4.5:Выводы Молодежного форума (38 C/19)  )١٩م/٣٨ج نتائج منتدى الشباب :٤,٥البند     项目 4.5：青年论坛的结论 (38 C/19)
26. The Temporary President:   Excellencies, ladies and gentlemen, I propose to listen to the report of the Youth Forum which was held from
26 to 28 October 2015 at UNESCO Headquarters, to which the Chinese President Xi Jinping sent a congratulatory  message for the success of the opening. It is my pleasure to give the floor to Ms Virginia da Graça da Cruz from Timor- Leste, Mr Elton Bon from Liberia and Ms Annie Thamar Garçon from Haiti, delegates at the Forum who will present the  conclusions of this year’s Youth Forum.
27.1 Mme Garçon (Haïti, représentante du Forum des jeunes):   Votre Altesse Royale, Monsieur le Président de la Conférence générale, Monsieur le Président du Conseil  exécutif, Madame la Directrice générale, Mesdames, Messieurs, c’est un honneur et un plaisir pour moi d’être la  première à intervenir sur la question de la participation des jeunes à la Conférence générale de l’UNESCO.
27.2 En effet, du 26 au 28 octobre 2015, environ 500 jeunes femmes et jeunes hommes venus de 159 États  membres se sont réunis à l’occasion du 9e Forum des jeunes de l’UNESCO qui avait pour thème « Jeunes citoyens du  monde pour une planète durable ». Ils ont discuté autour des thématiques liées au changement climatique et au  Programme de développement durable à l’horizon 2030 récemment adopté. Tout au long de ces trois jours, les jeunes  participants ont imaginé l’avenir et défini les recommandations ci-après.   (L’orateur poursuit en anglais)
27.3 And now, I would like to introduce my colleague from Timor-Leste, Virginia da Graça da Cruz, thank you.
28.1 Ms da Graça da Cruz (Timor-Leste, Youth Forum representative):   Hello, good afternoon everybody. My name is Virginia Graça and I am from Timor-Leste. Here I would like to  present the recommendations from the Youth Forum to this session of the General Conference. On the theme “Young  Global Citizens for the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development”, I would like to talk about rights, freedoms,  responsibilities, diversity and identity. Rights, freedoms and responsibilities: we have to approach human rights every  day through innovative forms of education, to learn to respect, enjoy and live our rights. By educating through peer  experiences, by sharing responsibility with each other and by making a difference to each other’s lives, we can all  experience our rights. We have to create a contextually adaptable programme or toolkit on global citizenship education  using innovative methods to be implemented at all levels to ensure the universal enjoyment of human rights. We have to  coordinate a network of organizations that empower young women and men to start and stay in school through  mentorship and tutoring. We must guarantee partnerships, networking and adequate support for the African and  Caribbean regions to ensure their success in achieving their targets for the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). We  need to emphasize further cooperation between local entities and United Nations agencies in order to empower local  economic and social actors from targeted communities to be agents of change. We should dramatically increase and  improve allocation of resources in the education sector to accomplish SDG 4.
28.2 For diversity and identity, we must increase intercultural exchange between refugees and youth organizations  through exchange programmes and sports events. We should train members of local youth organizations to become
19  peer trainers who will coach their peers in their communities. We must enhance cultural, sexual and ethnic diversity,  including breaking down gender stereotypes. We need to create a global environment youth organization, develop a  youth foresight knowledge-lab forum to be deployed all around the world starting in countries with UNESCO field offices.  Thank you very much. Now I would like to introduce my friend from Liberia, Elton Bon, who is going to read the next  recommendation. Thank you very much again.
29. Mr Bon (Liberia, Youth Forum representative):   Good afternoon. My name is Elton Bon from Liberia and I will be reading the recommendation on learning,  personal development and sustainability. Regarding education and experience for life, we need universal civic service to  enable youth to get a better intercultural and inter-societal view of life and its stakeholders. Schools must be seen as a  community, not only as a structure. Therefore, they must be built as places for personal development and for establishing  social skills such as interpersonal communication, critical and innovative thinking, and debating. School must be an  institution where we can try, learn, fail and succeed, a safe place where we can learn by experience and where we could  be encouraged to explore beyond limits. We need community-built knowledge rather than imposed knowledge. We  propose the use of crowdsourcing information and normal critical thinking for cultural understanding by developing a  platform through which a student can access different information about historical events and social norms, leading them  to question and search. This will make education more inclusive and non-discriminatory, allowing voices that are  normally not heard to be taken into account. We can help reduce the gap between adulthood and youth by raising  recognition of vocational training. On the topic “Young Global Citizens for a Sustainable Planet: Knowledge, Awareness  and Media”, we call upon UNESCO to create bridging capacity between young men and women from different continents  by establishing intercontinental social innovation incubators that will produce social start-ups with empowering  knowledge, skills and experience. We must acknowledge climate as a co-existing cultural heritage and recognize that the  way to preserve local knowledge and cultures is through climate change mitigation, adaptation and transformation. As  young people, we are confident that we are agents of sustainable change. We commit ourselves to promoting active  global citizenship by adopting and advocating healthy and sustainable lifestyles in order to contribute to the achievement  of the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) by involving ourselves in the implementation and monitoring of the Goals  so as to achieve a better understanding of the issues surrounding the newly-adopted SDGs. We need to implement in  local education systems new ways of knowledge creation that increase social and emotional intelligence. My colleague,  Annie Thamar Garçon from Haiti, will now conclude with the final recommendation.
30.1 Mme Garçon (Haïti, représentante du Forum des jeunes) :   Je m’appelle Annie Thamar et je viens d’Haïti. Voici les recommandations du Forum : « Pratiques locales,  biodiversité et prévention des catastrophes naturelles ».
30.2 Nous recommandons de créer une communauté en ligne qui permettra aux gouvernements et aux organisations  internationales et locales de partager des informations, des récits positifs et des données avec les communautés du  monde entier, et encouragera les communautés locales à prendre conscience de l’importance de la préservation de la  biodiversité et de la prévention des catastrophes naturelles.
30.3 La communauté en ligne sensibilisera les populations et les communautés du monde entier aux liens existants  entre les pratiques locales, la biodiversité et la réduction des catastrophes naturelles. Elle permettra aux communautés  locales de partager leurs expériences au-delà des frontières afin d’aider à atténuer les catastrophes naturelles par la  valorisation de la biodiversité, de partager des informations relatives aux risques de catastrophes, notamment les  pratiques efficaces et les récits positifs, et d’encourager les jeunes femmes et les jeunes hommes en créant une plate- forme qui fera la promotion du financement participatif des start-up, des sociétés de financement et d’autres types  d’investissement dans des projets innovants qui préservent la biodiversité.
30.4 Comment capter l’énergie de la jeunesse ? Le Forum des jeunes de l’UNESCO devrait se tenir tous les jours et  partout pour que toutes les voix puissent se faire entendre. Le processus devrait être ascendant, les jeunes participants  transmettant toutes les idées des communautés locales aux responsables internationaux de l’élaboration des politiques.  Il faudrait étendre à l’UNESCO le programme des délégués de la jeunesse auprès de l’ONU afin d’associer activement  les jeunes femmes et les jeunes hommes aux processus décisionnels. Des programmes-cadres sur l’éducation  environnementale, le développement durable et les droits de l’homme devraient être élaborés pour l’enseignement  primaire et secondaire. Les commissions nationales pour l’UNESCO devraient coopérer directement avec les ministères  de l’éducation pour assurer l’inclusion des objectifs de développement durable dans les manuels et autres ressources  pédagogiques et aider à renforcer les capacités des enseignants et des jeunes leaders dans les établissements  éducatifs.
30.5 L’UNESCO devrait inclure encore davantage les jeunes et leur être accessible. Les participants au Forum des  jeunes de l’UNESCO devraient être plus nombreux et devraient être assistés par des experts de l’Organisation. Les  commissions nationales pour l’UNESCO devraient organiser avant le Forum des réunions préparatoires au niveau  national pour discuter du thème du Forum, réunir des idées et les affiner.
30.6 L’UNESCO devrait créer une plate-forme et une application mobile pour établir des liens entre les jeunes  leaders et élaborer un système de crédit-débit en matière de pollution pour réglementer la quantité de déchets produite  par les pays.
30.7 Durant ces trois jours, nous avons partagé notre culture, notre enthousiasme, notre énergie mais surtout un  sentiment d’humanité. Ce sentiment nous a aidés à comprendre que la survie de l’être humain dépendait de son  influence sur son milieu, et donc qu’un choix intelligent et rationnel était de participer à la recherche scientifique et de  contribuer à la promotion des valeurs universelles et surtout à la construction d’un progrès durable. C’est ce que nous  vous invitons à faire à travers ces recommandations. Merci.
31.1 The Temporary President:   Thank you very much, young friends. Can I suggest that the General Conference take note of the report  contained in document 38 C/19? I see no objections. It is so decided.
31.2. Your Royal Highness, Mr Chair of the Executive Board, Madam Director-General, Excellencies, ladies and  gentlemen, we now have the great honour of hearing an address by His Royal Highness Crown Prince Haakon of  Norway to the General Conference. Crown Prince Haakon is a man deeply concerned with international development.  Having graduated from the Royal Norwegian Naval Academy, Crown Prince Haakon studied at the University of  California at Berkeley and later at the London School of Economics, where he was awarded a graduate degree in  development studies. Over the past 12 years, Crown Prince Haakon has been serving as the United Nations  Development Programme’s Goodwill Ambassador for the Millennium Development Goals (MDGs). Crown Prince Haakon  also served as a member of the advisory panel for the Human Development Report and was an active member of the  Forum of Young Global Leaders. Your Royal Highness, Crown Prince Haakon, you have the floor.
32.1 His Royal Highness, Haakon Magnus, Crown Prince of Norway:    Thank you, Mr President. Madam Director-General, Excellencies, ladies and gentlemen, I am honoured to speak  here at the 38th session of the General Conference of UNESCO, and I appreciate the opportunity to address you as one  of the key organizations in the United Nations family about to celebrate its 70th anniversary. UNESCO’s role and  mandate is as important today as it was 70 years ago. Education, science, culture, communication and information are  all essential in a world where people are increasingly interconnected and dependent on each other. New generations are  growing up as global citizens, sharing responsibilities. UNESCO was founded in the wake of a world war. Millions had  perished; millions had been forced to flee from death and despair; millions had lost their homes and left everything  behind in search of a better future. Today, the world is facing the largest refugee crisis since the Second World War.  Sixty million people are fleeing from war and conflict. We share a joint responsibility to act: each and every one of us, as  global citizens; each and every nation, as committed members of the United Nations. We have a responsibility to provide  protection and aid. We have a responsibility to promote peace, reconciliation and resilience, to try to prevent future crises  of the magnitude we are now witnessing.
32.2 Ladies and gentlemen, UNESCO today, as it was 70 years ago, is in an excellent position to unite and  strengthen our efforts. Take global education and development. More than 120 million children and young people are out  of school. Lack of quality education and poor learning outcomes leave millions more without the opportunity to make a  decent life for themselves and their future families. Hardest hit are the many victims of war, natural disasters and  epidemics. Increased efforts are needed to prevent military attacks on schools and universities. More support is  necessary to ensure quality education in emergencies and protracted crises. Education is a fundamental human right; it  is also essential for ensuring inclusive, equitable and sustainable development. Quality education provides people with  the skills, knowledge and values they need to tackle the various challenges they are likely to face in society. I would like  to mention here the ongoing work on developing a global convention on the recognition of higher education qualifications.  In a world where an increasing number of people are on the move, everybody should be able to have their qualifications  assessed and have the opportunity to contribute to the society in which they are living. In my capacity as United Nations  Development Programme (UNDP) Goodwill Ambassador, I have seen how crucial quality education is for development.  Girls learn about health and sexuality and avoid early pregnancies. The opportunities of marginalized groups, such as  children with disabilities, are improved. Children and adolescents can reach their potential, and societies are able to grow  and prosper. As the youngest-ever Nobel Peace Prize laureate, Malala Yousafzai, put it, “Education is one of the  blessings of life – and one of its necessities”.
32.3 World leaders have recently adopted 17 Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). Successful achievement of  the goal on education, SDG 4, is crucial to eradicate extreme poverty and to meet many of the targets of the new 2030  Agenda. I would like to congratulate and commend UNESCO for the leading role it has played in promoting access to  quality education for all. The framework for action to be agreed on during this session of the General Conference will  certainly be a key reference point over the next 15 years. I would also like to take this opportunity to thank Director- General Bokova for being one of the convenors of the International Commission on Financing Global Education  Opportunity that was announced at the Oslo Summit on Education for Development.
32.4 Ladies and gentlemen, UNESCO’s role and mandate is as relevant today as it was 70 years ago. Education is  one vital area of its work; freedom of expression is another. As the United Nations agency with a specific mandate to  promote “the free flow of ideas by word and image”, UNESCO plays a key role in fostering free, independent and  pluralistic media. Essentially this is about providing us with the information we all need as global citizens, enabling us to  understand and make informed decisions in a world that is rapidly changing and becoming increasingly complex. It is not  in our interest to create new barriers between peoples. In a world that is ever more closely interconnected, the values of  democracy, freedom of expression and freedom of the press are essential for promoting peace, building inclusive  societies and jointly addressing the challenges we face. Just as important and timely are the efforts UNESCO is making  to protect the world’s tangible and intangible cultural heritage and promote our cultural diversity. Director-General, you  have spoken out clearly on this issue. You have been instrumental in mobilizing the United Nations Security Council,  governments, legal authorities, market operators, culture experts and, last but not least, young people against the  senseless destruction of cultural heritage and against the illicit trafficking and trade in cultural artefacts. Through  initiatives such as the #Unite4Heritage campaign, launched in Baghdad earlier this year, violent extremism and thefts will  be defeated with both specific countermeasures and a joint universal message of tolerance and dialogue.
32.5 Ladies and gentlemen, every human being has the right to lead a dignified life. This means that we all have the  opportunity to fulfil our potential, which requires adequate healthcare, education, income and security. It means having  the freedom to make the decisions governing our own lives and to have this right respected by others. It also means
21  having a common responsibility to strengthen the dignity of others and, through that, ultimately our own. This ties in well  with UNESCO’s mandate and the notion that peace can only be established on the basis of shared values and close and  meaningful dialogue. And it ties in well with UNESCO’s global citizenship education, the idea that learners are  empowered by becoming responsible global citizens, by being equipped with values, knowledge and skills that are based  on – and instil respect for – human rights, social justice, diversity, gender equality and environmental sustainability.
32.6 Ladies and gentlemen, this conference coincides with one of the biggest humanitarian crises in recent history. I  am confident that UNESCO is well placed to unify and strengthen our response, just as it was 70 years ago. I wish you  every success over the next two weeks. Thank you very much.
33. The Temporary President:   Thank you very much for your wonderful speech Your Royal Highness. Ladies and gentlemen, before I adjourn  this meeting I would like us to be punctual for this afternoon’s session, which will resume at 3 p.m. sharp. Thank you in  advance. The meeting is adjourned.   The meeting rose at 12.55 p.m.  La séance est levée à 12 h 55  Se levanta la sesión a las 12.55  Заседание закрывается в 12.55  الظهربعد  ١٢,٥٥رفعت اسلسة يف الساعة    会议于 12 时 55 分结束