24  Item 1: ORGANIZATION OF THE SESSION (continued)  Point 1 : ORGANISATION DE LA SESSION (suite)  Punto 1: ORGANIZACIÓN DE LA REUNIÓN (continuación)  Пункт 1: ОРГАНИЗАЦИЯ СЕССИИ (продолжение)  جتابع)تنظيم الدورة  :١البند      项目 1：届会的组织（续）   Item 1.5: Election of the President and Vice-Presidents of the General Conference and of the Chairpersons, Vice- Chairpersons and Rapporteurs of the commissions and committees   Point 1.5 : Élection du président et des vice-présidents de la Conférence générale, ainsi que des présidents,  vice-présidents et rapporteurs des commissions et comités  Punto 1.5: Elección del Presidente y los Vicepresidentes de la Conferencia General, y de los Presidentes,  Vicepresidentes y Relatores de las comisiones y comités  Пункт 1.5: Выборы Председателя и заместителей Председателя Генеральной конференции, а также  председателей, заместителей председателей и докладчиков комиссий и комитетов  ومقرريها: انتخاب رئيس المؤتمر العام ونواب الرئيس ورؤساء اللجان ونواب رؤسائها ١,٥البند    项目 1.5：选举大会主席和副主席以及各委员会主席、副主席和报告人   Election of the President of the 38th session of the General Conference  Élection du président de la 38e session de la Conférence générale  Elección del Presidente de la 38ª reunión de la Conferencia General  Выборы Председателя 38-й сессии Генеральной конференции  نتخاب رةيس الدورة الثامنة والثالثين للمؤتمر العاما   选举大会第三十八届会议主席
1. The Temporary President:   Ladies and gentlemen, I declare open the second plenary meeting. Excellencies, ladies and gentlemen, we will  now examine, under item 1.5, the election of the President of the General Conference. The related documents are
38 C/NOM/1 and 38 C/NOM/1 Add. I now call upon His Excellency Mr Michael Worbs, Chairperson of the Nominations  Committee, to present the recommendation of the Committee for the election of President of the 38th session of the  General Conference. Mr Chairperson, you have the floor.
2. Mr Michael Worbs (Germany) (Chairperson of the Nominations Committee):   Thank you, Mr President. At noon today, the Nominations Committee held its first meeting, during which it  examined the recommendation of the Executive Board on the subject of the election of the President of the 38th session  of the General Conference. The recommendation of the Nominations Committee is contained in document 38 C/NOM/1  and 38 C/NOM/1 Add. The Nominations Committee decided to recommend that the General Conference approve the  candidature of Mr Stanley Simataa of Namibia as President of the 38th session of the General Conference. Thank you,  Mr President.  (Applause)
3.1 The Temporary President:    Thank you very much, your Excellency. Ladies and gentlemen, I see that this proposal is widely supported and I  am therefore happy to proclaim the election of His Excellency Mr Stanley Simataa from Namibia as President of the 38th  session of the General Conference. It is so decided.  (Applause)
3.2 Excellencies, ladies and gentlemen, it is a delight for me to introduce to you His Excellency Mr Stanley Simataa.  For the past five years, many of us have become familiar with the voice of Mr Simataa and especially his interventions  during the plenary sessions of the Executive Board. Mr Simataa completed a Master of Science in Agricultural Education  in the United Kingdom and he also holds a Master of Business Administration degree. He has held several senior  governmental posts – in the Ministry of Fisheries and Marine Resources, the Ministry of Education, the National Council  for Higher Education, and the Ministry of Information and Communication Technology as Deputy Minister.
3.3 As a friend and a colleague, I have come to appreciate his personality and contributions to the intellectual  watchtower of the United Nations system. With the adoption of the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development, where  Africa’s challenges have been fully taken on board, his presidency will promote UNESCO’s global mission for peace and  development for all. Ladies and gentlemen, with these words I would like to invite the Chair of the Executive Board to say  a few words in this regard as well.
4.1 Mr Amr (Egypt, Chair of the Executive Board):   Thank you, Mr President. Allow me to express my gratitude to you, Mr Hao Ping, Vice Minister of Education of  China, for the friendship we have developed over these past two years. I wish also to thank you for the wisdom you have  kindly shared with me. As the Chinese saying goes, “listening to your advice is better than reading books for 10 years”.  Representing the supreme governing body of our dear Organization is a challenging task for those who have been  honoured to be elected. I have admired your heartfelt dedication to UNESCO’s universal values, your belief in consensus
25  building and your overarching aim to reach harmony in international fora. You were a guiding light for all of us on the  Executive Board. We always waited for your words of wisdom to give us inspiration for our work and encouragement  when necessary. Let me say, I believe that all the Members of the Executive Board share this conviction and we wish  you well, Mr Hao Ping, in your future endeavours and very much look forward to meeting again soon.
4.2 Let me now turn to the newly-elected President of the General Conference to warmly congratulate him on behalf  of all the Members of the Executive Board, and also in my own name. Your Excellency Mr Stanley Simataa, I wish to  express the collective sentiment of all the Members of the Board that this session of the General Conference will benefit  from the leadership and wisdom you have demonstrated during your tenure as Member of the Board for your country,  Namibia. Through your election to this high office, the entire African continent, to which I also belong, is honoured.
4.3 I know you will ensure that the “C” in UNESCO – for communication and information as well as culture – will get  its rightful recognition during your mandate. I also know that the “E” and the “S” will receive the attention they deserve.  Your term of office coincides with this important moment in the life of our Organization as we celebrate our 70th  anniversary. We will also begin a new era, guided by the recently-adopted Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), for  which UNESCO’s mandate is more relevant than ever. We are all certain you will carry out your responsibilities as  President of the General Conference with distinction, commitment and energy, so let me simply wish you every success  in your tasks ahead. Thank you very much.
5. The Temporary President:    Thank you Mr Chair. I now give the floor to the Director-General.
6.1 The Director-General:   Excellencies, ladies and gentlemen, it is an honour for me to congratulate His Excellency Mr Stanley Simataa on  his election as President of the 38th session of the General Conference of UNESCO. Namibia is one of UNESCO’s great  champions, supporting the Organization in its action across the world. We see this in the leadership Namibia has brought  to the Executive Board of UNESCO, in the support Namibia has provided to the Special Emergency Multi-Donor Fund for  UNESCO Priority Programmes and Reform Initiatives, and in the vision Namibia has provided to advancing the reform of  UNESCO.
6.2 Namibia knows the meaning of freedom of expression, free media and a culture of peace, and it understands the  need for inclusive development. Namibia is one of few countries in the world that pledges in its Constitution to safeguard  biodiversity and natural resources. As the Namibian proverb says, “The earth is not ours. It is a treasure we hold in trust  for future generations.” This knowledge is wisdom for today and the future, and it will be especially important in  implementing the new 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development.  (The Director-General continues in French)
6.3 Je connais, Monsieur le Président, votre passion pour l’UNESCO, et je me réjouis d’approfondir notre  partenariat encore davantage. Je connais l’engagement de la Namibie auprès de l’UNESCO, qu’il s’agisse de la  Déclaration de Windhoek qui, il y a plus de 10 ans, a lancé un mouvement mondial pour la liberté de la presse, ou bien  de la protection du Patrimoine immatériel, dont la Namibie va accueillir le Comité dans quelques semaines. Cet  engagement est important pour l'UNESCO. Il est important pour l’Afrique, notre priorité globale, et peut nous aider à faire  une différence pour le monde.
6.4 Excellences, Mesdames et Messieurs, il m’est aussi agréable de rendre hommage à S. E. M. Hao Ping, Vice- Ministre de l'éducation de la République populaire de Chine et Président de la 37e session de la Conférence générale de  l'UNESCO.
6.5 Monsieur le Président, vous avez donné une impulsion décisive à la coopération de l’UNESCO avec la Chine,  impulsion qui a rejailli sur l’ensemble de nos missions. Je pense au Congrès international historique de Hangzhou « La  culture : clé du développement durable » tenu en mai 2013, où vous vous êtes particulièrement impliqué et qui fut une  étape capitale pour l’intégration de la culture dans l’Agenda 2030. Je pense également aux deux conférences majeures  organisées à Beijing au mois d’octobre 2013 sur les villes apprenantes et sur les villes créatives.
6.6 Moins de six mois après votre élection, le 27 mars 2014, l’UNESCO a eu le privilège d’accueillir S. E. le  Président Xi Jinping pour une visite historique. Le Président Xi Jinping en personne a confirmé cet engagement à de  nombreuses reprises, notamment dans le cadre de l’initiative l’Éducation avant tout et, il y a une semaine, dans son  message au Forum des jeunes de l’UNESCO. J’étais à vos côtés, avec le Vice-Premier Ministre, Mme Liu Yandong, à la  Conférence internationale sur les langues tenue à Suzhou.
6.7 Nous étions ensemble à Beijing, encore une fois avec le Président Xi, pour la Conférence internationale sur les  sciences et technologies de l’ingénieur, et également lors du Forum mondial sur les glissements de terrain, au mois de  juin 2014.
6.8 Vous avez été actif dans tous les domaines de notre mandat : lors du débat thématique de l’Assemblée  générale des Nations Unies (à New York) sur la culture et le développement, le 5 mai 2015, et à la Conférence  internationale sur les technologies de l’information et de la communication et l’éducation post-2015 (à Qindao, votre ville  natale), au mois de mai. Vous avez été aux avant-postes pour promouvoir la vision globale de l’éducation selon  l’UNESCO lors du Forum mondial sur l'éducation tenu à Incheon (en République de Corée), ainsi que pour la formation  des enseignants en Afrique, par l’intermédiaire du fonds-en-dépôt chinois, et vous avez été aux côtés de S. E. Mme la  Professeure Peng Liyuan, Première dame de la Chine et envoyée spéciale de l'UNESCO pour l'éducation des filles et  des femmes.
26  (La Directrice générale poursuit en anglais)
6.9 Ladies and gentlemen, dear Mr Hao Ping, we saw this leadership embodied on 4 September 2015 at the  International Seminar on Girls and Women’s Education held in Beijing, China, led by the UNESCO Special Envoy for the  Advancement of Girls’ and Women’s Education, First Lady Peng Liyuan, focusing on the role of female teachers in  achieving gender equality. Under your leadership, Mr President, and as Vice Chancellor of Beijing University, the  partnership between China and UNESCO has surged forwards at every level. We have seen this in UNESCO’s  deepening cooperation with leading universities in China. We have seen this in the 18 UNESCO Chairs in universities  across the country, the largest number in the Asia and the Pacific region, addressing almost every aspect of UNESCO’s  mandate. We have seen this in UNESCO’s intensifying partnerships with the private sector in China: with HNA Group in  Hainan and the Hainan Cihang Charitable Foundation to advance girls’ and women’s education in Africa and Asia; with  the Weidong Cloud Education Group to harness the power of information and communication technologies (ICTs) in  education; and with Perfect Games Holding Limited (Perfect World) to support the 9th UNESCO Youth Forum. In all this,  Mr President, you have acted as a force for cooperation and dialogue.
6.10 Once, Mr President, you told the Executive Board of UNESCO: “Please remember that our united will is our  strength. When people are united with the same will, they are as strong as great walls.” Today, in this spirit of unity, all  Member States of UNESCO I am sure will join me in thanking you for the vision that inspired you and helped this  Organization become stronger, sharper and more responsive to societies across the world. In your inaugural speech, you  said that “The aspiration of this Organization is to realize the dream we all share.” To this end, Mr Chair, I will join hands  with you to shape the future of this Organization for a better world. In this spirit, if you will allow me, I am honoured to  thank you and to award you, Mr President, a UNESCO Silk Roads medal, in recognition of your ground-breaking  contribution to this Organization, to sustainable development and to lasting peace. Thank you.
7.1 The Temporary President:    Thank you very much, Madam Director-General, Mr Chair of the Executive Board, Madam Director-General of  UNESCO, Excellencies, Ministers, distinguished Ambassadors, friends and colleagues, representatives of  intergovernmental and non-governmental organizations, members of the media, ladies and gentlemen. Finally, it is time  for me to say goodbye to this stage and to pass my mandate to my friend Mr Simataa. This morning, I shared my vision  of the Organization’s future, and as my term draws to a close, I now feel complete and satisfied. In the past two years,  my colleagues and I have worked in solidarity and our achievements belong to us all. Here I would like to thank all the  people who have given me support. I would like to thank my country. I am so deeply grateful to the Chinese Government,  which lent me its full support during my presidency. My thanks also go to my country’s National Commission and  Permanent Delegation to UNESCO. I would like to thank all the Member States and representatives for your  unconditional support for my presidency. You are my backbone and the friendship between us will always be a treasure  in my life.
7.2 Madam Director-General, my friend, Irina Bokova, I want to thank you sincerely. Your wisdom, global vision and  ability in difficult and complicated times are the precious characteristics of a leader of an international organization. You  have never wavered in your duties and you have always remained true to your convictions. Today, you are the role  model for many young people and you are the best example of women’s empowerment. Please accept, Ms Bokova, my  most sincere appreciation and respect. To my friend Mr Mohammed Amr, I thank you for always standing by me, for  assisting me in my presidency. We have shared the joy and the pain. My most special gratitude goes to those I cannot  even name. They are the cleaning staff who have kept my office clean, the security personnel and my driver. Thanks  also to the translators and interpreters, the technical personnel and support workers. You are the treasure of this House.  Ladies and gentlemen, it is time to say goodbye. I am not going to say “so long” or “farewell” as I will just be moving to  my delegate’s seat. I will remain here, caring about you and you will always have my support. Ladies and gentlemen,  dear friends, I will see you around. Thank you very much for your attention. I now invite the President of the 38th session  of the General Conference to take his place at the podium.  Address by the President of the 38th session of the General Conference  Allocution de la Présidente de la 38e session de la Conférence générale  Discurso pronunciado por la Presidenta de la 38ª reunión de la Conferencia General  Выступление Председателя 38-й сессии Генеральной конференции   كلمة رةيس الدورة الثامنة والثالثين للمؤتمر العام 大会第三十八届会议主席致辞
8.1 Mr Simataa (Namibia) (President of the 38th session of the General Conference):   Mr President of the 37th session of the General Conference, Mr Chair of the Executive Board, Madam Director- General, honourable ministers and heads of delegations, Your Excellencies, ambassadors and permanent delegates to  UNESCO, members of the media, ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon once again. I am deeply honoured and  humbled by the confidence and trust bestowed on me to serve this great Organization as President of the 38th session of  the UNESCO General Conference.
8.2 Your unanimous endorsement of my nomination is a testament to the principle of the equality of States as  espoused in UNESCO’s founding Constitution. It is indeed an honour for Namibia, as a young nation, to be accorded the  opportunity to preside over the supreme governing body of our Organization. I thank my government for having endorsed  my candidature in spite of the demanding national responsibilities I am vested with. I also thank my family, represented
27  here this afternoon by my wife, Maggie, for providing the much-needed support that has rebooted my often-depleted  energy levels.
8.3 Equally, I would like to express my particular gratitude to the Africa Group for their unreserved support for my  candidature. My predecessor, His Excellency Mr Hao Ping, Vice Minister of Education of the People’s Republic of China,  is also thanked for his sterling contributions during his tenure. In the same vein, the Chair of the Executive Board, His  Excellency Mohamed Sameh Amr, is thanked for his able stewardship of the operations of the Board during very testing  times.
8.4 And yes, let me thank someone for whom I have the greatest respect and admiration: that is you of course,  Madam Director-General. Your unparalleled endurance in leading our Organization has been highly appreciated during  what will likely go down in the annals of history as one of our most challenging times. Madam Director-General, where  many would have hurriedly exited, you consciously chose to stay the course. Your unrelenting efforts, together with the  sacrifices of the unsung heroes of our Organization, the Secretariat, under the measured guidance of the Executive  Board, have succeeded in bringing oxygen to our Organization. As Trevor Noah, a famous South African comedian, has  noted, “Every obstacle, every pain, every heartbreak, every tear, every single negative thing in your life is the fuel you  must use to get you to a positive place.” Thank you, Madam Director-General and members of the Secretariat, for having  kept faith in our UNESCO.
8.5 Excellencies, ladies and gentlemen, the year 2015 is significant in the history of humanity. We are celebrating  the 70th anniversaries of both the United Nations and UNESCO. Both Organizations were established to ensure the  maintenance of peace and security in the world. The United Nations General Assembly recently adopted ambitious and  forward-looking Sustainable Development Goals to, among other things, end hunger, eliminate poverty and ensure  equitable quality education.
8.6 In the case of UNESCO, our founding members had a lasting vision when they established the Organization 70  years ago. They remind us today, just as they did 70 years ago, as stated in the UNESCO Constitution “That a peace  based exclusively upon the political and economic arrangements of governments would not be a peace which could  secure the unanimous, lasting and sincere support of the peoples of the world, and that the peace must therefore be  founded, if it is not to fail, upon the intellectual and moral solidarity of mankind”. The historic narrative of a humane world  order characterized by lasting peace has never been as relevant or profound as it is today when the world and  humankind continue to experience unending conflicts and natural disasters.
8.7 Coming from a country which has emerged from a lengthy armed conflict filled with hatred and mistrust, I am  inclined to reason that humankind needs to invest more in sustained efforts to construct true and lasting peace. We need  first to understand who the others are and why they do things the way they do. There is no single correct way of  addressing issues. As human beings, it is natural that we look at issues through the lenses framed by our norms, values  and cultures.
8.8 Similarly, as individual countries, we appreciate world events based on our backgrounds and experiences. This,  Your Excellencies, makes our coexistence complex. And we have no choice but to coexist. To appreciate each other’s  ways, we need first a strong and unprejudiced will to listen to each other with open minds. Second, we need to pause for  a while and put ourselves in each other’s shoes. Let us allow ourselves a few minutes to forget about our own conditions  and visualize ourselves in the situation of fellow human beings experiencing daily challenges. This may change our view  and enable us to understand why countries have different positions. This may bring us to the realization that there is no  single right way. With two opposing views, both may be right! Only when we try harder to understand and appreciate  each other’s ways will we be able to tolerate each other and be truly supportive.
8.9 Excellencies, ladies and gentlemen, let us redouble our efforts to ensure that UNESCO achieves its sacred  mission of building peace. However, peace alone is an insufficient condition to address the prevailing global challenges.  As the current President of the Republic of Namibia, Mr Hage G. Geingob, noted when addressing the Executive Board  of UNESCO in 2010 as Minister of Trade and Industry, and as he continues to remind Namibians, people do not eat  peace, democracy or stability, nor do they sleep in good constitutions. Peace, democracy and stability are but  prerequisites that enable us to go a step further, to achieve equitable sustainable human development. However, it is  true that development that is sustainable is premised on the enduring peace, security and equitable prosperity of nations  and their citizenry.
8.10 Excellencies, ladies and gentlemen, in times of despair, UNESCO is called upon to bring foresight and hope to  the peoples of the world through education, including education for peace, tolerance, democracy and human rights;  through the sciences, notably with the development and dissemination of scientific knowledge to improve responses to  the unprecedented environmental changes now occurring; through culture, by building bridges between different cultures,  and safeguarding and promoting cultural heritage and creativity; and of course through communication and information,  with the free flow of information and ideas. There is no doubt that UNESCO remains a beacon of hope in a world littered  with deep-seated intolerance and despair.
8.11 The celebrations of the 70th anniversaries of UNESCO and the United Nations provide us with opportunities to  reflect on where we have come from and where we want to go. UNESCO must therefore draw on ancient Buddhist  wisdom, which teaches us that if we want to know our past, we must look into our present conditions, and to know our  future, we must look into our present actions. Can we, as nations, build a better world for future generations,  characterized by mutual respect, tolerance and coexistence? These are some of the questions to ponder as we celebrate  the 70th anniversaries.
8.12 As Nelson Mandela teaches us in his book Long Walk to Freedom, “To be free is not merely to cast off one’s  chains, but to live in a way that respects and enhances the freedom of others. The true test of our devotion to freedom is  just beginning. I have walked that long road to freedom. I have made missteps along the way. But I have discovered the  secret that after climbing a great hill, one only finds that there are many more hills to climb. I have taken a moment here  to rest, to steal a view of the glorious vista that surrounds me, to look back on the distance that I have come. But I can  rest only for a moment, for with freedom come responsibilities, and I dare not linger, for my long walk to freedom is not  ended.”
8.13 The wisdom of Nelson Mandela should inspire our Organization to take stock and embark on the implementation  of the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) with renewed vigour and determination. UNESCO’s Member States must  reflect deeply on the prevailing conditions of our Organization. We must appreciate the opportunities presented by the  SDGs, where our Organization has leadership and delivery obligations in all 17 goals. We must continue to build on  measures initiated so far to break the “financial El Niño” hovering over our Organization. We must spare no effort in  providing adequate resources to make UNESCO’s field network more functional, for it is the field offices that are the  epicentre of our Organization’s operations. We must, however, pursue initiatives undertaken to tweak, with due care, the  existing governance structure of our Organization, to ensure we are better placed to lead the delivery of the SDGs. We  dare not waste this opportunity, because if we do, the relevance of our mandate will be severely compromised. This calls  for a recalibration of our actions.
8.14 In the case of Africa, there is an established blueprint: Agenda 2063: The Africa we Want. Let us draw lessons  from our experiences in implementing the Millennium Development Goals (MDGs) and the education for all (EFA) goals,  and promise future generations that we will bequeath them a world in better shape than we ourselves inherited.
8.15 In conclusion, allow me, Your Excellencies, ladies and gentlemen, a final quote from the President of Namibia.  As you are aware, the independence of our country 25 years ago stands out as one of the most successful stories in the  history of the United Nations. For this reason, President Hage G. Geingob, at our 25th Independence Day celebration  and on the occasion of his swearing in as the third President of the Republic of Namibia in March this year, reminded  Namibians that “Namibia is a child of international solidarity, friend to all and enemy to none.”
8.16 This is the spirit, Your Excellencies, in which I pledge to preside over the 38th session of the General  Conference of UNESCO. I will rely on your support and cooperation in exercising my duties and responsibilities. Thank  you very much, merci beaucoup, muchas gracias, xièxie, shukran, spasibo.  (Applause)  Election of the Vice-Presidents of the 38th session of the General Conference   Élection des vice-présidents de la 38e session de la Conférence générale   Elección de los Vicepresidentes de la 38ª reunión de la Conferencia General  Выборы заместителей Председателя 38-й сессии Генеральной конференции  رةيس الدورة الثامنة والثالثين للمؤتمر العام نوابانتخاب    选举大会第三十八届会议副主席
9. The President:   Thank you very much, your Excellencies, We will now proceed with our deliberations on item 1.5 of the agenda  concerning the election of the Vice-Presidents of the General Conference. The relevant documents are 38 C/NOM/1 and
38 C/NOM/1 Add. I call upon His Excellency, Mr Michael Worbs, the Chairperson of the Nominations Committee, to  present the list of the 36 Member States which are candidates for the posts of Vice-President for this session.  Mr Chairperson, you have the floor.
10. Mr Worbs (Germany) (Chairperson of the Nominations Committee):   Thank you, Mr President. Before continuing with item 1.5, I would like to congratulate you on your election as  President of the 38th session of the General Conference. You can count on my support as you carry out your duties and  responsibilities throughout the term of your presidency. Mr President, the Nominations Committee recommended at its  meeting earlier today the election to the posts of Vice-Presidents of the 38th session of the General Conference of the  following 36 Member States: Albania, Angola, Australia, Austria, Bahrain, Bangladesh, Canada, Chad, China, Czech  Republic, Dominican Republic, Finland, the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, France, Guinea, Honduras, India,  Italy, Kenya, Kuwait, Lebanon, Mali, Morocco, Nicaragua, Pakistan, Paraguay, Peru, Philippines, Poland, Russian  Federation, Saint Vincent and the Grenadines, Serbia, Sudan, Sweden, Togo and Yemen. I therefore submit,  Mr President, this recommendation of the Nominations Committee concerning the 36 Vice-Presidents of the 38th session  of the General Conference for the penary’s consideration. Thank you.
11. The President:   Thank you, Sir. I now submit for approval the list proposed by the Nominations Committee. I see no objections. I  therefore declare the Heads of the Delegations of the 36 Member States on the list that was just read out elected Vice- Presidents of the 38th session of the General Conference.
29  Establishment of the commissions and committees  Constitution des commissions et comités  Constitución de las comisiones y los comités  Учреждение комиссий и комитетов   تشتيل اللجان    成立各专门委员会和委员会
12. The President:   Ladies and gentlemen, we will now elect the chairpersons of the commissions and committees for this session of  the General Conference. If you agree, we will examine as a whole the proposal of the Nominations Committee for the  chairpersons of the commissions and committees. I give the floor again to the Chairperson of the Nominations  Committee, Mr Worbs, to present the recommendations of the Committee for the chairpersons of the six commissions.  Mr Chairperson, you have the floor.
13. Mr Worbs (Germany) (Chairperson of the Nominations Committee):   Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr President, I have the honour of informing the General Conference that  the Nominations Committee’s recommendations regarding the chairpersons of commissions and committees of the 38th  session of the General Conference are as follows: the Finance, Administration and General Questions, Programme  Support and External Relations Commission (APX) – Mr Matthew Sudders of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and  Northern Ireland; the Education Commission (ED) – Ms Kris Rampersad of Trinidad and Tobago; the Natural Sciences  Commission (SC) – Ms Noorul Ainur binti Mohd. Nur of Malaysia; the Social and Human Sciences Commission (SHS) –  Ms Hadidja Alim Youssouf of Cameroon; the Culture Commission (CLT) – Mr Arūnas Gelūnas of Lithuania; the  Communications and Information Commission (CI) – Mr Abdulla El Reyes of the United Arab Emirates; the Legal  Committee (LEG) – Mr Pierre Michel Eisemann of France; the Credentials Committee (CRE) – Ms Mariam Y. Katagum of  Nigeria; and the Nominations Committee (NOM) – myself, Mr Michael Worbs of Germany. Thank you, Mr President.
14. The President:   Thank you very much, Mr Chairperson. The General Conference notes the distinguished delegates that have  been proposed to chair the commissions and committees, as read out by the Chairperson of the Nominations Committee.  Distinguished ladies and gentlemen, I wish to warmly congratulate those of you who have been nominated. Let me recall  that in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the General Conference, the committees and commissions shall elect  their own chairpersons. I also wish to inform you that in accordance with Rule 41 of the Rules of Procedure, chairpersons  of the commissions and committees are members of the Bureau of the General Conference, which will convene for its  first meeting tomorrow at 9 a.m. in Room X. Pending official elections by your respective commissions and committees, I  invite nominees to attend that meeting. You will receive, later today, the formal invitation together with the draft agenda  for the meeting.  Establishment of the Legal Committee  Constitution du Comité juridique  Constitución del Comité Jurídico   Учреждение Юридического комитета  اللجنة القانونية تشتيل   成立 法律委员会
15. The President:   Ladies and gentlemen, I now give the floor to the Secretary of the General Conference, who will read out  information concerning the composition of the Legal Committee. Mr Secretary, you have the floor.
16. The Secretary:   Thank you, Mr President. At the 38th session, the Legal Committee will be composed of the following
17 members: Czech Republic, Egypt, El Salvador, France, Gabon, Germany, Guatemala, Italy, Kenya, Nicaragua, Niger,  Palestine, Qatar, Russian Federation, Sudan, United States of America and Uzbekistan. Thank you, Mr President.
17. The President:   Thank you very much. On this subject, let me recall that pursuant to Rule 36.2 of the Rules of Procedure, the  Legal Committee shall elect its own Chairperson. Let me also recall that the Executive Board, at its 197th session,  recommended Mr Pierre Michel Eisemann of France as the Chairperson of the Committee. The Committee will hold its  first meeting tomorrow at 10 a.m. in Room VI. I wish to recall as well that the Chairperson of the Legal Committee is a  member of the Bureau.
18. The President:   We will now proceed to item 1.2, the first report of the Credentials Committee, which will be presented by Ms  Mariam Y. Katagum of Nigeria, the Chairperson of this Committee. Allow me to congratulate you, Madam, on your  election as Chairperson of the Credentials Committee. You now have the floor.
19.1 Ms Katagum (Nigeria) (Chairperson of the Credentials Committee):   Thank you very much, Mr President. Permit me to congratulate you on your election and wish you a very  successful term of office. Mr President of the General Conference, Mr Chair of the Executive Board, Madam Director- General, Your Excellencies, ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of presenting the first report of the Credentials  Committee.
19.2 At its first plenary meeting, held on Tuesday 3 November 2015, the General Conference of UNESCO, in  accordance with Rules 26 and 32 of its Rules of Procedure, established a Credentials Committee for its 38th session,  which consists of the following Member States, in alphabetical order: El Salvador, Guinea, Kazakhstan, Kenya, Niger,  Nigeria, Turkey and Yemen.
19.3 The Credentials Committee held its first meeting at 12.00 p.m. on the same day. The Committee elected  H.E. Ms Mariam Y. Katagum, Ambassador, Permanent Delegate of Nigeria to UNESCO, as its Chairperson. At the  request of the Chairperson, the Legal Adviser informed the Committee of the criteria for deciding whether credentials are  valid, as laid down in Rule 23 of the Rules of Procedure of the General Conference. This Rule provides that the  credentials of delegates and alternates shall be issued by the Head of State, the Head of the Government or the Minister  for Foreign Affairs or another minister authorized by the Minister for Foreign Affairs to issue credentials. The Legal  Advisor also explained the meaning and implications of the expression “provisional credentials” according to the practice  established by the General Conference of UNESCO.
19.4 The Secretariat then informed the Committee of the state of the credentials received so far. The Committee  concluded that the credentials of the Member States so listed in document 38 C/73 had been issued in conformity with  Rule 23 of the Rules of Procedure of the General Conference; namely that the credentials had been issued by the Head  of State, the Head of the Government, the Minister for Foreign Affairs or another Minister authorized by the Minister for  Foreign Affairs to issue credentials. The delegations of the Member States whose names are displayed on the screen  were considered to be duly accredited.
19.5 The Committee recommends that the delegations of the above-mentioned Member States be allowed to take  part in the work of the General Conference at its 38th session. The delegations of the Member States whose names  appear on the screen now, and so listed in document 38 C/73, have submitted credentials in the form of notes, letters or  other documents issued by a minister other than the Minister for Foreign Affairs and have not been authorized by the  latter, the head of a diplomatic mission, a Permanent Delegate to UNESCO or a senior government official.
19.6 The Committee proposes that these notes, letters and other documents be accepted as the provisional  credentials of the delegations of the Member States concerned, subject to the later presentation of credentials in due  form, and that in the meantime these delegations be allowed to take part in the work of the General Conference at its
38th session. Credentials in due form have been submitted by the delegations of the Associate Members whose names  are displayed on the screen. The Committee has also received provisional credentials of the Associate Member whose  name is displayed on the screen. Credentials in due form have been submitted by the observer organization whose  name is displayed on the screen. These are all also listed in document 38 C/73. The Committee proposes that these  credentials should also be accepted. The delegations of the Member States whose names are displayed on the screen  have not yet submitted credentials. The delegations of the Associate Members whose names are displayed on the  screen have not yet submitted credentials. The observer organization whose name is displayed on the screen has not  yet submitted credentials. They too are all listed in document 38 C/73. Thank you, Mr President.
20. The President:   Thank you, Madam Chairperson, for your report, its excellent presentation and the efficient manner in which the  Committee has worked. May I take it that we agree to take note of the report contained in document 38 C/73? I see no  objections. It is so decided.  Item 2: REPORTS ON THE ACTIVITIES OF THE ORGANIZATION, AND EVALUATION OF THE PROGRAMME  Point 2 : RAPPORTS SUR L’ACTIVITÉ DE L’ORGANISATION ET ÉVALUATION DU PROGRAMME   Punto 2: INFORMES SOBRE LAS ACTIVIDADES DE LA ORGANIZACIÓN Y EVALUACIÓN DEL PROGRAMA   Пункт 2: ДОКЛАДЫ О ДЕЯТЕЛЬНОСТИ ОРГАНИЗАЦИИ И ОЦЕНКА ПРОГРАММЫ   البرنامج وتقييم المنظمة أنشطة عن تقارير :٢ البند   项目 2: 关于本组织活动的报告和计划评估
31  Item 2.1: Report of the Director-General on the activities of the Organization in 2012-2013, presented by the  Chair of the Executive Board (38 C/3)   Point 2.1 : Rapport de la Directrice générale sur l'activité de l'Organisation en 2012-2013, présenté par la  Présidente du Conseil exécutif (38 C/3)   Punto 2.1: Informe de la Directora General sobre las actividades de la Organización en 2012-2013, presentado  por la Presidenta del Consejo Ejecutivo (38 C/3)  Пункт 2.1: Доклад Генерального директора о деятельности Организации в 2012-2013 гг., представляемый  Председателем Исполнительного совета (38 C/3)  )٣/م٣٨ج، قدمته رئيسة المجلس التنفيذي ٢٠١٣ - ٢٠١٢في عامي  المنظمة أنشطةعن  ةالعام ةتقرير المدير : ٢,١البند     项目 2.1： 由执行局主席提交的总干事关于本组织 2012--2013 年活动的报告 (38 C/3)  Item 2.2: Reports by the Executive Board on its own activities and on programme implementation (38 C/9)  Point 2.2 : Rapports du Conseil exécutif sur ses activités et sur l’exécution du programme (38 C/9)  Punto 2.2: Informes del Consejo Ejecutivo sobre sus actividades y sobre la ejecución del programa (38 C/9)  Пункт 2.2: Доклады Исполнительного совета о своей деятельности и о выполнении программы (38 C/9)  )٩/م٣٨جلبرنامج : تقارير المجلس التنفيذي عن أنشطته وعن تنفيذ ا٢,٢البند      项目 2.2：执行局关于其活动和计划执行情况的报告 (38 C/9)
21. The President:   Ladies and gentlemen, we now come to the introduction to the general policy debate and we will start with  item 2.1 of the agenda, “Report of the Director-General on the activities of the Organization in 2012-2013, introduced by  the Chair of the Executive Board”. The pertinent document is 38 C/3. The Chair of the Executive Board, Mr Mohamed  Sameh Amr, will also present item 2.2, “Report by the Executive Board on its activities and on programme  implementation in 2014-2015, including its methods of work”. The relevant document is 38 C/9 Parts I and II. The two  reports will be presented by the Chair of the Executive Board. Your Excellency, Mr Amr, you now have the floor, Sir.
22.1 Mr Amr (Egypt) (Chair of the Executive Board):   Thank you very much, Mr President of the General Conference, Madam Director-General, honourable Ministers,  distinguished delegates, Excellencies, ladies and gentlemen. It is my great pleasure to present to the 38th session of the  General Conference the oral report of the Executive Board on its own activities and on programme implementation for  the 2014-2015 biennium.
22.2 The written report for this item is contained in document 38 C/9. Part I of this document contains the report of the  Board on its own activities for the biennium including its methods of work, while Part II outlines the implementation of  document 37 C/5, together with results achieved in the previous biennium. In this regard, I am also pleased to introduce  to the General Conference the report of the Director-General on the activities of the Organization in 2012-2013, as  contained in document 38 C/3, which is customarily presented by the Chair of the Executive Board. During its 194th  session, the Executive Board examined document 194 EX/4 – Draft document 38 C/3 and decided to convene meetings  of the Preparatory Group between Board sessions to consider, in close collaboration with the Secretariat, ways to  improve the format of results reporting, to make it more efficient and better suited to the new four-year programming  cycle.
22.3 At its 195th session, the Executive Board endorsed the new proposed approach to reporting, and at its 196th  session, the Director-General presented the first programme implementation report (PIR).This document represents a  step forward in reporting on programme implementation, demonstrating progress towards results achievement. It also  contains relevant information that the Board can use for its discussions on programme implementation.
22.4 By its 195 EX/Decision 4 (V) transmitted to the 38th session of the General Conference in document 38 C/22,  the Executive Board recommended that the General Conference endorse the new format of document EX/4 and the  reporting cycle on programme implementation. As with the previous biennium, 2014-2015 continued to be a challenging  period for UNESCO, in which much of the work of the Executive Board was directed at strengthening the vitality of the  Organization in its efforts to face a difficult budgetary situation.
22.5 It is important to note that throughout this biennium, the Board took the decisions it considered appropriate to  assist the Director-General in fulfilling the 37 C/5 Approved Budget and Programme and ensure that she strive for  greater impact and sharper delivery of UNESCO’s programmes within the Member States while preserving and  strengthening the Organization’s relevance for the future, despite our budgetary constraints. During this period, the  Board expressed its appreciation to the Director-General for her efforts to implement the programme and achieve the  expected 37 C/5 results despite significant budgetary cuts.
22.6 Excellencies, ladies and gentlemen, the Board noted significant achievements realized in all programme areas,  following its prioritization of key programmatic areas. Members also recognized the progress made in reforming the  Organization as a whole. We encouraged the Director-General to continue her efforts to ensure the efficient and effective  implementation of each of the major programmes.
22.7 The Board also noted that some activities had to be discontinued or postponed. The Board gladly welcomed  corrective measures, including strong extrabudgetary resource mobilization, a strengthening of partnership development,  the willingness of Member States to provide secondments, and increased cooperation with external partners. Programme  implementation throughout the biennium was challenging. However, the Board observed that programme implementation
32  in each of the sectors was always generally on track. We also welcomed the Director-General and her team’s dedication  to programme execution, despite the challenges faced.
22.8 The Board, together with the Director-General and the Assistant Director-Generals, systematically assessed  each of the programme priorities with a view to continuing to sharpen the Organization’s focus. The Board also continued  to encourage implementation of the Operational Strategy for Priority Africa, and the Gender Equality Action Plan for
2014-2021 (GEAP II), noting that both had helped to strengthen UNESCO’s two global priorities.
22.9 During the first half of the new four-year cycle (2014-2017), the Executive Board continued to monitor the  progress of programme implementation, as well as the reform initiatives undertaken by the Director-General as a follow- up to the Independent External Evaluation (IEE) of UNESCO. Emphasis was placed on defining a new format of results  reporting with a view to aligning it with the new programming cycle and providing a basis for strategic decision-making by  the Executive Board on programme implementation matters. Additionally, the Executive Board examined a number of  items pertaining to each of the major programmes. I would invite you to examine in greater detail all of the progress  made during the biennium for each programme sector, as outlined in document 38 C/9.
22.10 Let me also mention the attention the Board gave to the Organization’s participation and engagement in United  Nations-related processes, leading to the positioning of UNESCO’s core mandate areas in the post-2015 development  agenda. In this regard, it examined a series of reports presented at each session by the Director-General on UNESCO’s  engagement and participation in the global and regional processes, leading to the United Nations Sustainable  Development Summit 2015 held in New York in September, during which the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development  was adopted.
22.11 Leading up to the United Nations Summit, the Board  supported a stand-alone goal on education, and amended  an overarching goal of ensuring “inclusive and equitable quality education and lifelong learning for all by 2030” (ED);  expressed the need for a stand-alone goal on biodiversity, as well as for water, including access to water and sanitation,  integrated water resources management, and disaster risk reduction (SC);highlighted the need to empower youth and to  prioritize marginalized and vulnerable groups of society to ensure equality and equity (SHS);  pledged to recognize in the  post-2015 development agenda the key role of culture as an enabler and driver of sustainable development (CLT), and  alsoemphasized the need to include freedom of expression and the media and to reduce the digital divide (CI). It is my  belief that these requests have been at least partially fulfilled by the 2030 Agenda.
22.12 Board Members also considered it important to develop steps and strengths, strategized to achieve the  Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), as well as to define a framework for action at both regional and national levels  to monitor implementation of the targets. This provides a series of strategic guidelines to be implemented by the  Secretariat with a view to further raising awareness among Member States and ensuring that the thematic areas of  education, the sciences, culture, and communication and information are properly reflected in the 2030 Agenda.
22.13 Distinguished delegates of the General Conference, let me now turn to other areas of relevance to programme  implementation in which the Board took action. First, our examination of UNESCO’s comprehensive partnership strategy;  second, progress in the field network reform; and finally, the improved management of extrabudgetary funds.
22.14 A comprehensive reform of UNESCO’s field network was approved by the General Conference at its 36th  session. While the first phase of the field reform was implemented in Abuja, Dakar, Harare, Nairobi, Yaoundé and 11  other national offices, unfortunately, the financial constraints of the 2014-2015 $507 million expenditure plan did not allow  for implementation in other regions. We were continuously kept up-to-date on reform progress throughout the period. The  Board also sought clarification on the accountability and responsibility of field office directors, and requested that  performance agreements be developed for all directors or heads of field offices, with clear objectives and targets,  accompanied by consistent performance indicators. Finally, the Board raised concerns over the size and sustainability of  the current field network within the expenditure plan, and emphasized the importance of UNESCO’s presence in the field  alongside other United Nations agencies.
22.15 UNESCO’s comprehensive partnership strategy was crafted in response to the recommendations made in the  Independent External Evaluation (IEE) of UNESCO. The first-ever biennial report on the strategy was presented to the  Board at its 195th session. It contained an overview of the evolution and implementation of the strategy, as well as a  consolidated report of progress against expected results. The Board acknowledged the importance of viewing the  comprehensive strategy in a transparent manner and encouraged the Director-General to continue reflecting on its  enhancement. The Board also requested that it be annexed to document 38 C/5 with targets and expected results for  each category of partner covered by the strategy, and to present the next biennial report to the Executive Board at its
199th session.
22.16. A revised action plan for improved management of extrabudgetary funds was presented to the Board during its
195th session. It gave an updated presentation of the processes in place to implement the guiding principles covered by  the original plan issued in 2006, and included updated processes for budgeting and cost recovery that were not included  in the original plan. The Board emphasized the need for a coherent and transparent approach to the management of  extrabudgetary resources, considering their growing role in comparison with the funds available under the regular  programme and bearing in mind that many programmes were now relying entirely on voluntary contributions. The  importance of strengthened planning, implementation and monitoring, and full alignment with the C/5 and C/4 documents  was underscored.
22.17 Excellencies, ladies and gentlemen, while the Board constantly requested the Director-General and her team to  pursue their efforts to increase the impact of programme implementation within Member States, we were also aware of  the need to undertake a serious examination of our own working methods, with a view to achieving efficiencies and cost
33  savings and maintaining our position as global leader in our fields of competence. It was felt that with improved  governance mechanisms, we would be not only a better and more efficient Organization, but also a more attractive one  for external partners and potential donors. This sentiment was confirmed by the External Auditor, and during the past  months an effort has been made to achieve this through the work of an informal task force on governance.
22.18 At its 197th session, the Board formulated a recommendation to the General Conference to examine further  ways and means of improving our governance structure. At that time, it also recommended that the Board meet more  often on a trial basis in the following biennium to better follow up, monitor and prepare decisions, to better involve non- Members of the Board and to improve working relations with the Secretariat. Also, within the framework of the Board’s  celebration of UNESCO’s 70th anniversary, the Board decided, during its 194th session, to make full use of its role as an  intellectual and cultural hub to organize a series of events and debates under the banner “UNESCO: Future Prospects”.  The objective of these debates was to promote the Organization’s mandate and enrich UNESCO’s contribution to the
2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development. High-level personalities and experts from all disciplines and regions  addressed the Board during numerous meetings, providing insight and perspectives on subjects relevant to UNESCO’s  fields of competence, and thus enabling Members to make more informed programmatic decisions. Further information  pertaining to the Board’s methods of work is outlined in Part I of document 38 C/9.
22.19 Finally, with a view to celebrating our 70th anniversary, an extensive renovation of Room X was undertaken.  This renovation project was welcomed and approved by the Headquarters Committee in 2014, with the work taking just  under three months during the 2015 summer period. The renovation was aimed at modernizing the equipment used and  improving ergonomics. This work would not have been possible without the generous support of Member States and  private partners, combined with the efforts of the Director-General and the Secretariat to bring this proposal to fruition  and complete the project within a very short timeframe.
22.20 Dear delegates of the General Conference, before concluding my introduction to the general policy debate, I  would like to point out that during the 2014-2015 biennium, UNESCO completed its transition to the four-year  programming cycle, aligning its strategic planning and management framework with the United Nations system at large.  The Organization is continuing its push for reform in line with the recommendations of the Independent External  Evaluation (IEE) in order to strengthen its results and impact for Member States.
22.21 The Executive Board repeatedly expressed concern about the possible continued non-payment of assessed  contributions by Member States. It also recognized the negative impact that such a cash-flow shortfall had on UNESCO’s  ability to deliver effectively in its areas of competence, especially at a time when the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable  Development was being approved at the United Nations. The Board continued to insist that all critical reforms be  implemented to ensure a careful balance between our long-term needs and the immediate need to continue adjusting  programme implementation within the current and future financial reality, to strengthen our capacity to fulfil the  obligations set out in our Constitution, within the vision and mission statements outlined in the Medium-Term Strategy
2014-2021 (37 C/4), and to fully participate in the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development. I am hereby pleased to  announce that the Executive Board recommends to the General Conference that it endorse our report, as outlined in  document 38 C/9. Thank you very much.  Introduction by the Director-General to the general policy debate  Introduction de la Directrice générale au débat de politique générale  Introducción por la Directora General del debate de política general  Вступительное слово Генерального директора к обсуждению вопросов общей политики   �تقديم المديرة العامة لمنائشات السياسة العامة 总干事对总政策辩论的介绍
23. The President:   Thank you very much, Mr Chair, for your presentation. Allow me to congratulate you for the work accomplished  by the Executive Board and your leadership over the past biennium. Ladies and gentlemen, I now invite the Director- General to take the floor and present her introduction to the general policy debate. Madam Director-General, you have  the floor.
24.1 The Director-General:   Mr President of the General Conference, Mr Chair of the Executive Board, Excellencies, ladies and gentlemen,  on 25 September, at the United Nations Sustainable Development Summit, Member States agreed on a new vision for  humanity, the planet and peace for the next 15 years, This has happened in the year we celebrate the 70th anniversary  of UNESCO. The 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development marks the culmination of years of efforts to reach the  Millennium Development Goals (MDGs), to chart a new course and to tackle remaining and new challenges.
24.2 UNESCO stands at the heart of this turning point, reflecting the leadership of Member States and the will that  exists across the world to join forces, to make the most of all opportunities. And the opportunities are rich: opportunities  for dialogue and cooperation, opportunities for social inclusion, opportunities for sustainable growth and peace.
24.3 The 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development is a call for deeper solidarity, for stronger collective leadership,  and for ownership. This has never been more important. The new Agenda comes at a time of turbulence, when the flow  of refugees has become a crisis, when poverty is rife and inequalities are deepening, when the planet faces increasing  pressure. Across the world, conflicts are tearing societies apart. We are seeing an unprecedented rise in violent  extremism. We are seeing the violation of human rights and dignity. We are seeing education under attack and children,
34  especially girls, being forced out of learning. We are seeing women excluded and raped as targets of warfare. We are  seeing freedom of expression being challenged and journalists killed.
24.4 Ladies and gentlemen, UNESCO was created in 1945 in a world being rebuilt after a devastating war. UNESCO  was founded on the idea of humanity as a single community, sharing values, a past and a future, and the ideas that  lasting peace must start with human rights and human dignity, that ingenuity is humans’ greatest strength for tackling  complexity and building peace. These ideas resonate deeply today.
24.5 On 30 August, the Temple of Ba’al in Palmyra, a UNESCO world heritage site, was destroyed by explosives.  The temple was a symbol of millennial dialogue between cultures. That is why it was destroyed. That is what I call  cultural cleansing. This war crime is part of a strategy of spreading hatred and undermining peace by attacking cultural  heritage, diversity, and women and men, by infringing human rights and breaking up communities.
24.6 Extremists are in fact terrified of history, which is why they attack it, because of the messages it carries of  diversity and dialogue. Mosul Museum has been vandalised. Parts of ancient Hatra have been bulldozed. Nimrud has  been blown up. The Umayyad Mosque in Aleppo has become a battlefield. In Iraq, two of four UNESCO world heritage  sites, Hatra and Ashur, have been destroyed, along with at least nine other historic sites. In the Syrian Arab Republic, all  six UNESCO world heritage sites have been damaged by fighting. Across the region, illicit excavations have taken on  industrial scale, financing further violent extremism.
24.7 Ladies and gentlemen, we know from history that culture has always been a victim of war. But what we are  seeing today is unprecedented. We are seeing attacks against people on the basis of ethnicity and religion. These are  attacks against human rights and human dignity, against the humanity we all share.
24.8 The world may have changed since 1945, but the spirit that gave birth to UNESCO has never been more urgent.  Seventy years later, we must not tire of repeating the Preamble of our Constitution: “[S]ince wars begin in the minds of  men, it is in the minds of men that the defences of peace must be constructed.” This, I believe, expresses the essential  humanism at the heart of UNESCO.
24.9 Human rights, human dignity and human ingenuity: these are our greatest renewable energies for eradicating  poverty, advancing sustainable development and building peace. The UNESCO Constitution remains a wellspring of  hope. I see this hope expressed in the poem “To UNESCO”, written by the great poet Ko Un, from the Republic of Korea,  whom this Organization welcomed just two days ago:    How true and good can this world be?    How beautiful can this world be, after all?    To such painful questions    You reply by past and future.
24.10 Ladies and gentlemen, the challenges are steep – they always are – but so much greater is our resolve, so  much greater is the power we express through solidarity. For 70 years, UNESCO has made a promise to be the House  of all humanity, the House of dialogue and diversity on the basis of rights, the House of ideas and action to set the  agenda, craft solutions and deliver.
24.11 UNESCO is fulfilling this promise. UNESCO is leading the fight against cultural cleansing. UNESCO is bringing  all its expertise to bear in strategies to prevent violent extremism. Violent extremism has many faces but a single goal: to  spread violence, to deepen fragmentation, to attack human rights and dignity, and in fact to attack peace. It destroys  heritage, it persecutes people and it violates rights, especially women’s rights.
24.12 In 2012, violent extremists destroyed the mausoleums in Timbuktu, a world heritage site, in an attempt to erase  the millennial history of Islam in this region. A year later, I was invited by French President François Hollande to visit Mali,  and more specifically Timbuktu, and I promised that UNESCO would rebuild the mausoleums. In July 2015, I returned to  Timbuktu to celebrate the rebuilding of all 14 mausoleums by UNESCO with local communities, the Minister of Culture of  Mali and local builders. I saw then the power of culture to restore dignity and pride. I saw the joy of women and men  retrieving their heritage and traditions. I saw the confidence this brings in building a better future. This is UNESCO’s  response to extremism, our response to cultural cleansing. We are mobilizing the world to stop the trafficking of cultural  objects. We are acting with INTERPOL and the United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime (UNODC) to support  implementation of the ground-breaking United Nations Security Council resolution 2199 (2015) on threats to international  peace and security caused by terrorist acts, prohibiting the cross-border trade of cultural goods from Syria and Iraq.
24.13 UNESCO is working with governments to strengthen legislation, build capacity and block this channel of  financing for terrorism. This is our response to turbulence. UNESCO is putting forward education as a force for human  rights, jobs and peace. Young women and men need skills for thinking critically. They need competences for dialogue  across cultures. They need support for their aspirations to become global citizens. This is the new frontline for hearts and  minds across the world. This is where UNESCO is leading the way.
24.14 In June, UNESCO organized the high-level conference on Youth and the Internet: Fighting Radicalization and  Extremism, with the support of China, Egypt and Bulgaria. In March, at the University of Baghdad with Iraqi students, I  launched “#Unite4Heritage”, a social media campaign that has taken off across the world. On 6 November, UNESCO is  organising the first-ever High-Level Conference on Preventing Violent Extremism through Education, with the United  States and others partners. To accompany educators across the world, UNESCO is developing A Teachers’ Guide on  the Prevention of Violent Extremism. This is our response to hate propaganda.
24.15 UNESCO is advancing education for internally displaced persons and refugees, in Jordan, Iraq, Lebanon and  Syria, with the backing of the European Union and Kuwait. UNESCO is spearheading global citizenship education,  pushing forward the United Nations Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon’s Global Education First Initiative (GEFI). We are  crafting education for the twenty-first century to teach new values and new ways of behaving for peace and sustainability.  This is why UNESCO led the United Nations Decade of Education for Sustainable Development, which closed with a  successful World Conference on Education for Sustainable Development held in Aichi-Nagoya, Japan, in 2014, and why  we will lead these efforts further.
24.16 No one should be excluded. All voices must be nurtured, especially those of young people, whose ideas  resonated powerfully last week at the 9th UNESCO Youth Forum. UNESCO is nurturing youth initiatives in 10 countries  across the Mediterranean, through the Networks of Mediterranean Youth (NET-MED Youth) project, backed by the  European Union. UNESCO is supporting States to sharpen public polices for social inclusion, led by the flagship  intergovernmental Management of Social Transformations (MOST) Programme. We are sharpening our foresight to  shape a better future for everyone. This is our response to social exclusion. Young women and men are leading change  across the world. They are also shouldering its heaviest burdens, both online and offline.
24.17 The Internet must be a force for exchange, for creativity. It must be a platform for human rights, for peace.  People speak of a new generation of digital natives. I believe we need a new generation of digital citizens. This spirit  underpins UNESCO’s comprehensive Internet study, Keystones to foster inclusive knowledge societies: Access to  information and knowledge, freedom of expression, privacy, and ethics on a Global Internet, requested by the General  Conference at its 37th session. We need new forms of media and information literacy, we must advance global  citizenship online, and we must stand up for freedom of expression.
24.18 Over the past decade, more than 700 journalists have been killed for bringing news and information to the public.  As Director-General, I stand up every time and call for justice. Here again, UNESCO is leading the way. UNESCO is  championing the United Nations Plan of Action on the Safety of Journalists and the Issue of Impunity. We are supporting  legislation, working with the police, judiciary and armed forces, building capacity and training journalists across the world  in Nepal, South Sudan, Tunisia, Pakistan, Somalia, Mexico and Myanmar. We have created the Global Alliance on  Media and Gender, to empower women in and through the media.
24.19 Ladies and gentlemen, all cultures are different, and this diversity is a wellspring of strength. But no society  stands alone. We stand together. Humanity is one, united by aspirations, human rights and dignity. This is what  UNESCO defends. This is why UNESCO is teaching the most tragic chapters of history, from the slave trade to the  Holocaust, to fight against discrimination today and to prevent genocides. UNESCO is leading the International Decade  for the Rapprochement of Cultures (2013-2022) all across the world. This spirit guided the 3rd World Forum on  Intercultural Dialogue, in Baku, Azerbaijan, last May and the major conference on interreligious dialogue in Astana,  Kazakhstan.  (The Director-General continues in Spanish)
(24.20)  (traduit de l’espagnol)  Mesdames et Messieurs, nous ne pouvons laisser l’humanité se scinder entre « eux » et  « nous ». L’histoire nous a montré où cela pouvait mener. Personne ne sera laissé de côté. Cette conviction est l’élément moteur  du Programme de développement durable à l’horizon 2030. Aux termes de la Déclaration incluse dans le Programme, il s’agit  d’un « Programme du peuple, par le peuple et pour le peuple ». Partout dans le monde, les sociétés exigent un changement. Les  gouvernements ont répondu. Le Secrétaire général de l’ONU, M. Ban Ki-moon, a décrit le nouveau programme comme un  « changement de paradigme ». Selon le Secrétaire général, et j’aimerais lui rendre hommage pour ses qualités de chef de file :  « Ces objectifs doivent servir d’esquisse pour un avenir meilleur ». Les Objectifs du Millénaire pour le développement ont produit  de grandes avancées dans les sociétés du monde entier. En l’an 2000, on comptait 100 millions d’enfants non scolarisés dans  l’enseignement primaire, aujourd’hui ils ne sont plus que 59 millions. Les Objectifs du Millénaire pour le développement ont permis  à des millions de gens de sortir de la pauvreté. Tout cela a aidé les gouvernements à mieux comprendre le pouvoir de l’éducation,  en particulier de l’éducation des filles, et à mieux en tirer parti aux fins du développement durable. Ce progrès doit être salué, et il  convient de reconnaître le rôle de l’UNESCO, laquelle dirige le mouvement de l’Éducation pour tous, aide les pays à mettre à  profit les sciences, favorise la culture pour l’inclusion et le développement, promeut la liberté d’expression et le développement  des médias, accélère l’autonomisation des filles et des femmes et accompagne la renaissance de l’Afrique. Toutefois, cela ne  suffit pas, nous devons continuer dans cette voie. Le Programme 2030 permettra de finir le travail inachevé et d’aborder de  nouveaux défis.
(24.21) Mesdames et Messieurs, ces objectifs, universels et porteurs de changement, sont clairs : éliminer la pauvreté, favoriser  la prospérité pour tous, renforcer la paix universelle, protéger la planète. Le Programme 2030 est ambitieux – il nous montre la  bonne direction. Le Programme 2030 est universel – c’est la seule façon d’avancer. Le grand enseignant et philosophe brésilien  Paulo Freire a dit : « Voilà la grande tâche humaniste et historique des opprimés : se libérer eux-mêmes ». Le nouveau  Programme est un programme de libération, libération de la pauvreté et libération de l’exclusion. Les 17 objectifs de  développement durable s’appuient sur la philosophie et les compétences de l’UNESCO. La philosophie de l’UNESCO détermine  l’objectif 4 : « Assurer l’accès de tous à une éducation de qualité, sur un pied d’égalité, et promouvoir les possibilités  d’apprentissage tout au long de la vie ». Cet objectif s’inspire des consultations menées par l’UNESCO, de la Déclaration de  Mascate, et des résultats du Forum mondial sur l’éducation 2015, forum novateur tenu à Incheon (République de Corée).  J’aimerais, à cet égard, réitérer mes remerciements au Gouvernement de la République de Corée. Cet objectif reflète l’approche  exhaustive et holistique de l’éducation adoptée par l’UNESCO. La conception par l’UNESCO du pouvoir transformateur de  l’autonomisation des filles et des femmes fait l’objet de l’objectif 5 mais influe sur tous les autres objectifs.
(24.22) La conception de l’eau par l’UNESCO est intégrée dans l’objectif 6 : « Garantir l’accès de tous à l’eau et à  l’assainissement et assurer une gestion durable des ressources en eau ». Cet objectif s’appuie sur les contributions du  Programme hydrologique international de l’UNESCO et de notre réseau hydrologique constitué d’instituts, de centres et de  chaires. Mesdames et Messieurs, pour la première fois, la culture, le patrimoine culturel et la diversité culturelle sont pris en  compte en tant que catalyseurs d’un développement inclusif et durable, ce qui figure dans l’objectif 11 et dans la déclaration  politique du Programme 2030. C’était la promesse de l’UNESCO, et c’était un engagement personnel. Grâce aux États membres,  la promesse est tenue. La vision de l’UNESCO a aidé à formuler l’objectif 14 : « Conserver et exploiter de manière durable les  océans, les mers et les ressources marines aux fins du développement durable ». Cela reflète la contribution de la Commission  océanique intergouvernementale de l’UNESCO, et tout le travail effectué par l’Organisation pour les sciences océaniques et la  durabilité. La vision qu’a l’UNESCO de la protection des écosystèmes et de la biodiversité est reflétée dans l’objectif 15, ainsi que  dans l’objectif 13 « prendre d’urgence des mesures pour lutter contre les changements climatiques et leurs répercussions ».
(24.23) La vision qu’a l’UNESCO de l’importance de la science, de la technologie et de l’innovation est prise en considération  dans l’ensemble du nouveau programme. La vision qu’a l’UNESCO de la mise à profit des nouvelles technologies de l’information  et de la communication en tant que facteurs multiplicateurs du développement est intégrée. La vision qu’a l’UNESCO de la liberté  d’expression et de l’accès à l’information en tant que droit humain pour promouvoir la transparence, la bonne gouvernance et le  respect du droit est prise en considération. L’UNESCO a la même volonté d’aider les gouvernements à préparer la Conférence  des Nations Unies sur les changements climatiques 2015 (COP-21). Nous y contribuons dans le cadre de notre mandat et de  l’ensemble de nos domaines de compétence. Cette conférence doit être la réussite dont le monde a besoin, et j’aimerais  remercier le Gouvernement du Pérou, qui a accueilli la COP l’année dernière, ainsi que le Gouvernement de la France, qui  accueillera la COP-21, pour leur rôle de chef de file. Dans quel monde voulons-nous vivre ? Le Programme 2030 est notre  réponse. Le grand écrivain et diplomate mexicain Octavio Paz a déclaré un jour : « Mérite ce que tu rêves ». Nous devons
37  maintenant nous atteler à mériter ce que nous rêvons, nous devons mobiliser toutes les sources d’énergie, toutes les forces.  L’UNESCO est prête.  (La Directrice générale poursuit en russe)
(24.24)  (traduit du russe) Mesdames et messieurs, nous sommes appelés, dans cette enceinte, à renouveler le pacte  fondateur de notre Organisation.
(24.25) L’UNESCO a démontré, dans sa longue histoire, sa capacité à proposer des projets qui nous élèvent, qui  rassemblent les peuples autour d’un idéal supérieur. Il y a près de 60 ans, les grues de l’UNESCO ont déplacé les blocs de  pierre des temples d’Abou Simbel, et c’est alors qu’est née une certaine idée de la solidarité internationale. Au cours des  dernières années, l’UNESCO a fait naître des systèmes d’alerte aux tsunamis sur toutes les mers du globe… inscrit des sites  culturels partagés entre plusieurs pays, à l’échelle de continents entiers, le long des Routes de la soie, ou sur la Route des  Incas…l’UNESCO a reconstruit les mausolées de Tombouctou. L’UNESCO doit constamment s’élever à ce niveau. En  l’espace d’une décennie, le chemin parcouru est considérable.
(24.26) Regardons le paysage mondial des industries créatives et le nouveau rôle du secteur culturel comme levier de  l’économie du savoir, de l’innovation et des nouvelles technologies… et comment les États investissent dans la culture pour  consolider l’inclusion sociale, lutter contre la pauvreté, inscrire le développement dans la durée. C’est un changement majeur  et c’est l’UNESCO qui a donné la plupart des outils pour tirer parti de ce potentiel – de la Convention de 2005 jusqu’à la  reconnaissance historique du rôle de la culture dans le Programme 2030.
(24.27) Regardons l’évolution radicale du débat mondial sur l’éducation, au cours des 20 dernières années, d’abord  essentiellement centré sur l’accès, et aujourd’hui sur la qualité, les compétences… c’est un changement considérable, et là  encore, l’UNESCO a conçu les outils qui structurent ce débat.
(24.28) Regardons l’engagement de l’UNESCO en Afrique, pour le développement des politiques scientifiques et  technologiques : deux ans après le premier forum historique de Nairobi, la déclaration ministérielle de Rabat, l’an dernier,  témoigne d’un engagement politique sans précédent sur ce sujet. C’est ce cap que nous conserver, en adaptant constamment  nos réponses aux évolutions du monde actuel.
(24.29) Dans un monde plus complexe, souvent imprévisible, les États ne veulent pas simplement être les bénéficiaires de  programmes. Ils veulent être capables de les concevoir et de les mettre en œuvre eux-mêmes. Cette vision est dans l’ADN de  l’UNESCO et des institutions spécialisées. Qu’il s’agisse d’appui normatif aux pays, de conseil stratégique intégré, de  renforcement des capacités, l’UNESCO doit être plus présente auprès des États.
(24.30) L’UNESCO est une institution mondiale pour le talent, la créativité – ce sont nos ressources renouvelables par  excellence. À l’heure où l’humanité se confronte à ses limites – limites de ses moyens, limites de la planète – nous devons  investir davantage et définir de nouvelles voies pour protéger les biens publics mondiaux : l’éducation, le partage des  connaissances, la diversité culturelle.
(24.31) Léon Tolstoï ne disait pas autre chose, en rappelant que « Nous ne savons rien. Le seul espoir de savoir, c'est de  savoir tous ensemble, c'est de fondre toutes les classes dans le savoir et la science. » C’est notre marque distinctive que nous  devons mettre en œuvre. Et nous devons être confiants, car nous avons réussi, ensemble, à faire d’une crise historique un  levier de réforme.  (La Directrice générale poursuit en français)
24.32 Mesdames et Messieurs, l’UNESCO a été la première institution spécialisée à voir le jour après la création de  l’Organisation des Nations Unies et notre anniversaire coïncide avec les 70 ans de l’ONU. Dès ma prise de fonction, j’ai  pris l’engagement de rapprocher l’UNESCO des autres institutions du système, pour mieux travailler ensemble. Le  contrat est rempli mais nous allons continuer sur les mêmes rails. Que ce soit avec l’ONU-Femmes et le Fonds des  Nations Unies pour la population, aux fins de l’éducation des adolescentes, avec le soutien de la Banque mondiale, ou  bien au sein de l’ONU-SIDA, où nous venons d’adopter une stratégie commune à 10 agences pour lutter contre le  VIH/SIDA.
24.33 Dès demain, nous lancerons le Cadre d’action Éducation 2030, commun à toutes les agences, qui marque aussi  le leadership de l’UNESCO dans ce domaine. Je pense également au Partenariat mondial pour l’éducation des filles et  des femmes, que j’ai lancé en 2011 et qui fédère aussi des partenariats privés, notamment Procter et Gamble, Packard  Foundation, la compagnie aérienne chinoise Hainan, la société coréenne CJ, parmi bien d’autres.
24.34 Dans tous les domaines de son mandat, au-delà de l’éducation, l’UNESCO a resserré ses liens avec le système  des Nations Unies, que soit avec l’Union internationale des télécommunications, au sein de la Commission sur le haut  débit, avec l’Office des Nations Unies contre la drogue et le crime, dans la lutte contre le trafic illicite des biens culturels,  avec le Programme des Nations Unies pour l’environnement, pour la gestion de l’eau et la protection de la biodiversité,  avec l’Organisation mondiale du tourisme et le Programme des Nations Unies pour le développement, avec l’Assemblée  générale des Nations Unies, pour les résolutions sur la culture et le développement ou la sécurité des journalistes, ou  encore avec le Conseil de sécurité, pour traiter du lien entre la culture, l’éducation et la prévention de l’extrémisme  violent.
24.35 L’UNESCO a montré sa capacité à conduire des initiatives globales au nom des Nations Unies – le Conseil  consultatif scientifique auprès du Secrétaire général de l’ONU, hébergé par l’UNESCO, et l’Initiative de M. Ban Ki-moon  l’Éducation avant tout.
24.36 L’UNESCO participe à la mise en œuvre du mécanisme mondial de transfert des technologies (MTT), qui peut  révolutionner le partage des savoir-faire entre pays et le paysage de la formation et des compétences, et elle doit être à  l’avant-poste dans ce domaine. L’UNESCO s’est servie de cette logique de partenariat pour élargir sa base de donateurs,  et surtout repenser ses moyens de financement avec le développement de fonds au bénéfice du donateur, des  partenariats de long terme, plus prévisibles, et de nouveaux schémas de coopération Sud-Sud. Voilà concrètement,  Mesdames et Messieurs, comment l’UNESCO se transforme. Il faut aller plus loin : l’Agenda 2030 suppose des  adaptations à tous les niveaux.
24.37 Le message que je veux faire passer aujourd’hui est que l’UNESCO est prête et récolte les fruits de la réforme,  et que nous allons poursuivre dans cette voie. L’UNESCO participe déjà aux projets pilotes de partage des ressources  entre institutions, pour gagner en synergie. Elle a investi dans de nouveaux outils de gestion de l’information, connectés  entre les services et sur le terrain. Grâce au nouveau portail de transparence, chacun peut voir, d’un simple clic, où va  l’argent des donateurs et pour quel impact. C’est un changement radical. Nous avons remis à plat la plupart de nos outils  d’évaluation, d’une manière qui a été saluée par le Corps commun d’inspection du système des Nations Unies.  L’UNESCO est l’une des toutes premières institutions du système à avoir adopté les Normes comptables internationales  pour le secteur public (IPSAS), qui sont opérationnelles depuis 2010.
24.38 L’UNESCO a accueilli cette année le Conseil des chefs de secrétariat, et nous sommes pleinement engagés  dans la réforme de tout le système des Nations Unies au sein du Comité de haut niveau sur la gestion (HLCM) que je  préside depuis un an.
24.39 La Conférence générale examine à cette session un programme et budget conçu à partir d’une gestion axée sur  les résultats, ce qui nous place parmi les institutions leaders dans ce domaine. Lors de la dernière session de la  Conférence générale, vous aviez adopté plusieurs mesures pour repenser les relations avec nos partenaires, les ONG,  les ambassadeurs de bonne volonté, le secteur privé. Nous avons scrupuleusement mis en œuvre ces orientations. Le  réseau des chaires UNESCO a été réformé, de même que le réseau des centres de catégorie 2. La coopération avec les  commissions nationales connaît un renouveau dont vous êtes nombreux à témoigner, et je vous en suis reconnaissante.  Surtout, malgré la crise et le manque de financements, nous avons poursuivi la réforme du dispositif hors Siège en  Afrique. Il aurait été plus facile de suspendre ces efforts en attendant des jours meilleurs. Nous avons préféré anticiper.  Nous avons absorbé les coûts de la réforme, simplifié le dispositif, renforcé l’autonomie des bureaux et renouvelé leurs  directeurs, en mettant l’accent sur l’égalité des genres. Les progrès de l’UNESCO dans ce domaine viennent d’ailleurs
39  d’être salués par l’ONU-Femmes Durant toute cette période, nous avons été guidés par une vision stratégique claire et  par les principes définis par l’Évaluation externe indépendante, dont nous avons régulièrement rendu compte du suivi.
24.40 Bien sûr, l’UNESCO a souffert de la crise. Les programmes ont souffert, et souffrent encore. J’ai supprimé près  de 500 postes sur 2 800 et redéployé le personnel d’une manière qui a été saluée par la Fédération des associations de  fonctionnaires internationaux (FICSA). L’UNESCO est aujourd’hui plus transparente, plus active dans ses deux priorités  globales, l’Afrique et l’Égalité des genres, et transformée dans ses méthodes de travail. J’appelle néanmoins à investir  dans l’UNESCO, dans la qualité de son réseau et de ses équipes, pour construire cette organisation plus forte dont vous  avez besoin.
24.41 Mesdames et Messieurs, le 1er novembre 1945, Archibald MacLeish ouvrait la première session de la  Conférence générale par ces mots: « L’UNESCO doit aider les peuples à mieux se connaître les uns et les autres, pour  qu’ils se reconnaissent comme les membres d’une seule humanité ». Se reconnaître comme une seule humanité :
70 ans plus tard, dans un monde traversé de fractures et doté de nouveaux outils de dialogue, cette ambition reste  intacte, même si les moyens d’y répondre doivent être modernisés.
24.42 Le poète Édouard Glissant disait qu’« après avoir découvert le monde entier, nous devons découvrir le monde  ensemble ». Vivre ensemble, et pas seulement côte à côte. Vivre ensemble dans des sociétés diversifiées, où les  discours abstraits sur le « dialogue des cultures » ne suffisent plus. Il faut trouver des moyens concrets de vivre  ensemble au quotidien – défaire les préjugés, construire les défenses contre le racisme, l’antisémitisme, l’intolérance,  dans les médias ou dans la rue, fortifier les droits humains qui nous rassemblent, au contact permanent de la diversité.  C’est la nouvelle frontière de la diversité culturelle, et ce défi s’inscrit dans un processus historique de longue durée.
24.43 Depuis les grandes découvertes du 16e siècle jusqu’aux nouvelles technologies d’aujourd’hui, l’humanité a  montré sa capacité à créer des contacts et abolir les distances. Il n’y a pas un endroit isolé du globe qui n’ait été intégré  au reste de l’humanité, sans distinction de race, d’origine ou de religion. L’enjeu n’est plus d’abolir les distances  physiques, mais les distances morales – passer de la « mise en contact » à la « mise en commun ». C’est la proposition  que j’ai faite d’un nouvel humanisme. L’enjeu, c’est de construire une nouvelle relation avec les autres et aussi avec  l’environnement, qui n’est pas seulement un espace à exploiter dont nous serions « maîtres et possesseurs », mais un  lieu où vivre en harmonie, y compris avec les êtres vivants non humains, la biodiversité. La diversité culturelle est  inséparable de la biodiversité : l’UNESCO affirmait déjà ce principe il y a 15 ans. Aujourd’hui, alors que les scientifiques  nous alertent sur une nouvelle « extinction massive des espèces » et que nous voyons en même temps les extrémistes  se livrer au nettoyage culturel, l’UNESCO doit sonner l’alarme.
24.44 Devant ce défi colossal, tous les États mesurent la profonde pertinence et la cohérence de notre mandat, et le  besoin de traiter ensemble l’éducation, le dialogue des cultures, la liberté de la presse, qui sont des armes de résistance  et de résilience, le besoin d’investir dans la recherche, la prévention des risques, l’éducation au développement durable.  Nous voyons tous les jours que cela est possible. Je pense au projet scientifique Sésame, en Jordanie, qui rassemble  des scientifiques de tous les horizons et qui reprend, 60 ans après, le projet du CERN créé à l’initiative de l’UNESCO. Je  pense aux sites du patrimoine transfrontaliers, aux réserves naturelles partagées entre plusieurs pays, notamment à  celles de notre Programme sur l’Homme et la biosphère. Je pense aux cultures ancestrales qui nous alertent sur les  dangers des tsunamis, que ce soit dans des stèles de pierre au Japon, qui marquent l’emplacement de la montée des  eaux, ou dans l’architecture traditionnelle des Maldives, qui sauve des vies. Ce savoir relie entre elles les générations  successives. Je pense aux élans de solidarité qui dépassent les frontières,  aux foules immenses de Londres et Bagdad,  de Rio et de Mumbai, qui ont exprimé leur volonté d’être debout face à l’extrémisme, après les attentats de Paris, de  Copenhague, de Bamako et de Tunis.
24.45 Le philosophe Emmanuel Kant disait que l’enthousiasme qui nous anime lorsque nous voyons d’autres hommes  et femmes se lever pour des valeurs universelles, à l’autre bout du monde, crée en nous le sentiment d’appartenir à une  même humanité, engagée vers le progrès, vers une exigence morale. Ce sont ces valeurs que l’UNESCO a le devoir de  propager. Et c’est pourquoi, dans ce monde aux multiples fractures, les États membres de l’UNESCO doivent utiliser le  patrimoine, matériel, immatériel, documentaire, comme une force de rapprochement et non de division. Notre  responsabilité est de faire vivre des projets qui nous rassemblent, dans tous les domaines : consolider le Système  mondial d’observation de l’océan, accessible à tous en temps réel, 50 ans après le lancement du Système d’alerte aux  tsunamis ; assurer l’accès à une éducation de qualité pour tous, en utilisant le potentiel des nouvelles technologies ;  constituer des archives de notre mémoire commune et des manuels d’histoires en commun ; protéger des sites du  patrimoine partagés, au carrefour de plusieurs cultures, confessions, ou États ; changer de regard, par exemple, sur les  petits États insulaires, qui sont en réalité de vastes États océaniques en première ligne du changement climatique et  dont l’expertise est vitale pour le monde – dans l’esprit de l’Agenda de Samoa.
24.46 Partout dans le monde, des initiatives suscitent l’espoir et nous montrent les infinies ressources du talent  humain, sa capacité à créer de nouvelles formes de solidarité. Voilà, Mesdames et Messieurs, ce qu’est le nouvel  humanisme. Si l’humanité a réussi, par la science et la technologie, à poser un petit robot sur une comète à 500 millions  de kilomètres de la Terre, après 10 ans de voyage dans l’espace, elle peut réussir, par l’éducation et la culture, à  construire une citoyenneté mondiale, ouverte sur les autres, ouverte sur le monde. La culture, j’en suis convaincue, nous  indique la voie : elle enseigne la tolérance et montre qu’il n’y a pas de « culture pure », car nos destins sont liés et  s’enrichissent mutuellement, constamment.
24.47 L’extrémisme aura toujours peur de la culture parce que celle-ci incarne l’unité du genre humain dans sa  diversité. C’est le message des bustes funéraires de Palmyre, qui nous parlent de la rencontre des peuples de l’Europe  et de l’Asie, le long des routes caravanières du Moyen-Orient. C’est le message des voyageurs des routes de la Soie,  qui ont porté jusqu’en Chine les préceptes du bouddhisme, de l’islam et du christianisme, et jusqu’en Europe le papier, la
40  boussole et le thé. C’est le message de la sagesse Ubuntu, que l’on retrouve sous diverses formes dans toutes les  cultures du monde : nous avons besoin des autres pour être pleinement nous-mêmes.
24.48 À notre tour de transmettre ce message et de dire, par exemple, que si la Renaissance européenne s’est  nourrie de savoirs grecs transmis par les Arabes, aujourd’hui les manuscrits de Tombouctou font rêver d’une autre  renaissance, née des sables du Sahel, aux sources d’une sagesse islamique millénaire. C’est ce pacte fondamental,  pour l’humanisme et pour la diversité culturelle, que nous sommes appelés à renouer. C’était le vœu des fondateurs de  l’UNESCO. Il leur a fallu de l’audace, en 1945, pour oser parler de solidarité intellectuelle dans les décombres de la  guerre. Devant les urgences du monde actuel, nous devons retrouver la même audace visionnaire : elle est l’âme de  l’UNESCO, et résiste au passage du temps.
24.49 Je terminerai, Mesdames et Messieurs, en citant le grand Naguib Mahfouz, qui disait que « la vérité et la justice  demeureront aussi longtemps que l’humanité aura un esprit réfléchi et une conscience en éveil ». C’est bien là notre  mission première : maintenir en éveil cette « conscience de l’humanité » dont parlait Jawaharlal Nerhu. Nous y sommes  plus déterminés que jamais et, à 70 ans, l’UNESCO n’a jamais été aussi jeune, aussi profondément actuelle et  pertinente. Elle va continuer à se renouveler et à innover, pour le développement durable et pour la paix. Je vous  remercie.
25.1 The President:   Thank you very much, Madam Director-General, and congratulations on this most comprehensive introduction to  the general policy debate, which lays a solid foundation for our forthcoming work. Ladies and gentlemen, we have  another very special guest paying us a visit this afternoon, Sheikh Hamdan bin Rashid Al Maktoum, Deputy Ruler of  Dubai and Minister of Finance of the United Arab Emirates. I will now suspend the meeting for five minutes in order to  welcome our distinguished visitor. I kindly ask you all to remain in your seats.  The meeting is suspended briefly to allow the President of the General Conference   to welcome Sheikh Hamdan to Room I and escort him to his place
(26.1) Cheikh Hamdan bin Rashid Al Maktoum (Émirats arabes unis) (traduit de l’arabe) :   Au nom de Dieu, le Clément, le Miséricordieux. Madame Irina Bokova, Directrice générale de l’Organisation des  Nations Unies pour l'éducation, la science et la culture (UNESCO), Monsieur le Président de la 38e session de la Conférence  générale, Mesdames et Messieurs, je vous remercie de votre généreuse invitation à participer aux travaux de la 38e session  de la Conférence générale, et j’apprécie à sa juste valeur l’occasion qui m’est donnée de m’adresser à vous directement dans  le cadre d’un partenariat visant à assurer le bonheur de l’humanité. Je voudrais tout d’abord vous transmettre les salutations  du Gouvernement et du peuple des Émirats arabes unis, avec à leur tête le Président de l’État, Son Altesse le Sheikh Khalifa  Bin Zayed Al Nahyan (que Dieu le protège), le Vice-Président de l’État, Premier Ministre et Gouverneur de Doubaï, Son  Altesse le Sheikh Mohammed Bin Rashid Al Maktoum (que Dieu le préserve), et leurs Altesses les membres du Conseil  fédéral suprême et gouverneurs des Émirats.
(26.2) Mesdames et Messieurs, je peux affirmer, non sans fierté, que les Émirats utilisent leurs ressources humaines,  matérielles et culturelles pour promouvoir de nobles valeurs, et se penchent sur les questions humaines pour trouver des  solutions durables aux problèmes du moment, notamment la pauvreté, l’ignorance, la maladie, les catastrophes naturelles et  les crises. Les Émirats tiennent à appuyer efficacement les efforts internationaux visant à aider les déplacés, à secourir les  sinistrés, à accueillir les sans-abris, à soigner les malades, à soutenir l’éducation, à assurer l’approvisionnement en eau et en  nourriture et à construire des écoles, des dispensaires et des infrastructures. Grâce à leurs nobles intentions et à leurs  contributions, les Émirats occupaient en 2013 un rang élevé dans le classement des principaux pays donateurs en matière  d’aide au développement, avec un montant total de plus de 5 milliards de dollars versés à plus de 137 pays et régions  géographiques dans le monde par l’intermédiaire de 43 organismes humanitaires et de bienfaisance opérant aux Émirats.  S’ajoutent à cela les nombreuses initiatives individuelles des habitants des Émirats, notamment celle prise par le Président  des Émirats arabes unis, Son Altesse le Sheikh Khalifa Bin Zayed Al Nahyan, à travers la Fondation Khalifa Bin Zayed Al  Nahyan pour les œuvres humanitaires, qui est venue en aide à 87 pays. Le Vice-Président de l’État, Premier Ministre et  Gouverneur de Doubaï, Son Altesse le Sheikh Mohammed Bin Rashid Al Maktoum, a pour sa part créé la Fondation Global  Initiatives. Il s’agit d’une des plus grandes fondations d’aide au développement humain et son objectif, d’ici 2025, est  d’appuyer le développement de plus de 130 millions de personnes en consacrant, entre autres, 5,5 milliards de dirhams à  l’innovation, 3 milliards de dirhams à la construction de centres de recherche et d’hôpitaux, 1,5 milliard de dirhams à des  initiatives dans le domaine de l’éducation et du savoir, et 600 millions de dirhams à la promotion d’une culture de la tolérance  dans 116 pays à travers le monde.
(26.3) Mesdames et Messieurs, je tiens à vous dire combien j’apprécie les efforts louables que vous déployez dans le  domaine de l’éducation, notamment l’appui que vous apportez aux initiatives locales visant à édifier une société mondiale du  savoir fondée sur des valeurs élevées. L’éducation aux Émirats connaît une mutation qualitative axée sur une vision intégrée  et une transition vers un apprentissage intelligent s’appuyant sur l’aide du Gouvernement et des initiatives sociétales. L’accueil  favorable que vous avez réservé à notre initiative en faveur des pratiques éducatives exemplaires, ainsi qu’à notre partenariat  dans le Prix UNESCO-Hamdan Bin Rashid Al Maktoum récompensant des pratiques et des performances exemplaires pour  améliorer l'efficacité des enseignants, est un parfait exemple de coopération. Des rapports impartiaux relèvent d’ailleurs une  augmentation du nombre d’enseignants ayant des performances exemplaires ainsi que leur volonté d’offrir un enseignement  de qualité grâce à la culture du savoir instaurée par ce prix il y a 17 ans. Nous aspirons à poursuivre notre action et à  intensifier nos efforts, en coopération avec l’UNESCO, afin de multiplier les possibilités de récompenser les pratiques  exemplaires d’enseignants dans les pays en développement. L’intérêt porté à l’enseignement aux Émirats va de pair avec la  promotion de la culture de la civilisation humaine dans la démarche éducative, car le patrimoine humain fixe constamment  l’attention en raison de sa valeur éducative et historique. C’est pourquoi nous condamnons toute atteinte aux vestiges des  civilisations humaines, et tout acte de destruction visant ces derniers, partout dans le monde. Nous sommes parfaitement  conscients de l’ampleur des défis et suivons avec regret les conflits internationaux et les actes de terrorisme et de destruction,  d’où la nécessité d’unir les efforts en vue d’un avenir plus prospère et plus radieux pour l’humanité. Merci à vous tous. Que  Dieu vous bénisse et récompense vos efforts. Que la paix et la miséricorde et la bénédiction de Dieu soient sur vous.
27. The President:   Thank you very much for your inspiring words, Your Highness. Ladies and gentlemen, Sheikh Hamdan bin  Rashid Al Maktoum is so humble that he did not even mention in his speech that he has made an important donation to  UNESCO. Part of this very generous donation will benefit UNESCO’s educational programmes, while the remainder will  be dedicated to renovating this conference room where we are. Your Highness, on behalf of all Member States, I wish to  express our heartfelt gratitude for the generous endowment you have made to UNESCO, an endowment which will  ensure a long-lasting legacy. I believe we can safely say that Room I will never be the same after your visit. Ladies and  gentlemen, before I adjourn this meeting, can I kindly ask you to remain seated while Sheikh Hamdan bin Rashid Al  Maktoum and his entourage leave the room.  Sheikh Hamdan is escorted from Room I.
28. The President:   Excellencies, ladies and gentlemen, we have now come to the end of our second plenary meeting of this  General Conference. Our work will resume tomorrow at 10 a.m. sharp. I would like to kindly ask all delegates to be in  their seats by 9.45 a.m. to enable us to start our work on time. I also wish to remind the Members of the Bureau that we  will hold our first meeting tomorrow morning at 9 a.m. in Room X. Before adjourning the meeting, I wish to give the floor  to the Secretary for a brief announcement. Mr Rao, you have the floor.
29.1 Le Secrétaire :   Merci, Monsieur le Président. Deux annonces. D’une part, tout de suite après la clôture de cette séance aura  lieu dans le hall Ségur l’inauguration de l’exposition « Mosaïque du changement » organisée à l’occasion du
70e anniversaire de l’UNESCO et de la 38e Conférence générale.
29.2 Ensuite, à 19 heures ce soir, le Président de la Conférence générale et la Directrice générale de l’UNESCO  donneront une réception à l’occasion de la 38e session de la Conférence générale en l’honneur des chefs de délégation  et des ambassadeurs auprès de l’UNESCO, au 7e étage du bâtiment. Merci, Monsieur le Président.
30. The President:   Thank you very much, Mr Rao, for those announcements and thank you all for your attention. The meeting is  now adjourned.  The meeting rose at 5.50 p.m.  La séance est levée à 17 h 50  Se levanta la sesión a las 17.50  Заседание закрывается в 17.50  الظهر بعد ٥,٥٠اسلسة يف الساعة  رفعت   会议于 17 时 50 分结束