334  Report on the work of the Bureau of the Conference  Rapport sur les travaux du Bureau de la Conférence   Informe sobre las labores de la Mesa de la Conferencia  Доклад Президиума о работе   مكتب المؤتمر العامتقرير عن أعمال     大会主席团的工作报告
1.1 The President:    Good morning Excellencies, ladies and gentlemen. I declare open the sixteenth plenary meeting of the General  Conference. As you are aware, today and tomorrow will be the penultimate days of our General Conference. The plenary  meetings of today and tomorrow will be dedicated to the examination of reports of the programme commissions and  committees and the adoption of the Appropriation Resolution. We will also have a brief closing ceremony to mark the end  of our work.
1.2 Excellencies, ladies and gentlemen, before starting with the adoption of the reports, I would like to inform you  that the Bureau of the General Conference held its fifth meeting this morning. The Bureau reviewed the organization of  the last phase of work of our General Conference and examined two draft resolutions which I will now present for your  attention. The first draft resolution concerns the tribute to the President of the 37th session of the General Conference,  Mr Hao Ping. The Bureau, at its meeting this morning, acknowledged the diplomatic skill, humility and wisdom with which  Mr Hao Ping presided over the General Conference, and recommended the adoption of the draft resolution contained in  document 38 C/PLEN/DR.2. Dear colleagues, if you so permit, I will now ask the Secretary to read out the text of this  resolution. Mr Secretary you have the floor.  Tribute to the President of the 37th session of the General Conference   Hommage au Président de la 37e session de la Conférence générale  Homenaje al Presidente de la 37ª reunión de la Conferencia General  Выражение признательности Председателю 37-й сессии Генеральной конференции  رئيس الدورة السابعة والثالثين للمؤتمر العامب إشادة   向大会第三十七届会议主席致敬
2. The Secretary:    Thank you, Mr President. The text of 38 C/PLEN/DR.2 reads as follows: “Tribute to the President of the General  Conference. The General Conference, mindful that H.E. Mr Hao Ping concluded his term of office as President of the  General Conference at the opening of the 38th session, noting with appreciation the efforts he deployed to promote  harmony, dialogue and mutual understanding among the Member States of UNESCO, acknowledging his unswerving  commitment to promote the universal values and ideals of the Organization, appreciating his accomplishments in  developing public/private partnerships in support of UNESCO’s programmes, recognizing his efforts to enhance the  image and visibility of UNESCO around the world, advancing particularly girls’ and women’s education, dialogue among  cultures, the use of information and communication technology (ICT) in education, and UNESCO’s role in the 2030  Agenda for Sustainable Development, recalling the diplomatic skills, humility and wisdom with which he has carried out  his high responsibilities, conveys its high esteem and gratitude to His Excellency, Mr Hao Ping, for the contribution he  has made to UNESCO during his term of office”. Thank you, Mr President.
3.  The President:    Thank you very much, Mr Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, may I take it that the General Conference adopts  this resolution by acclamation? It is so decided. Thank you very much.  Tribute to the Chairperson of the Executive Board  Hommage au Président du Conseil exécutif  Homenaje al Presidente del Consejo Ejecutivo  Выражение признательности Председателю Исполнительного совета  شادة برئيس المجلس التنفيذي≈   向执行局主席致敬
4. The President:    Ladies and gentlemen, the round of applause shows our collective appreciation of Mr Hao Ping’s leadership.  Excellencies, the General Committee also decided to pay tribute to the Chair of the Executive Board, His Excellency  Mr Mohamed Sameh Amr who is here with us. The Committee recognized his leadership and professionalism and the  dedication with which he presided over the Board, and proposed that the General Conference adopt the draft resolution  contained in document 38 C/PLEN/DR.3. Dear colleagues, I now give the floor to the Secretary of the General  Conference who will read out this text. Mr Secretary, you have the floor.
5. The Secretary:    Thank you, Mr President. The draft resolution 38 C/PLEN/DR.3 reads as follows. “Tribute to the Chair of the  Executive Board. The General Conference, noting that H.E. Mr Mohamed Sameh Amr will conclude his term of office as  Chair of the Executive Board, which he has held since 22 November 2013, at the end of the 38th session of the General  Conference, recalling the professionalism and dedication with which he assumed his role as Chair of the Executive
335  Board, confirming his unswerving commitment to the ideals of UNESCO’s Constitution in the execution of his mandate,  recognizing his leadership and support for UNESCO’s mandate in the fields of education, science, culture, and  communication and information, and his advocacy for UNESCO’s relevance especially as it relates to, inter alia, the  preparations of the post-2015 development agenda, including education beyond 2015, the protection and preservation of  culture in conflict areas, and the safety of journalists and the issue of impunity, also recognizing the important role he  played in making full use of UNESCO’s wealth of expertise and of its role as an intellectual and cultural hub, thus  ensuring the Organization’s continued importance and relevance in the world of today, through the organization of a  series of meetings under the banner “UNESCO at 70 and Future Prospects” as the Organization celebrates its 70th  anniversary, acknowledging the efforts made by the Executive Board, under his leadership, towards greater optimization  of its governance role, conveying its appreciation for the work to renovate the Executive Board meeting room and the  Delegates’ Lounge, undertaken through his leadership, expresses its profound gratitude to H.E. Mr Mohamed Sameh  Amr for the invaluable services that he has rendered to the Organization.” Thank you, Mr President.
6.  The President:    Thank you very much, Mr Secretary. Excellencies, may I take it that the General Conference adopts this  resolution by acclamation. Thank you very much. It is so decided. Ladies and gentlemen, allow me now to give the floor  to the Director-General who wishes to say a few words. Madam Director-General.
7.1  The Director-General:    Thank you very much Mr President. Mr Chair of the Executive Board, Excellencies, ladies and gentlemen, I am  truly honoured to have this opportunity once again to thank Mr Mohamed Sameh Amr for his leadership of the Executive  Board of UNESCO. Ambassador Amr, you have captained the Executive Board at a turning point, a turning point for the  world, as countries accelerated to reach the 2015 Millennium Development Goals (MDGs) and shaped the new 2030  Agenda for Sustainable Development, a turning point for the Organization as the call for UNESCO has risen from  societies across the world for support in advancing inclusive, equitable education and quality education and lifelong  learning for all, in harnessing the sciences, safeguarding culture in conflict, in protecting freedom of expression and, I  believe, guided by deep commitment to the values of dialogue and respect and driven by the principles and objectives  that have underpinned our Organization for the last 70 years. I wish to thank you once again for accompanying and  helping UNESCO grow and succeed in all its tasks.   (The Director-General continues in French)
7.2 J’ai déjà eu l’occasion, Monsieur le Président, de vous saluer et d’évoquer tout ce que vous avez fait pendant la  dernière session du Conseil exécutif. J’ai pu aussi vous remercier pour votre engagement en faveur de l’UNESCO en  ces temps difficiles. Votre détermination à assurer la rénovation de la salle X est également un symbole de leadership.  C’est aussi un symbole du rôle dirigeant du Conseil exécutif, notamment dans la dernière ligne de l’adoption de l’Agenda
2030 pour le développement durable et dans la préparation de la COP21.
7.3 La médaille du 70e anniversaire de l’UNESCO symbolise notre attachement collectif aux valeurs portées par  l’Organisation, notre conviction que la haine et l’extrémisme violent peuvent être vaincus par l’éducation à la paix, par la  culture de la paix. Contre cette maladie de l’esprit, c’est précisément avec les armes de l’esprit que nous devons lutter.  Ce message revêt une signification particulière au lendemain des attentats de Paris. L’Égypte, Monsieur l’Ambassadeur,  connaît, elle aussi, le prix de l’extrémisme et a souffert, encore récemment, des attaques terroristes. Contre cette peste,  l’UNESCO a une responsabilité particulière à assumer, une contribution à apporter. Votre action durant ces deux années  à la tête du Conseil exécutif l’a bien montré et j’espère que nous poursuivrons cette tâche tous ensemble à l’avenir, sous  d’autres formes.
7.4 Permettez-moi, Monsieur le Président, d’’offrir à l’Ambassadeur Amr, Président du Conseil exécutif, la médaille  de commémoration du 70e anniversaire de l’UNESCO devant cette assemblée plénière.
8.  The President    Thank you very much, Madam Director-General. Let me invite my dear friend and colleague, Ambassador Amr,  to take the floor. My dear friend, you have the floor.
9.  Mr Amr (Egypt) (Chair of the Executive Board):    Thank you Mr President. Mr President, Madam Director-General, distinguished delegates, my dear colleagues  and friends, let me take this opportunity to express my gratitude to you all. It has been an honour to serve this  Organization as Chair of the Executive Board. Mr President, Madam Director-General, I do not need to tell you just how  much our world needs UNESCO. We are the moral compass that guides universal respect for justice and equality  amongst all people, now more than ever. I wish you both all the best. I wish also good luck to my successor. Please note  that I will remain faithful to UNESCO and will defend it forever.
10.  The President:    Thank you very much my dear friend. That really was less than two minutes. Unfortunately I have run out of  stock in terms of chocolates, but we will see what we can do bilaterally between us. Mr Chair of the Executive Board,  dear friend, I hope that the medal presented to you by the Director-General will serve you as a constant reminder of the  General Conference’s strong appreciation of your leadership. On behalf of all of us here today, including many  delegations who would have preferred to take the floor personally, I want to thank you very much again for your service  and commitment to our beloved Organization. Once again, thank you very much.
336  Report of the Natural Sciences Commission (SC) (38 C/92)  Rapport de la Commission Sciences exactes et naturelles (SC) (38 C/92)  Informe de la Comisión de Ciencias Exactas y Naturales (SC) (38 C/92)  Доклад Комиссии по естественным наукам (SC) (38 C/92)   )٩٢م/٣٨ج )SC(تقرير لجنة العلوم الطبيعية  自然科学委员会（SC）的报告（38 C/92）
11. The President:    Excellencies, we will now proceed to examine the report of the Natural Sciences Commission. I would therefore  like to give the floor to Her Excellency, Ms Noorul Ainur Binti Mohamed Nur, who will introduce the report contained in  document 38 C/92. Your Excellency, you have the floor.
12.1 Ms Nur (Malaysia) (Chairperson of the SC Commission):   Thank you Mr President. Mr President of the General Conference, Mr Chair of the Executive Board, Madam  Director-General, Excellencies, distinguished delegates, ladies and gentlemen. Before I begin my report on the Natural  Sciences Commission, I would like to express my sincere condolences and solidarity with the French people. Now more  than ever, we must remain committed to UNESCO’s mandate in building peace through shared understanding.
12.2 As Chairperson of the Natural Sciences Commission, it is my great pleasure to present the conclusions of the  Commission’s work to this honourable assembly. First and foremost, allow me to thank the members of the Bureau of the  Natural Sciences Commission for their valuable support: Vice-Chairpersons Mr Nizamettin Kazanci (Turkey), Ms Ligia do  Cardona (Dominican Republic) and Ms Gakou Salimata Fofana (Mali), Mr Abdullah Ahmed Abdulsalam (Sudan) and our  Rapporteur Mr Radovan Stanislav Pejovnik (Slovenia). I also wish to pay tribute to the Secretary of the Natural Sciences  Commission and to his team for their assistance behind the scenes in ensuring the efficient work of the Commission. I  should also like to thank the representatives of the Director-General, Ms Flavia Schlegel, Assistant Director-General for  Natural Sciences, and Mr Vladimir Ryabinin, Assistant Director-General and Executive Secretary of the  Intergovernmental Oceanographic Commission (IOC), and Mr Jean Yves Le Saux, Director of Programme and Budget in  the Bureau of Strategic Planning (BSP). Their productive exchanges with the Commission were most appreciated.
12.3 The Natural Sciences Commission began its work on Monday 9 November, and met four times. The  Commission’s work was organized around five debates and nine agenda items. I shall present the results of our work  according to the adopted timetable, which is also reflected in the written report. Prior to the Commission’s examination of  the first item on the agenda, Mr Sergio Guevara, Chairperson of the MAB International Coordinating Council (ICC-MAB)  read out a joint statement by the Chairpersons of the following programmes: the International Basic Sciences  Programme (IBSP), the International Geoscience Programme (IGCP), the International Hydrological Programme (IHP),  the Programme on Man and the Biosphere (MAB), the Management of Social Transformations Programme (MOST) and  the Intergovernmental Oceanographic Commission (IOC). In their joint statement, the Chairpersons pledged to support  the Director-General as she seeks to reinforce the role of the sciences within UNESCO and in the broader international  community. They underscored the importance of promoting awareness of the roles of the international science  programmes and of UNESCO in the sciences within the United Nations system in order to deliver on the 2030 Agenda  for Sustainable Development. I would also like to thank Ms Houda Ait Mik, representative of the World Federation of  Engineering Organizations, and Ms Denise Young, representative of the International Council for Science, who spoke at  this point. The Commission then took note of the reports of IBSP, IGCP, IHP, MAB and IOC on their activities in
2014−2015, as well as the report of the UNESCO-IHE Institute for Water Education.
12.4 Next to take the floor under agenda item 4.5, “Conclusion of the Youth Forum: Young Global Citizens for a  Sustainable Planet”, was the Youth Forum representative, Ms Samantha Montesarchio. Describing the Forum’s  conclusions as regards natural sciences, Ms Montesarchio emphasized the importance of addressing climate change,  promoting innovation and focusing on the environmental education of future generations. The Commission thanked  Ms Montesarchio for her presentation and took note of the Youth Forum’s conclusions.
12.5 The Commission then took up item 3.4 of the agenda, namely the “Preparation of the Draft Programme and  Budget for 2018-2021 (39 C/5)”. The Director of the Programme and Budget for the Bureau of Strategic Planning gave a  brief presentation of the preparation of the future Programme and Budget for 2018-2021 (draft document 39 C/5). He  recalled the recommendation of the 197th session of the Executive Board to the General Conference that it approve the  roadmap proposed by the Secretariat for preparation of draft document 39 C/5. He explained the key milestones for the  roadmap including the resolution taken by the General Conference at its 38th session to set the stage for launching the  preparation of document 39 C/5. He emphasized the crucial importance of science, technology and innovation in the
2030 Agenda, and emphasized that UNESCO would play a major role in assisting Member States to achieve several  science-related Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs).
12.6 In her address, the Assistant Director-General for Natural Sciences (ADG/SC) emphasized that UNESCO’s  current programmes in science were particularly relevant to a number of the SDGs and had the potential in the future to  contribute to an even greater extent to the achievement of the 2030 Agenda. She informed the Commission that the  Natural Sciences Sector had undertaken an exercise to link the Sector’s work to the SDGs and its associated targets  which was set to continue in document 38 C/5. She underscored that UNESCO had critical comparative advantages in  the implementation of the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development, including extensive networks and its truly universal  and multisectoral mandate. In addition, UNESCO was responsible for the UNESCO Science Report, the Global  Observatory on Science, Technology and Innovation Policy Instruments (GO-SPIN) and the World Water Development  Report which were useful tools to measure progress in the 2030 Agenda.
12.7 In his address, the Assistant Director-General and Executive Secretary of IOC (ADG/Executive Secretary IOC)  noted that oceans had been specifically addressed in SDG 14. He discussed how IOC would contribute to SDG 14,  notably in the areas of capacity building, ocean observations, finding new solutions to issues such as ocean acidification  and management tools for oceans. He also emphasized IOC’s important work in climate change (notably its participation  in the twenty-first session of the Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate  Change - COP 21), mapping of ocean biodiversity, and its regional tsunami warning systems.
12.8 Forty-one delegates then took the floor to debate item 3.4. A number of delegates, in particular from Africa,  highlighted the importance of science technology and innovation in ensuring sustainable development. Various delegates  also highlighted the importance for UNESCO to focus on sustainability science. Global Geoparks were also mentioned  as an area on which the Sector should focus. Member States also requested more focused efforts and actions to support  science, technology, engineering and mathematics (STEM) education, and technical and vocational education and  training (TVET). Many delegates emphasized the importance of IOC and the need to continue to prioritize IOC in future  programmes and budgets. In particular, they highlighted the importance of tsunami warning systems and capacity  building in the ocean sciences. Portugal asked that the role and governance mechanisms of IOC be clarified. Many  speakers also highlighted the importance of IHP’s work relating to integrated water resources management and water  security, and the MAB Programme’s work relating to conserving biodiversity and the creation of the transboundary  biosphere reserves. Various delegates underscored the important work UNESCO was undertaking in the area of climate  change, including through IOC, and in the area of disaster risk reduction. Several speakers expressed their satisfaction  that UNESCO, notably through its intergovernmental and international scientific programmes, had taken on a leading role  in the preparation of the 2030 Agenda, and underscored that UNESCO was well positioned to continue to play a key role  within the new framework. Several delegates noted the importance of science, technology and innovation in achieving  the SDGs. A number of countries stressed the importance of the Natural Sciences Sector working in an interdisciplinary  way, including with the human and social sciences, and of taking advantage of its many strong networks such as  category 2 centres and UNESCO Chairs to multiply its impact. In their reply to the debate, ADG/SC and ADG/IOC  thanked the Member States for their positive comments and took note of the suggestions made by Member States to  ensure that UNESCO play a key role in the 2030 Agenda.
12.9 I would now like to turn to the next item on the agenda, item 3.2, “Consideration and adoption of the Draft  Budget for 2016-2017, Major Programme II – Natural Sciences”. In addition to document 38 C/5, the Commission also  considered the recommendations by the Executive Board contained in document 38 C/6 and its Addenda and  Corrigenda and two draft resolutions submitted by the Islamic Republic of Iran. In her overview, the Assistant Director- General for Natural Sciences recalled that draft document 38 C/5 with respect to Major Programme II was a continuation  of document 37 C/5 approved in the four-year programme cycle. She noted that for almost all expected results there  were no proposed changes. Following the Executive Board decisions, the Director-General proposed two minor changes  to the title of the main line of action (MLA) 4 and the associated expected result 7. She noted that as MLA 4 and  expected result 7 were uniquely concerned with the earth sciences, and biodiversity-related issues were embedded  within MLA 5, the word “biodiversity” had been removed from the title of MLA 4 and the words “ecological and” had been  removed from the title of expected result 7. She observed that the Director-General proposed also to further align the  allocated budgets by main line of action with the priorities set by Member States for Major Programme II, while adjusting  the performance indicators and targets for each expected result. She noted that those small adjustments were reflected  in document 38 C/6 and Addenda and Corrigenda.
12.10 Next to take the floor was the Assistant Director-General and IOC Executive Secretary. He noted that the Draft  Programme and Budget document had been reviewed in-depth and endorsed by the IOC Assembly at its 28th session in  June 2015. He noted that while expected results 4 and 6 remained unchanged, a small change had been introduced to  expected result 5 to emphasize IOC’s work on tsunamis based on the comments from Member States at the Executive  Board and endorsed by the IOC Assembly. He underscored that the proposed budget would allow IOC to assist more  small island developing States (SIDS) in the transfer of marine technology, to build capacity and to respond to some of  the most pressing staffing needs by creating a new Professional post to coordinate the work on ocean warming and  acidification.
12.11 Twenty-two Member States and one observer took the floor to express their support for draft document 38 C/5  as it concerned Major Programme II. Member States again emphasized the importance of appropriate funding for IOC,  IHP and MAB and underscored the importance of science, technology and innovation, as well as sustainability science  and Global Geoparks. At the end of the debate, the Commission recommended to the General Conference that it adopt  the proposed resolution relating to Major Programme II in draft document 38 C/5 as amended by the Executive Board in  document 38 C/6 and Addenda and Corrigenda. Following an explanation by ADG/SC of the Director-General’s  observations regarding the draft resolutions by the Islamic Republic of Iran, the Commission decided not to retain them.
12.12 The Assistant Director-General for Natural Sciences introduced item 4.4, which concerned the establishment of
17 category 2 institutes and centres under the auspices of UNESCO. Without a preliminary debate, the Commission  recommended to the General Conference that it adopt the resolutions for the establishment of all 17 proposed institutes  and centres. A number of countries then took the floor to elaborate further on the purpose of the centres and their  planned activities. Germany noted that it would propose that the Executive Board review category 2 centres on a more  strategic level as the number of centres was increasing rapidly.
12.13 The Assistant Director-General for Natural Sciences introduced item 4.16, which concerned the renewal and  revision of the operational agreement between UNESCO and the Government of the Netherlands on the UNESCO-IHE  Institute for Water Education and revision of the statutes of the Institute. She noted the process that was under way to  negotiate those documents with the Government of the Netherlands. A number of delegates took the floor to support the
338  work being done by UNESCO-IHE. The delegate for the Netherlands then took the floor to acknowledge those comments.  He noted that the Netherlands was committed to improving the operation agreement and statutes to ensure a solid  foundation for the Institute’s important work. The Commission recommended that the draft decision contained in  document 38 C/56 be adopted without modification.
12.14 I now turn to item 4.20 relating to the contribution by UNESCO to combating climate change. The Assistant  Director-General for Natural Sciences introduced the item, noting that document 38 C/67 described the current and  future actions of UNESCO to combat climate change, including preparations for COP 21 and looking forward to COP 22  in Morocco in 2016. The document also referred to the implementation of the Sustainable Development Goals, notably  SDG 13 to “take urgent measures to fight against climate change and its impacts”. She noted that the Director-General  would maintain the intersectoral UNESCO task force on climate change, led by ADG/SC, and that an update of the  UNESCO Strategy for Action on Climate Change would be presented to the Executive Board at its 200th session. Finally,  she outlined several areas of action that could be strengthened, provided that additional extrabudgetary resources were  made available. The Executive Secretary of IOC underscored the key role IOC would be playing at COP 21. He added  that it was imperative that negotiations led to a legally binding agreement on the reduction of greenhouse gases and that  the ocean needed to be integrated into the activities of the future climate regime.
12.15 Twenty-eight Member States took the floor. A great number welcomed document 38 C/67 and expressed their  appreciation of UNESCO’s role in the preparations for COP 21 and its interdisciplinary approach to the issue. Member  States in particular highlighted the role of IOC, IHP and MAB. A number of countries mentioned the importance of  UNESCO’s contributions in research, data sharing, indigenous and traditional knowledge and climate change education  and public awareness. A number of countries emphasized the need for effective monitoring mechanisms for the new  climate change framework. Tonga, speaking for 17 Pacific Member States, as well as the Philippines brought to the  attention of the Commission the importance of highlighting the vulnerability to climate change of least developed  countries and small island developing States.
12.16 In her response, ADG/SC thanked Member States for their support and underscored the importance of  UNESCO’s intersectoral approach to climate change. In response to a question from Saint Vincent and the Grenadines,  she reported that UNESCO had been invited for fast track accreditation to the Green Climate Fund and that the  Secretariat would inform the Executive Board of any developments in that regard. She informed Saint Lucia that the  issue of ethics of climate change was being addressed by the World Commission on the Ethics of Scientific Knowledge  and Technology (COMEST) and would be reflected when adopting the UNESCO Strategy for Action on Climate Change.  Following a debate on the draft resolution and a number of proposed amendments, the draft resolution contained in  document 38 C/67 was adopted with a modification proposed by Saint Lucia to eliminate text referring to specific  temperature targets and deferring to the agreement to be reached at COP 21.
12.17 The Commission then considered item 4.19, “Proclamation of 26 July as the International Day for the Defense of  the Mangrove Ecosystem”. ADG/SC introduced the item. She noted that the item had been presented at the request of  Ecuador and was supported by GRULAC. She further noted that the proposal underlined the great importance of  mangrove ecosystems to coastline protection, climate change mitigation and food security for local communities. She  noted that MAB, the Local and Indigenous Knowledge Systems (LINKS) Project, IHP, the World Heritage Centre, Global  Geoparks and IOC worked closely together on the issue. Fourteen Member States took the floor to support the  proclamation of 26 July as the “International Day for the Defense of the Mangrove Ecosystem”. They underscored the  important role mangrove ecosystems had in regulating climate change and conserving biodiversity. The Commission  recommended adoption of the draft resolution in document 38 C/66 with slight modifications.
12.18 The Commission then considered item 4.15 relating to the Man and the Biosphere (MAB) Programme Strategy  for the period 2015-2025. In her introduction to this item, ADG/SC noted that the strategy had been developed by the  MAB Bureau and a group of international experts and adopted by the MAB International Coordinating Council of the at its
27th session. She noted that the MAB Programme Strategy provided a clear framework for MAB to contribute to the  Sustainable Development Goals. Forty-one Member States took the floor. They strongly supported the MAB Programme  and welcomed the new strategy document. They noted the important role MAB and its biosphere reserves should play in  achieving the Sustainable Development Goals. Delegates underscored the importance of MAB and its biosphere  reserves in conserving biodiversity, protecting ecosystems, promoting the sustainable development of local communities,  for research and training and awareness-raising. In her response, ADG/SC thanked Member States for their  overwhelming support of MAB and assured the delegates that their comments would be taken into account when  finalizing the Lima Action Plan for 2016-2025.
12.19 A draft resolution co-authored by France, Germany and Peru and supported by an additional 24 countries was  put forward for debate. The sponsoring countries noted that they wanted to further emphasize the importance of MAB,  notably in the context of the 2030 Agenda. They looked forward to the upcoming World Congress of Biosphere Reserves  to be held in March 2016 in Peru and to the adoption of the Lima Action Plan for 2016-2025. Saint Vincent and the  Grenadines proposed modifications to the text of the draft resolution to recognize different national circumstances in the  implementation of commitments to the MAB Strategy. The Commission decided to recommend adoption of the draft  resolution without the proposed amendments after a number of Member States objected to the amendments and taking  note of the explanation by the Secretariat that different national circumstances were already taken into account in the  MAB Programme’s statutory documents.
12.20 ADG/SC then introduced item 4.7, relating to the statutes of the International Geoscience and Geoparks  Programme (IGGP). She outlined the process through which Member States had been exploring how to formalize the  link between the Global Geoparks and UNESCO, including at the 37th session of the General Conference, six Executive
339  Board sessions and seven meetings of the working group established by the Director-General. She noted that IGGP was  a demonstration of UNESCO’s ability to innovate and that IGGP provided the opportunity to bring the research profile of  the International Geoscience Programme (IGCP) together with the outreach and educational strengths of Global  Geoparks. The proposal would bring geodiversity to centre stage in UNESCO. She highlighted that geodiversity  underlined almost all aspects of society, shaping not only biodiversity but also our cultural and intangible heritages.
12.21 Thirty-two Member States and three observers (the Global Geoparks Network, the International Union of  Geological Sciences and the International Union for the Conservation of Nature) took the floor on item 4.7. Delegates  strongly supported the formalization of Global Geoparks as UNESCO Global Geoparks. Member States highlighted that  Global Geoparks illustrated how UNESCO could work in an intersectoral manner, looking at natural and cultural  resources and promoting the sustainable development of local communities. A number of delegates highlighted how  Global Geoparks would give increased visibility to the geosciences, and underscored the importance of geotourism and  the role of Global Geoparks in addressing geohazards. A few Member States commented on the collaboration between  the different UNESCO designated sites and emphasized the need to build synergies between them. ADG/SC thanked  the Member States for their extraordinary support for IGGP and Global Geoparks and noted that the issue of co-branding  between Global Geoparks and other UNESCO sites would be addressed at the 200th session of the Executive Board.  The draft resolution contained in document 38 C/14 was then approved by acclamation.
12.22 Mr President, this brings me to the conclusion of my oral report. I hope I have succeeded in capturing the  essence of the rich debates and the orientations provided by the Commission for the programmes of the Natural  Sciences Sector. On a personal note, I would like to express my appreciation and gratitude to the UNESCO Secretariat  and Member States. It has been an exhausting but enriching journey for me over the last two weeks. Thank you for your  attention.
13.  The President:   Thank you Madam Chairperson for your presentation. I wish to congratulate you for very effectively chairing the  Commission. Are there any comments on the report so presented? I see Saint Vincent and the Grenadines followed by  Portugal. Saint Vincent and the Grenadines, you have the floor.
14.  Saint Vincent and the Grenadines:   Thank you Mr President. I would like to thank the Chairperson of the Natural Sciences Commission for her  excellent report which reflects all interventions and exchanges of views and the decisions adopted in the Commission  and for the way she chaired the Commission. I just have one comment and one amendment. I think there is something  missing in the French version of the report on page 20 on item 4.15 regarding the MAB Strategy. Page 20 in the French  version, paragraph 2, is not aligned with the English version. In French, the paragraph says “engage les États membres  à faciliter …” and we should replace this with “encourage” as in the English version: “Encourage les États membres à  faciliter …” Et à la troisième ligne, au lieu de “afin de contribuer…” c’est “en vue de contribuer…”. I will explain: it is a  translation of “with a view” because we replaced “with the aim of” by “with a view to” because we do not yet know the  conclusion of COP 21 or COP 22, so we replace “afin de” with “en vue de” to align the French version with the English  version. Thank you.
15.  The President:   Thank you very much, the Secretariat has taken note of that and the necessary amendments will be made  where appropriate. The distinguished representative of Portugal you have the floor.
16.1  Portugal:   Monsieur le Président, le Portugal souhaite tout d’abord, s’associer à tous ceux qui ont déjà exprimé au peuple  et au Gouvernement de la France leurs condoléances et leur profonde solidarité suite aux événements tragiques de  vendredi dernier.   (L’oratrice poursuit en anglais)
16.2 Mr President, please allow me to congratulate Ms Noorul Ainur Binti Mohamed Nur for her excellent chairing of  the Natural Sciences Commission and in particular for the very accurate report that has just been presented to this  plenary. In this regard, we wish to express our thanks to the Chairperson for having conveyed our message and  concerns to the plenary regarding the status, future and image of the Intergovernmental Oceanographic Commission  (IOC) and on IOC’s relationship with UNESCO. We take this opportunity to emphasize the broad support to enhance the  role and capabilities of IOC as an intergovernmental body within UNESCO as key elements to define the future of IOC,  thus responding to the expectations of the Commission expressed by Member States and governing bodies through the  adoption of concrete measures to apply IOC’s status, namely regarding its functional autonomy and as a joint specialized  mechanism in ocean research, services and capacity building of the United Nations system in accordance with  decision IOC-XXVIII/4 of the 28th session of the IOC Assembly. Taking this into consideration, the guidance provided by  the governing bodies of IOC and the debate held in the Natural Sciences Commission as a constructive contribution to  enhancing the relationship between IOC as an intergovernmental body and UNESCO, we encourage the Director- General, in consultation with IOC officers and with the Executive Secretary of IOC, to revise references to IOC’s role and  image in UNESCO documents, including draft document 39 C/5, clarifying the Commission’s governance structures and  the practice of its functional autonomy. Mr President, in our view, these are fundamental steps to realizing the potential of  the Intergovernmental Oceanographic Commission, namely by promoting the mandate and work of the IOC and related  capabilities in fostering a common national approach in intergovernmental fora, now reinforced by a standalone  development goal for oceans adopted by the United Nations General Assembly. Thank you very much, Mr President.
17.  The President:   Thank you very much. Indeed we have taken note, but I also need to indicate that draft document 39 C/5 will be  subject to discussions in the joint meeting of the programme commissions scheduled for tomorrow. I see the  distinguished representative of the Islamic Republic of Iran wishes to take the floor.
18.  Islamic Republic of Iran:   Thank you, Mr President. I would like to thank the Chairperson of the Natural Sciences Commission. I have a  comment on page 4, concerning the draft resolution not retained in paragraph 14. As far as I understand, we have two  draft resolutions, DR.8 and DR.9. DR.9 was not retained but DR.8 was retained. In this report, neither of these have  been retained. Please check whether it is correct or not. Thank you very much.
19. The President:   Thank you very much. I think I would rather invite the Chairperson of the Natural Sciences Commission to  intervene on that. Madam, you have the floor.
20. Ms Nur (Malaysia) (Chairperson of the Natural Sciences Commission):   Thank you Mr President. With regards to that, both are not retained. That was the decision made during the  meeting, the last one that we had. Thank you.
21.1  The President:   Thank you very much, I think that clarifies the consensus that was reached during the Commission’s  deliberations and I believe we can leave it like that. Thank you very much Excellencies, I do not see any further  interventions. May I then consider that the General Conference takes note of the report of the Natural Sciences  Commission and hereby adopts the draft resolutions proposed in document 38 C/92, subject to the decisions that the  Conference may take when adopting the Appropriation Resolution for 2015-2016? I thank you very much. It is so  decided.
21.2 Excellencies, before I invite the Chairperson of the Communication and Information Commission to present the  report, I do have the pleasure to recognize the presence of the Minister for Foreign Affairs of Libya, His Excellency Mr  Mohammed al-Dairi who has joined us this morning. Your Excellency, welcome and we appreciate your presence here  today.   Report of the Communication and Information Commission (CI) (38 C/95)  Rapport de la Commission Communication et information (CI) (38 C/95)  Informe de la Comisión de Comunicación e Información (CI) (38 C/95)  Доклад Комиссии по коммуникации и информации (CI) (38 C/95)   )٩٥م/٣٨ج )CI(تقرير لجنة االتصال والمعلومات  传播和信息委员会（CI）的报告（38 C/95）
22. The President:   Honourable Colleagues, we will now examine the report of the Communication and Information Commission and  I am pleased to give the floor to His Excellency, Mr Abdulla El Reyes, who will introduce the report of the Commission.  The report is contained in document 38 C/95. Your Excellency, you now have the floor, Sir.
(23.2) (traduit de l'arabe) : Monsieur le Président de la Conférence générale, Monsieur le Président du Conseil exécutif,  Madame la Directrice générale, Excellences, chers délégués, Mesdames et Messieurs, en tant que Président de la  Commission CI (communication et information) et Président du Comité consultatif international du Programme Mémoire du  monde, je joins ma voix à celle des autres orateurs pour condamner les actes criminels, effroyables et d’une brutalité sauvage  commis le 13 novembre à Paris. Nous continuons de prier pour les âmes des personnes qui ont perdu la vie suite aux lâches  attentats commis le soir du 13 novembre, présentons nos plus sincères condoléances à leurs proches, et prions pour le  rétablissement de tous les blessés. Nous tenons à exprimer notre ferme opposition aux forces du mal et restons déterminés à  atteindre l’objectif de l’UNESCO, à savoir « élever les défenses de la paix dans l’esprit des hommes et des femmes » par  l’éducation, les sciences, la culture, la communication et l’information. Nous tenons également à exprimer aux admirables  habitants de Paris, qui abrite le Siège de l’Organisation, notre plein appui et toute notre sympathie alors qu’ils sortent à peine  du choc provoqué par ces actes effroyables, que nous dénonçons et condamnons avec la plus grande fermeté, et soulignons
341  que la communauté internationale tout entière œuvre pour éviter que de tels actes ne se reproduisent.  (L’orateur poursuit en anglais)
23.3 I am honoured to present this oral report on behalf of the Communication and Information Commission, which  examined nine agenda items in a series of eight debates on 10 and 11 November 2015. My name is Mr Abdulla El Reyes  from the United Arab Emirates. I chaired the Commission, the Vice-Chairpersons of the Bureau including Her Excellency  Ms Cristina Rodríguez Galán (Andorra), Mr Andrejs Vasilevs (Latvia), Ms Leticia Casati (Paraguay) and Ms Wang  Hongmin (China). Mr Riche-Mike Wellington (Ghana) was the Rapporteur.
23.4 In my opening remarks to the Commission, I recalled the words of UNESCO’s Constitution, which stress the  development and use of the free exchange of ideas and knowledge for the purposes of mutual understanding. Seventy  years ago, in the aftermath of World War Two, those words were bold, innovative and foreseeing. Allow me to remark  that, after the terrible attacks against the people of Paris last week, this reminder of our highest goals resonates with  particular strength in my heart. Our mission to build peace through the means of dialogue, communication and  information, is a fragile and ongoing effort. It is essential work for humankind in the present and in the future. This is the  meaning of the work that UNESCO carries through on a daily basis.
23.5 This brings me back to the CI Commission, where my introductory address was followed by Deputy Director- General, Mr Getachew Engida, who presented highlights of the CI’s biennial achievements. He then introduced the  Director-General’s report on the implementation of the Information for All Programme (IFAP), followed by the  presentation of the activity report of the Intergovernmental Council for the Information for All Programme by its  Chairperson, Ms Chafica Haddad. She stressed that the Programme had been recognized for its groundbreaking work  under its six strategic priorities. Following the introduction of the biennial activity report of the International Programme  for the Development of Communication (IPDC) by the Deputy Director-General, the Chairperson of its Intergovernmental  Council, Ms Albana Shala, presented the biennial report of the Council’s activities. Ms Shala also informed the  Commission of the new priorities of the programme, particularly countering hate speech, promoting conflict-sensitive  reporting, and cross-cultural, cross-religious dialogue. Finally, she urged Member States to continue supporting IPDC  with extrabudgetary contributions. Mr President, against the background of this introduction, please allow me to  summarize the key points emerging from the debates of the Commission.
23.6 The CI Commission dedicated its first debate to the preparation of the Draft Programme and Budget for 2018-
2021, document 39 C/5, as well as to the consideration of the conclusions of the ninth UNESCO Youth Forum. In his  introductory remarks, the representative of the Director-General, the Deputy Director-General, presented selected  achievements as foundations for the CI Sector’s future work. He underlined the impact of UNESCO’s intersectoral work  on the World Summit on the Information Society (WSIS), and stressed the increasing importance that freedom of  expression is taking on as a human right both online and offline. The United Nations Plan of Action on the Safety of  Journalists and the Issue of Impunity, the development of open access activities in Member States, as well as  UNESCO’s promotion of multilingualism and universal access to cyberspace are also key pillars. The Deputy Director- General also emphasized UNESCO’s key role in the work on information and communication technology (ICT) for  persons with disabilities, and how the global priorities, gender equality and Africa, continued to be foundations for future  activities. Quoting the knowledge societies and other CI references in the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development,  the Deputy Director-General also emphasized the Sector’s role in contributing to the achievement of the Sustainable  Development Goals (SDGs).
23.7  The representative from the Bureau of Strategic Planning (BSP) informed Member States on the consultative  process concerning the preparation of the future Programme and Budget for 2018-2021 (39 C/5), which would lead to its  adoption at the 39th session of the General Conference in 2017. Two youth representatives presented the Commission  with recommendations issued by the ninth UNESCO Youth Forum, including the creation of a toolkit on global citizenship  education to ensure the universal enjoyment of human rights, the setting up of youth foresight forums and the  establishment of a global environment youth organization fostering learning through a virtual university. While those  recommendations were not part of document 39 C/5, a number of Member States voiced their support to youth initiatives  during the ensuing debate for their implementation at country-level.
23.8 In their comments, Member States stressed the importance and quality of the work carried out by the Sector and  the related Memory of the World Programme (MWP), Information for All Programme (IFAP) and International Programme  for the Development of Communication (IPDC). They agreed that UNESCO was uniquely positioned to contribute to the
2030 Agenda. Many Member States voiced concerns about the budget allocation to Major Programme V. The need for  additional financial resources and prioritization of activities along UNESCO’s comparative advantages was stressed,  emphasizing UNESCO’s normative and conceptual leadership as well as its strong convening power through multi- stakeholder platforms. Member States also expressed their will to see vacant posts staffed as soon as possible, notably  in field offices.
23.9 The universality of human rights, both offline and online, was recalled, as were the principles summarized by the  acronym “ROAM” which underscore that the Internet should be human Rights-based, Open, Accessible to all and  nurtured by Multi-stakeholder participation. Strong emphasis was also placed on the importance of freedom of  expression and press freedom, with specific references made to media pluralism, independence and strengthening  journalists’ skills and capacities. Many raised the importance of continued strengthening of UNESCO’s leadership on the  United Nations Plan of Action on the Safety of Journalists and the Issue of Impunity. Many delegations noted the  challenges of countering hate speech, radicalization and violent extremism. Member States thanked UNESCO for the  work done in that area and encouraged the CI Sector’s future work in that field. In response, the Deputy Director-General  thanked Member States and stressed UNESCO’s responsiveness to developments and its potential for crosscutting
342  implementation of the SDGs.
23.10 The second debate was held on the consideration and adoption of the Draft Budget for 2016-2017 Part II.A:  Major Programme V – Communication and Information. In his introduction, the Deputy Director-General stated that CI  would be operating with a revised expenditure plan, with shortfall from the budget of $10,720,500. Some 55% of the  budget would continue to be allocated to programmatic action in the field. He also stated that the Sector hoped to raise  $16.7 million for extrabudgetary activities during the upcoming biennium.
23.11 Twenty-two Member States took the floor on that item. Throughout the debate, they strongly reaffirmed the  relevance of CI for reaching the Sustainable Development Goals. Member States also stressed the need to promote  gender equality and to empower youth. The promotion of inclusive knowledge societies, where all human rights are  protected online and offline, calls for efforts pertaining to freedom of expression, access to information and knowledge,  privacy and ethics. The importance of inclusion was highlighted, of overcoming digital and knowledge divides, and of  giving access to information and knowledge to all, and particularly to women and girls. Member States also stressed the  importance of the safety of journalists, press freedom and documentary heritage, including in digital form. Media  development, media and information literacy, as well as knowledge sharing, were characterized as indispensable  components for the SDGs. Member States expressed satisfaction with respect to the conference “Youth and the Internet:  Fighting Radicalization and Extremism”.
23.12 The Memory of the World Programme (MWP) was highly commended, notably for its work in Mali. IPDC and  IFAP were considered to fulfil an important role. Member States asked that the CI Sector address the needs of least  developed countries (LDCs), SIDS as well as conflict-affected countries, notably in Africa. Efforts should include and  address vulnerable groups, notably persons with disabilities. Principles of results-based budgeting (RBB) were reaffirmed,  as well as the need for performance indicators.
23.13 In his response, the Deputy Director-General welcomed Member States’ comments. He stressed UNESCO’s  continuous efforts to improve its indicators framework. He recalled that budgetary constraints apply across UNESCO as  a whole, and that the CI Sector sought to manage by innovating. He reaffirmed the strong commitment of UNESCO to  human rights and info-ethics. He also stated that UNESCO would continue to prioritize post-disaster/post-conflict  countries, and developing countries. Internet-related issues would remain high on UNESCO’s agenda. He drew Member  States’ attention to the leading role that UNESCO played in the World Summit on the Information Society (WSIS), which  would be reviewed at the United Nations General Assembly in December 2015. The Commission recommended for  adoption by the General Conference the relevant paragraph of document 38 C/5 as amended by document 38 C/6 and  its addenda, as well as by draft resolution 38 C/DR.4 and document 38 C/8. The draft resolution added a welcome  reference to inclusive and pluralistic knowledge societies.
23.14 The third debate was on the outcome document of the “CONNECTing the Dots: Options for Future Action”  conference. The Deputy Director-General recalled that the General Conference, through 37 C/Resolution 52, had  requested the Secretariat to undertake a comprehensive study on Internet-related issues in the mandate of UNESCO.  The study had to be based on global multi-stakeholder consultations in the four areas of access to knowledge and  information, freedom of expression, privacy, and the ethical dimensions of the information society.
23.15 The Deputy Director-General informed delegates that the final version of the study, entitled “Keystones to foster  inclusive Knowledge Societies” was available. He added that information was also included in the “Report by the  Director-General on the implementation of the World Summit on the Information Society (WSIS) outcomes” (38 C/INF. 4).  He remarked that the 18-month multi-stakeholder consultation process for the study had culminated at the CONNECTing  the Dots Conference in March 2015. The outcome document of that major event contained 38 options for future action by  UNESCO that were reflected in the study.
23.16 Thirty-four Member States took the floor on the item, congratulating the Secretariat for the exemplary  consultation process and the organization of the CONNECTing the Dots conference. One Member State stated that one  had “rarely seen so much done with so little”. The conference and its outcome document were described as a model for  multi-stakeholder processes. This demonstrated UNESCO’s capacity to convene a wide range of actors under its aegis  and to find a common ground on very complex issues. UNESCO’s present and future work was stressed as timely.  Member States noted that the Internet could be used to address sustainable development in the context of the 2030  Agenda, to promote human rights, gender equality and inclusion of persons with disabilities. The need for capacity  building was also noted with respect to countries and stakeholders lacking resources, including in Africa and small island  developing States (SIDS).
23.17 Endorsing the study and outcome document was also an important contribution to the WSIS review process,  said several Member States, which also welcomed the study’s relevance for their own ongoing work on Internet-related  policies and enabling frameworks. Member States further endorsed the concept of Internet universality and its underlying  ROAM principles, emphasizing their equal value and indivisible nature. A wish was expressed for that concept and  others to be further developed and in an intersectoral manner, which should, for one Member State, include the World  Commission on the Ethics of Scientific Knowledge and Technology (COMEST).
23.18 In his response, the Deputy Director-General said he was encouraged that some Member States were already  using the Internet universality principles in their national policy development. He also expressed his thanks to Indonesia  for offering to host World Press Freedom Day in Jakarta in 2017. He stated that UNESCO would bring a significant  contribution to the United Nations General Assembly WSIS+10 Review at the high-level event in December 2015. Finally  he encouraged delegates to talk to their counterparts in New York to help them understand UNESCO’s role on Internet- related issues and how that related to WSIS and the 2030 Agenda. The Commission recommended by consensus that
343  the General Conference adopt the draft resolution contained in paragraph 11 of document 38 C/53.
23.19 The fourth debate on the proclamation of 28 September as “International Day for Universal Access to  Information” was introduced by Morocco, which stated that the international day would enhance the promotion of access  to information, notably in developing countries, through public debates and exchanges of good practices, with a focus on  gender equality. The representative of the Director-General welcomed the proposal’s alignment with UNESCO’s efforts.  He also stressed its resonance with SDG target 16.10 “Ensure public access to information and protect fundamental  freedoms”. He signalled the imperative to mobilize extrabudgetary resources for an impactful implementation.
23.20 Seventeen Member States took the floor during the debate to express support. One country questioned the  need for the international day, but expressed support for the overall objective. Speakers said the initiative would create  new dynamics, and enhance visibility on information-related issues at all levels. It would benefit remote communities, in  particular in Africa and developing economies. The new international day would reinforce human rights, democratic  governance, transparency and accountability. It would also enable participation of civil society, information to the public,  all forms of journalism, science and research, and bottom-up innovation. The representative of the Director-General  recalled that access to information drew attention specifically to the right to seek and receive information, which  complemented the right to impart information. He assured delegates that the Secretariat would collaborate with Member  States on that observance. The Commission recommended by consensus that the General Conference adopt the draft  resolution contained in paragraph 2 of document 38 C/70.
23.21 I turn now to the fifth debate of our Commission held on the “Draft Recommendation concerning the  Preservation of, and Access to Documentary Heritage, including in Digital Form”. The representative of the Director- General outlined the multi-stakeholder consultation process, which led to the instrument, intended to harmonize policies  and strategies for documentary heritage. It would also help strengthen international cooperation and raise public  awareness.
23.22 Forty-one Member States took the floor. All commended the Sector for its work on the multi-stakeholder process  resulting in a balanced instrument. Some affirmed that the instrument also pertained to issues such as respect for  cultural diversity and privacy. Member States considered promoting documentary heritage crucial in the current age of  communication and information. They hoped that the recommendation would eventually be afforded an equal footing with  other heritage-related UNESCO instruments. Diverging views existed between those Member States wishing to work  towards a convention and those holding that a recommendation was the best suited instrument.
23.23 The recommendation would support national policies as well as regional and international cooperation. It would  serve professionals and academics and help raise awareness of the general public of both present and future  generations. Members States recognised such threats to documentary heritage as negligence, technological  obsolescence and commoditization, natural disasters, conflicts and targeted attacks. Several Member States noted that  digital heritage came with new challenges, but reaffirmed that traditional forms of documentary heritage should remain  high on the agenda. They called for deeper research on the synergy between physical and digital documentary heritage.  The recommendation would raise the profile of the Memory of the World Programme as well as of documentary heritage  at the national level and even at the level of families and individuals. Concerns were expressed as to monitoring  mechanisms, capacity building, and funding, since it was insufficient to rely solely on extrabudgetary resources. Those  were important issues for developing countries in particular. Germany agreed to the proposed recommendation on the  understanding that the other 10 States Parties to the “Agreement on the International Tracing Service” had not  expressed any reservations against its adoption.
23.24 In his response, the representative of the Director-General thanked Poland for sparking a rich consultative  process. Funding concerns could be addressed since the preservation of documentary heritage was built into the regular  programme. He added that a costed plan and guidelines were under preparation as well as guidelines to share best  practices.
23.25 Finally, the Commission recommended by consensus that the General Conference adopt the draft resolution  contained in paragraph 10 of document 38 C/24 with the integration in the appendix of references to the 2007 United  Nations Declaration on the Rights of Indigenous Peoples, and the 1993 Mataatua Declaration on Cultural and Intellectual  Property Rights of Indigenous Peoples.
23.26 Debate number six was held on the “Third consolidated report on implementation by Member States of the 2003  Recommendation concerning the Promotion and Use of Multilingualism and Universal Access to Cyberspace”. The  representative of the Director-General introduced the item, noting that only 22 Member States had submitted the  statutory report. He announced that a summary report prepared by the Secretariat would soon be available. He added  that the Sector had taken the responsibility upon itself to revise UNESCO’s “Atlas of the World’s Languages in Danger”  and scale it up to include all the worlds’ languages.
23.27 Twelve Member States participated in the debate. They expressed gratitude to UNESCO for its work and  provided information on their national experience. The 2003 Recommendation continued to trigger policy planning and  action to promote diversity, indigenous cultures, inclusive learning and media pluralism. It did so also for access to open  data and various governmental services. One Member State affirmed that multilingual systems and technologies should  be developed. Member States regretted that only 22 reports had been submitted. Member States proposed to review and  strengthen the monitoring mechanism of the Recommendation. One Member State suggested the creation of a  collaborative observatory and portal for Member States and others, including the UNESCO Institute of Statistics, to  publish relevant data.
23.28 In his response, the Deputy Director-General contrasted the importance of addressing multilingualism in
344  cyberspace with the extremely limited resources available. In concluding, he invited Member States to consult the  publication on a decade of promoting multilingualism in cyberspace. The Commission recommended by consensus that  the General Conference adopt the draft resolution contained in paragraph 4 of document 38 C/LEG/3.
23.29 Let me now briefly summarize the seventh debate on the establishment in Kuwait City, Kuwait, of a global centre  for excellence for the empowerment of persons with disabilities through information and communication technologies.  Kuwait introduced item 4.4 and affirmed its will to work closely with UNESCO to ensure fruitful work. The Deputy  Director-General presented the feasibility report for the centre. The Commission recommended by consensus to the  General Conference to adopt the draft resolution contained in paragraph 3 of document 38 C/18 Part XXII.
23.30 The eighth and final debate of the CI Commission was on the “New Delhi Declaration on Inclusive ICTs for  Persons with Disabilities: Making Empowerment a Reality”. The Declaration stemmed from the first international  conference on the role of information and communication technologies (ICTs) for persons with disabilities attended by 80  countries in New Delhi in November 2014, in collaboration with the Government of India and with the support of Kuwait.  While it was an item to be examined without debate, the Chair decided to grant the request of Member States asking for  the floor to endorse the Declaration and commend the commitment of the Secretariat and the Government of India.  Delegates recognized that the Declaration aimed at enhancing the accessibility of ICTs for persons with disabilities. ICTs  could help change the lives of millions by facilitating participation in employment, education and more. Inclusion, it was  highlighted, was not a burden but an asset.
23.31 In his response, the Deputy Director-General thanked Member States for their supportive comments. He  recalled that more than one billion people lived with disabilities and that they often suffered from discrimination and social  exclusion resulting in higher exposure to poverty. He stated that accessibility aspects should be included in every  development phase. Persons with disabilities should be consulted and involved in the development of ICT applications  and services. After the projection of a video message from Professor Stephen Hawking, he invited delegates to join an  event in UNESCO with Professor Hawking on 3 December 2015. Finally, the Commission recommended by consensus  that the General Conference endorse the New Delhi Declaration and adopt the proposed draft resolution contained in  paragraph 12 of document 38 C/48.
23.32 Mr President, in conclusion, I would like to say that this was a particularly successful CI Commission. Once  adopted by the General Conference, we will have a new recommendation concerning the Memory of the World  Programme, a new category 2 centre and a declaration on ICTs for persons with disabilities, a new International Day for  Universal Access to Information and a new framework for UNESCO’s future Internet-related action, endorsed by Member  States. The Secretariat will enter the next biennium with a set of new tools and with very strong support expressed by  Member States for the CI Sector’s innovative and forward-looking work. In this positive spirit, I close my report on the CI  Commission and take the opportunity to thank the Rapporteur for his commitment and dedication. Thank you,  Mr President, thank you all.
24.  The President:   Thank you very much, Your Excellency, for having presented such a clear and yet comprehensive report. I wish  to thank all members of the Commission for their work. Dear colleagues, are there any comments on document 38 C/95?  Grenada, do you wish to take the floor? You now have the floor.
25.  Grenada:   Thank you, Mr President, for giving me the floor. I would like to start by expressing, on behalf of the delegation  of Grenada, our sincere condolences to the people of France for the victims of last Friday’s attacks and to express our  sympathy and solidarity to their friends and families. Mr President, I would like to commend the Chairperson of the CI  Commission, Mr Abdulla El Reyes, from the United Arab Emirates, for his wise chairship and for the comprehensive  report he has presented to the plenary of the General Conference. The report has indeed reflected the intense debate  that took place during the Commission relating to the important topics discussed. It also stressed the relevance of  communication and information, including freedom of expression, universal access to information and fighting violence  and extremism in cyberspace, for building peace and inclusive knowledge societies for sustainable development. I would  also like to commend the Secretariat for the good preparation of the work of this successful CI Commission as well as  the Rapporteur for his contribution to the preparation of the report submitted to us. Finally, Mr President, I take this  opportunity to commend your wise chairship of this General Conference. I thank you.
26.  The President:   Thank you very much Madam. Since I do not see any delegates wishing to take the floor, may I then assume  that the General Conference takes note of the report of the CI Commission contained in document 38 C/95 and adopts  the draft resolution also contained therein subject to the decision that the Conference may take on budgetary issues  when adopting the Appropriation Resolution for the next biennium? I do not see any objections. It is so decided.
27.  The President:   Ladies and gentlemen, it is now time to examine the report of the SHS Commission contained in document
38 C/93. I am pleased to give the floor to Ms Hadidja Alim Youssouf who successfully chaired this Commission. Madam,  you now have the floor.
28.1 Mme Youssouf (Cameroun) (Présidente de la Commission SHS) :   Merci beaucoup, Monsieur le Président. Monsieur le Président de la Conférence générale, Monsieur le  Président du Conseil exécutif, Madame la Directrice générale de l’UNESCO, Excellences, Mesdames et Messieurs, c’est  un honneur pour moi de vous présenter les points saillants des discussions de la Commission des sciences sociales et  humaines. Nos travaux très fructueux se sont déroulés du 10 au 12 novembre 2015, en quatre séances, et ont porté sur  l’examen de huit points inscrits à l’ordre du jour.
28.2 Avant de vous en livrer la teneur, permettez-moi, Monsieur le Président de la Conférence générale, Monsieur le  Président du Conseil exécutif, Madame la Directrice générale, Excellences, Mesdames et Messieurs, d’exprimer, au nom  des membres de la Commission et en mon nom propre, toute notre compassion au peuple français si durement frappé  par des attaques terroristes d’une très grande violence. Nous formons le vœu d’ un repos éternel pour toutes les  personnes décédées et d’une prompte guérison pour les nombreux blessés. Nous prions Dieu le Tout Puissant  d’accorder force, courage et ressources nécessaires au peuple de France et à toutes les familles des victimes pour  surmonter cette dure épreuve.
28.3 Je voudrais ensuite dire que ce fut un honneur mais aussi un réel plaisir pour tous les membres de la  Commission SHS et pour moi-même de prendre part aux travaux de la 38e session de la Conférence générale et de  siéger au sein de la Commission SHS. Je suis profondément reconnaissante du choix porté sur mon pays, le Cameroun,  pour présider la Commission SHS et, de ce fait, représenter l’Afrique.
28.4 Excellences, Mesdames et Messieurs, dans mon allocution d’ouverture, j’ai invité notre Commission, en ce  moment si symbolique où nous célébrons le 70e anniversaire de l’UNESCO et qui est marqué par l’adoption de l’Agenda
2030, à repositionner les sciences sociales et humaines à l’avant-garde de la réflexion sur les crises multiples et les  transformations rapides de nos sociétés. J’ai tout particulièrement mis en exergue la dimension sociale et éthique du  développement durable, et l'importance de la promotion du dialogue interculturel et de l'engagement actif des jeunes.  J'ai également souligné la nécessité d’une approche innovante et intersectorielle pour une meilleure intégration des  priorités globales Égalité des genres et Afrique dans les différentes initiatives.
28.5 La Commission SHS a pris note de la Déclaration conjointe des présidents des cinq programmes scientifiques  intergouvernementaux et internationaux et de la Commission océanographique intergouvernementale, présentée par  M. Lubomir Faltan, Vice-Président du Bureau du Conseil intergouvernemental du programme Gestion des  transformations sociales (MOST). Dans cette Déclaration, ils réaffirment leur engagement en faveur d’un renforcement  du rôle des sciences à l’UNESCO et le besoin d’une collaboration encore plus accrue dans le cadre de l’Agenda 2030.
28.6 Par la suite, M. Juan Diego Niño Vargas, de la Colombie, et Mlle Royce Lyssah Malabonga, des Philippines, ont  présenté les Conclusions du 9e Forum des jeunes (Point 4.5). S’exprimant au nom de 500 participants de 159 États  membres, ils ont résumé les principales recommandations liées aux thématiques des sciences sociales et humaines  portant particulièrement sur les droits, les libertés et les responsabilités, et le respect de la diversité et de l’identité. Ils ont  appelé à un rôle plus inclusif de la jeunesse dans le processus de prise de décision et dans la mise en œuvre des  recommandations du Forum sur le terrain. Un délégué a proposé que les Conclusions du Forum fassent, à l’avenir,  l’objet d’un débat spécifique à la Conférence générale pour une meilleure prise en compte.
28.7 Permettez-moi à présent d’en venir au Point 3.4 – Préparation du Projet de programme et de budget pour 2018-
2021 (39 C/5). Le représentant du Bureau de la planification stratégique a introduit le document 38 C/7 et a présenté une  feuille de route à cet égard. La représentante de la Directrice générale a exposé la vision et les orientations stratégiques  de son grand programme pour les années à venir, en phase avec la mise en œuvre des Objectifs de développement  durable, et a donné un aperçu général des principales réalisations du Secteur. Elle a souligné les efforts déployés en  vue d'une meilleure adéquation entre les programmes et les priorités nationales, et d’une plus grande coopération entre  les secteurs de programme et avec les partenaires de l’UNESCO. Vingt-huit États membres et un observateur sont  intervenus sur ce point. Les délégués ont tous rappelé l’importance et la pertinence des sciences sociales et humaines,  en particulier dans le cadre de la réalisation de l’Agenda 2030. Ils ont noté la nécessité de répondre aux différents défis,  insistant par exemple sur les questions d'inclusion sociale, de crises migratoires, de discrimination et de montée de la  violence et de l'intolérance. Ils ont appelé à un renforcement et à une revalorisation du grand programme III pour lui  permettre de mieux contribuer à la fonction de laboratoire d’idées de l’UNESCO et de répondre plus efficacement aux  différents enjeux. L’importance du programme MOST a été mentionnée de façon appuyée, et l'élaboration d'une nouvelle  stratégie pour son renforcement saluée avec grand intérêt. Remerciant les délégués pour leurs commentaires positifs et  leur appui au travail de SHS, la représentante de la Directrice générale a réitéré l’importance d’une approche  intersectorielle et multidisciplinaire pour répondre aux nouveaux enjeux et a pris bonne note des orientations formulées
346  visant à renforcer le rôle des sciences sociales et humaines dans le cadre de l’Agenda 2030.
28.8 Excellences, Mesdames et Messieurs. Je me réfère maintenant à nos travaux sur le Point 3.2 – Examen et  adoption du projet de budget pour 2016-2017 (38 C/5). Dans son introduction, la représentante de la Directrice générale  a porté à la connaissance de la Commission les ajustements à l’allocation budgétaire faits au titre du grand  programme III qui reflètent le renforcement des capacités du secteur dans le domaine du dialogue interculturel, ainsi que  de ses activités opérationnelles sur le terrain, et notamment en Afrique. Vingt-deux États membres et une ONG ont pris  la parole. Ils ont accueilli favorablement les orientations du 38 C/5 et le réalignement stratégique du programme des  Sciences sociales et humaines, saluant son approche plus concentrée et ciblée. Tout en réitérant la pertinence du  mandat du secteur, notamment dans le contexte actuel marqué par des transformations sociales, nombre d’États ont  regretté les limitations budgétaires de ce grand programme et ont appelé à son renforcement. Référence a ainsi été faite  au programme MOST ainsi qu’au travail du secteur en matière de dialogue interculturel, de lutte contre les  discriminations, d'éthique des sciences et des technologies et de bioéthique, ainsi que de sport, en particulier avec la  Convention internationale contre le dopage. L'engagement de l'UNESCO en faveur d’une participation plus active des  jeunes au développement durable et à la paix a été salué, de même que la nécessité d’une implication accrue des  femmes à tous les aspects de la vie publique. Les intervenants se sont félicité des efforts conjoints et efficaces des  organes consultatifs de l’UNESCO pour la valorisation du rôle intellectuel et éthique de l’Organisation. Ils ont également  rappelé l’importance de la dimension prospective à cet égard. Ils ont, par ailleurs, réaffirmé leur attachement aux  thématiques phares du secteur et ce, notamment, dans le processus de mise en œuvre des Objectifs de développement  durable. Une meilleure coordination des actions entre les grands programmes III et II a été encouragée, eu égard à leur  complémentarité pour aborder de manière plus efficace les questions liées au changement climatique, pour ne citer  qu’un exemple.
28.9 En réponse à ces interventions, la représentante de la Directrice générale a remercié les États membres pour  leur engagement constant. Elle a souligné l’importance de l’articulation des travaux normatifs et programmatiques  concrets visant à assurer un impact stratégique. Elle s'est référée aux différentes initiatives du secteur dans ce domaine  et a appuyé la nécessité d'élaborer des indicateurs qualitatifs, notamment pour ce qui est du dialogue interculturel. Elle a  informé les délégués qu'une feuille de route pour la Décennie internationale du rapprochement des cultures était en  cours d’élaboration et offrirait un cadre de réflexion propice. Elle a également fait part des initiatives menées dans le  domaine des droits humains, notamment dans la lutte contre les discriminations pour contribuer au processus  d’élaboration d’un Nouvel agenda urbain.
28.10 Excellences, Mesdames et Messieurs, notre Commission a examiné deux projets de résolution au Projet de  budget pour 2016-2017 (38 C/5), présentés respectivement par la République islamique d’Iran et par la Chine. La Sous- Directrice générale pour les sciences sociales et humaines (ADG/SHS) représentant la Directrice générale a introduit les  observations de cette dernière à ce sujet. Tout en accueillant leur esprit, elle a souligné que les projets présentés étaient  déjà pleinement pris en compte dans les programmes en cours. La Commission n’a donc pas retenu les amendements  proposés. Le représentant de la République islamique d’Iran a appelé à une participation plus active et une formation  plus adaptée des jeunes au sein de l’UNESCO. Le représentant de la Chine a réitéré l'importance que son pays accorde  à la promotion de la diversité et du dialogue interculturel pour lutter contre le racisme et l'extrémisme, et sa détermination  à contribuer à la mise en place d’initiatives dans ce domaine, notamment dans la région de l’Asie-Pacifique. Mention a  été faite à cet égard de la Décennie internationale du rapprochement des cultures qui offre déjà une plate-forme  adéquate de coopération et à laquelle les États ont été invités à contribuer.
28.11 La Commission a recommandé à la Conférence générale d’adopter la résolution figurant au paragraphe 03000  du Volume 1 du document 38 C/5 concernant le grand programme III – Sciences sociales et humaines, telle qu’amendée  par les recommandations du Conseil exécutif figurant dans le document 38 C/6 et Addenda. La Commission SHS a, par  la suite, pris note des rapports du Comité international de bioéthique et du Comité intergouvernemental de bioéthique, du  programme MOST, du Comité intergouvernemental pour l’éducation physique et le sport et de la Commission mondiale  d’éthique des connaissances scientifiques et des technologies.
28.12 Excellences, Mesdames et Messieurs. Dans son introduction au Point 4.9 relatif à la Révision de la Charte  internationale de l’éducation physique et du sport, la représentante de la Directrice générale a souligné que la Charte  révisée pouvait être considérée comme une feuille de route visant à intégrer le sport, l’éducation physique et l’activité  physique dans l’Agenda 2030. Elle a ajouté que la révision reflétait la complexité accrue des politiques sportives, ainsi  que les avancées scientifiques accumulées au cours des dernières décennies. Enfin, elle a rappelé que la promotion et  l’impact de la Charte révisée dépendraient de l’engagement continu des États membres et des partenaires de l’UNESCO.  Vingt États membres ont pris la parole pendant ce débat. Dans leurs interventions, ils ont largement soutenu l’adoption  de la Charte révisée et ont félicité l'UNESCO et ses différents partenaires pour le travail accompli. Un grand nombre  d’intervenants ont insisté sur les bénéfices individuels et sociaux du sport et de l’éducation physique en matière d’égalité  des genres, de santé, d’inclusion sociale et de recherche, et de dialogue interculturel. Le rôle important de la Charte, en  tant que référence et outil de plaidoyer, a été mentionné, et certains délégués ont confirmé leur engagement à  promouvoir la Charte et sa mise en œuvre au niveau international. La Commission a recommandé à la Conférence  générale d’adopter la résolution telle qu’amendée. Un État membre a souhaité s’exprimer à cet égard pour rappeler le  caractère non contraignant de la Charte.
28.13 S’agissant du Point 4.12 concernant la Proclamation d’une Journée internationale du sport universitaire,  examiné sans débat, la Commission a recommandé à la Conférence générale d’adopter la résolution y afférente sans  amendement. Le rôle crucial que jouent les universités dans la promotion de l’activité physique et des valeurs  individuelles et sociales du sport a été souligné, ainsi que la contribution du sport au dialogue et à la solidarité entre les  cultures.
28.14 Le Point 7.1, relatif au Rapport d’étape sur les mesures prises en vue de la révision de la Recommandation de
1974 concernant la condition des chercheurs scientifiques, a été introduit par la représentante de la Directrice générale  qui a rappelé les mesures prises par le Secteur SHS en coopération avec le Secteur des sciences exactes et naturelles  en vue de cette révision qui reflèterait ainsi les défis actuels d’ordre éthique, normatif et de gouvernance. Elle a informé  les États Membres que les différentes consultations entreprises auprès des partenaires avaient confirmé l’importance  des enjeux actuels, tels que les défis liés au développement durable, à l’émergence des nouvelles technologies et de  nouveaux domaines de recherche, aux questions de justice globale, d’égalité des genres et de droits humains, entre  autres. Elle a présenté la procédure en cours, tout en appelant à la mobilisation des ressources financières qui  permettraient la tenue de consultations plus approfondies et la convocation d’un Comité spécial. Treize États membres  se sont prononcés sur ce point. Les intervenants se sont félicités des efforts de l’UNESCO pour la révision de la  Recommandation, jugée très opportune. Le statut des chercheurs scientifiques dans la société et l’esprit de liberté et de  vérité scientifiques se verraient valorisés, contribuant ainsi aux « sociétés du savoir » promues par l’UNESCO.  L’importance des notions de « dignité humaine » et de « conflits d’intérêt » a été mentionnée. Nombre d’intervenants ont  réaffirmé la grande importance que leurs pays accordent aux sciences et aux technologies pour le développement et se  sont référés aux différentes actions prises au niveau national. La Commission a recommandé à la Conférence générale  d’adopter la résolution telle qu’amendée.
28.15 Excellences, Mesdames et Messieurs, un débat riche s’est déroulé autour du Point 6.4 intitulé Opportunité  d’établir une déclaration de principes éthiques en rapport avec le changement climatique. La représentante de la  Directrice générale a souligné que le document examiné sous ce point contenait les conclusions des travaux de la  Commission mondiale d'éthique des connaissances scientifiques et des technologies (COMEST) sur un cadre de  principes éthiques en rapport avec le changement climatique qui doivent servir de base technique aux États membres  pour éclairer leurs discussions sur l’opportunité d’établir ou non une déclaration à ce sujet. Les représentants de 32 États  membres et un observateur sont intervenus. Ils ont remercié la COMEST pour son travail et ont exprimé leurs  préoccupations face aux conséquences du changement climatique dans leurs pays et à leur impact sur les populations,  notamment les plus vulnérables. Les délégués ont souligné que les réponses aux défis posés par le changement  climatique devaient être basées sur des principes éthiques solides, et l’accent a été mis sur l’importance du travail déjà  mené par l’UNESCO. Le lien étroit avec les objectifs du programme MOST mais également d’autres programmes de  l’Organisation, à l'instar du programme sur l’Homme et la biosphère (MAB), a été mentionné. Se référant aux travaux en  cours au titre de la Convention-cadre des Nations Unies sur les changements climatiques, certains délégués se sont  exprimés sur les risques de duplication. Une majorité de représentants ont émis une opinion favorable sur l’engagement  de l’UNESCO dans le processus d’élaboration d’une déclaration de principes éthiques en rapport avec le changement  climatique. Ils ont noté, pour la plupart, que l’élaboration d’une telle déclaration devenait non seulement opportune mais  urgente. Des clarifications ont été sollicitées sur la procédure institutionnelle applicable à l’élaboration de déclarations  par l’UNESCO et les implications financières y afférentes.
28.16 Dans sa réponse, la représentante de la Directrice générale a souligné que la CCNUCC constituait le principal  forum pour les négociations liées au changement climatique. Elle a rappelé que toutes les actions des entités des  Nations Unies s’inscrivaient dans ce cadre commun et qu’il n’y avait donc pas de conflits ou de duplication. Ces travaux  sur les nouveaux principes éthiques pouvaient, en fait, constituer une valeur ajoutée de l’UNESCO et étaient très  pertinents pour le travail de l’Organisation en matière de transformations sociales. Elle a ajouté que les principes  éthiques seraient pris en compte dans la Stratégie de l’UNESCO sur le changement climatique en cours d’actualisation.  Elle a rappelé la nécessité de déterminer une feuille de route en ce qui concerne les coûts et le calendrier. Enfin, elle a  réaffirmé, en réponse à certaines préoccupations soulevées, que la déclaration aurait un caractère non contraignant. La  Commission a également bénéficié des éclairages de la conseillère juridique quant à la procédure en vigueur pour  l'élaboration d'une telle déclaration. La représentante de la Grenade a introduit le projet de résolution présenté sur ce  point et la Commission a recommandé à la Conférence générale d’adopter la résolution telle qu’amendée.
28.17 Excellences, Mesdames et Messieurs, le dernier élément à l’ordre du jour de notre Commission était le Point 8.4  relatif au Soutien de l'UNESCO à la mise en œuvre de l'Accord pour la paix et la réconciliation au Mali des 15 mai et
20 juin 2015. Dans son introduction, la représentante de la Directrice générale a rappelé que le soutien de l’UNESCO au  processus de paix et de réconciliation nationale au Mali faisait partie de l’ensemble des actions entreprises par  l’Organisation pour promouvoir une culture de la paix et de la non-violence et répondait, de façon ciblée, à la mise en  œuvre de la stratégie opérationnelle pour la priorité Afrique de l’UNESCO. Elle a également confirmé que l’Organisation  apporterait un appui technique à ce processus, notamment à travers sa participation à l’atelier prévu en décembre 2015  à Bamako, qui constituait une étape préparatoire à un futur Forum national. Elle a signalé qu’à terme, il s’agissait de la  mise en œuvre, au Mali, d’un programme national pour une culture de la paix fondée sur les valeurs locales. Neuf États  membres sont intervenus sur ce point. Ils ont salué l’Accord de paix et de réconciliation au Mali et ont exprimé leur  soutien au processus enclenché, souhaitant un retour rapide de la paix dans le pays et la région. Certains intervenants  ont rappelé que l’UNESCO se replaçait ainsi dans son mandat véritable en accompagnant les États membres dans un  dialogue inclusif pour la réconciliation et la paix. Le rôle central des femmes dans tout processus de paix et de résolution  de conflits a été souligné. La pertinence d’une véritable mobilisation de la communauté internationale et d’expertises  variées pour tirer les leçons de différents processus de paix et de réconciliation à travers le monde a été notée. En  remerciant les États membres pour leur soutien, le délégué du Mali a appelé à davantage de mobilisation et d’appui des  différents partenaires pour parvenir à une paix durable, en insistant sur le besoin d'impliquer la jeunesse. La Commission  a recommandé à la Conférence générale d’adopter la résolution, sans amendement.
28.18 Excellences, Mesdames et Messieurs, les débats ont démontré la pertinence du programme des Sciences  sociales et humaines, notamment face aux conjonctures actuelles, marquées par une augmentation des inégalités, de la  pauvreté, de l’exclusion et des discriminations et par la montée de la violence et de l'intolérance, comme en témoignent
348  les récents évènements tragiques. L’importance du rôle mobilisateur du Secteur dans le renforcement de l’interface entre  recherche, politiques et action pour soutenir les transformations sociales, l’inclusion sociale et le dialogue interculturel a  été pleinement affirmée. Les discussions ont ainsi mis en valeur la contribution essentielle de l’UNESCO dans la  réalisation de l’Agenda 2030 pour le développement durable et au-delà, pour mener à bien la mission qui lui incombe de  bâtir, à travers ses différents programmes en sciences sociales et humaines, la paix dans l'esprit des femmes et des  hommes.
28.19 Monsieur le Président de la Conférence générale, Monsieur le Président du Conseil exécutif, Madame la  Directrice générale, Excellences, Mesdames et Messieurs, je remercie tous les États membres pour leur participation  très active et leur précieuse contribution aux débats. Nous avons travaillé dans un climat de parfaite sérénité et de  franche collaboration. Mes remerciements et mes félicitations s’adressent ensuite à vous, Monsieur le Président de la  Conférence générale, pour le brio avec lequel vous avez conduit les travaux de la Conférence générale et pour votre  accompagnement. Mes remerciements et félicitations vont également au Président du Conseil exécutif pour la très  bonne préparation et l’organisation des travaux de la 38e Conférence générale. Une mention spéciale à la Directrice  générale de l’UNESCO pour toutes les dispositions sécuritaires et matérielles prises pour assurer le déroulement des  travaux de la Conférence générale, la tenue du Forum des dirigeants et la célébration du 70e anniversaire dans les  meilleures conditions. Ce fut un défi au regard du contexte particulier dans lequel se déroulaient les travaux mais,  Madame la Directrice générale, vous avez su le relever. Nous en sommes fiers et vous réaffirmons notre soutien et notre  engagement.
28.20 Avant de conclure, permettez-moi d’exprimer toute ma gratitude aux membres du bureau de la Commission : les  Vice-Présidents, M. Yacine Bellarab (du Maroc), M. Akif Kireçci (de la Turquie), Mme Pamela Mamani (de la Bolivie),  M. Darko Strajn (de la Slovénie), et le Rapporteur, Mme Assel Utegenova (du Kazakhstan). Merci pour votre soutien et  pour votre franche collaboration. Je voudrais ensuite remercier la Secrétaire de la Commission, Mme Maya Makhlouf  Sarrazin et toute son équipe (Kristina Balalovska, Claudia Maresia, Hugue Ngandeu-Ngatta, Linda Tinio-Le Douarin et  Gloria Esther Vernizzi) pour leur travail dévoué et compétent. Mes remerciements vont également à Mme Nada Al- Nashif, Sous-Directrice générale pour les Sciences sociales et humaines, pour sa précieuse collaboration, pour son  accompagnement et pour ses conseils. À la Conseillère juridique et à l’ensemble de l’équipe du Secrétariat de la  Directrice générale, nous disons : « infiniment merci ». Je n’oublierai pas les interprètes, commis de salles, techniciens,  traducteurs, dactylographes, stagiaires, médias et tous ceux qui ont contribué à la réussite de nos travaux. Je vous  remercie pour votre bien aimable attention.
29.  The President:   Thank you very much, Your Excellency, for a very clear and elaborate report. I also wish to thank all the  members of the Commission for their excellent work. Dear colleagues, are there any comments on document 38 C/93?  Saint Vincent and the Grenadines, you have the floor.
30.  Saint Vincent and the Grenadines:   Thank you Mr President, I would like to thank the Chairperson of the SHS Commission for her excellent report  and we do notice all interventions and concerns expressed by the Member States during the discussions. I have just one  amendment to propose on page 7 of the English version, under item 6.4 on the feasibility of preparing a declaration of  ethical principles in relation to climate change. Page 7, paragraph 24, paragraph 1 in the draft resolution, if we could just  move two words at the end of the draft resolution, so that the phrase reading “and to submit the text to it at its 39th  session with funding from the regular budget and, if necessary, from extrabudgetary resources”, has the words “if  necessary” after “regular budget”. I hope this is clear, to bring it in line with the French version. Thank you.
32.  The President:   Thank you very much, I think before I invite the Chairperson of the Commission to take the floor, let me give the  floor to Grenada.
33.  Grenada:   Thank you Mr President. My delegation supports the amendment proposed by Saint Vincent and the Grenadines.  It was the spirit of the discussions and is reflected in the French version. Thank you very much.
34.  The President:   Thank you very much, can I then invite the Chairperson of the Commission to take the floor.
35. Mme Youssouf (Cameroun) (Présidente de la Commission SHS) :   Merci beaucoup, Monsieur le Président. Nous en avions pris bonne note.
36. The President:   Thank you very much. May I then assume that the General Conference takes note of the report of the SHS  Commission contained in document 38 C/93, and adopts the draft resolutions also contained therein, as amended and  subject to the decisions that the General Conference may take on budgetary issues when adopting the Appropriation  Resolution for the next biennium? Japan, you have the floor.
37. Japan:   Thank you your Excellency. I just want to know the reason why  the English text has changed from the one that  we agreed in the discussions, and that we saw on the screen in the Commission meeting. Is it for editorial reasons?
38. The President:   Thank you very much. Let me invite the Chairperson of the Commission to explain. I do not know whether we  are looking at one and the same document. Perhaps we need to check and ensure that we are on the same level of
349  understanding in terms of the documents referred to, otherwise we may have serious difficulties. I invite the Chairperson  of the Commission to take the floor and clarify.
39. Mme Youssouf (Cameroun) (Présidente de la Commission SHS) :   Merci beaucoup, Monsieur le Président, de me redonner la parole. Il convient de signaler que la version  française fait foi. La version anglaise sera alignée sur la version française. Je vous remercie.
40. The President:   Thank you very much Japan. That will be taken care of by the Secretariat, I can assure you. Thank you very  much for having raised the issue. I had almost concluded and I was on the verge of saying that I do not see any  objections, and the intervention by Japan cannot be interpreted as an objection. Can I take it that we agree? It is so  decided. Thank you very much.  Report of the Nominations Committee (38 C/77)  Rapport du Comité des candidatures (38 C/77)  Informe del Comité de Candidaturas (38 C/77)  Доклад Комитета по кандидатурам (38 С/77)  )٧٧م/٣٨جتقرير لجنة الترشيحات    提名委员会的报告（38 C/77）
41. The President:   Your Excellencies, before we break for lunch, we will examine the report of the Nominations Committee, which is  contained in document 38 C/77. The Chairperson of the Committee, His Excellency Mr Michael Worbs will now present  this document. Your Excellency, you have the floor.
42. Mr Worbs (Germany) (Chairperson of the Nominations Committee):   Thank you very much Mr President, distinguished delegates, ladies and gentlemen. The report you have before  you in document 38 C/77 reflects the final proposals of the Nominations Committee concerning the composition of the  Headquarters Committee, Legal Committee and other subsidiary organs of the General Conference, following the results  of the elections held on Thursday, 12 November 2015 in Room IV. Mr President, once the report has been adopted by  the plenary, I shall with your leave, make some comments on the work of this Committee.
43. The President:   May I take it that all of us have read the report being referred to? Are there any comments on the report? If not,  then to conclude please, Mr Worbs, you have the floor.
44.1 Mr Worbs (Germany) (Chairperson of the Nominations Committee):   I assume that the report has been adopted by the plenary without any further comments or objections. Thank  you very much, Mr President. Distinguished delegates, ladies and gentlemen, allow me first of all to thank you for your  open and positive cooperation throughout the General Conference. With your support the Committee has been able to  carry out its task in a transparent and effective manner, namely to organize the election of Members of the Executive  Board for the period 2015-2019 and subsequently to organize and hold the elections of the various subsidiary organs of  the General Conference. The first task of the Committee, which coincided with the first meeting of the General  Conference, consisted in the submission to the General Conference of the list of nominations for the posts of President  of the General Conference, its Vice-Presidents and the Chairpersons of the commissions and committees.
44.2 The Nominations Committee then undertook to complete in the shortest possible time the composition of the  bureaux of the programme commissions, APX Commission and the Nominations Committee itself. That task proved  somewhat difficult and time-consuming as some electoral groups were not yet able to propose their respective  candidates in due time. In particular, the Committee experienced serious difficulties in finalizing the list of Rapporteurs, a  function that seemed no longer to be attractive to a majority of delegates. Despite sending several reminders, I was not  in a position to announce the full composition of each bureau at the first session of each commission. In the end, two  commissions were not provided with Rapporteurs, namely the APX Commission and the Nominations Committee itself.  In my humble opinion, Mr President, the function of the Rapporteur needs to be revisited. I understand that since the last  session of the General Conference, the Rapporteur is no longer given the task of reading the final report of the  commissions for adoption within the commission, as in the past. Perhaps, as suggested by some delegates, we could  simply replace the Rapporteur by a sixth vice-chairperson? It would be more correct and would reflect the actual situation.
44.3 As you will recall, the Committee organized the elections of Members of the Executive Board, under item 51, on  Wednesday, 11 November 2015, for the first ballot and on Friday, 13 November 2015, for the second ballot. The  elections were carried out successfully and in full compliance with the Rules of Procedure of the General Conference. I  am pleased to report that overall we had a high turnout during the election, as 183 out of the 186 Member States entitled  to vote in that election took part in the process. I now turn to the elections of the Headquarters Committee, Legal  Committee and other subsidiary organs of the General Conference, under items 12.2 to 12.15, that were held on  Thursday, 12 November 2015. Among the 186 Member States entitled to vote, 163 took part in those elections. Thanks  to fruitful consultations among the electoral groups and the achievement of clean slates in many of them, only six secret  ballots were held. The elections took place in a harmonious and consensual spirit. The results of those elections were  announced the same day.
44.4 Please recall that following the amendments to the Statutes of the UNESCO International Bureau of Education  (IBE), the Nominations Committee elected six new IBE Council members, one from each regional group whose term of
350  office will expire at the end of the 40th session of the General Conference. I have to mention that, as was the case at the  last session of the General Conference, there was an insufficient number of candidatures for several subsidiary organs.  Those included the Legal Committee, the Headquarters Committee, the Conciliation and Good Offices Commission, the  Intergovernmental Council of the Management of Social Transformations (MOST) Programme, the UNESCO Institute for  Statistics (UIS), and finally, the Executive Committee of the International Campaign for the Establishment of the Nubia  Museum in Aswan and the National Museum of Egyptian Civilization in Cairo.
44.5 Mr President, allow me to thank you personally for your interest and continued support in the work of our  Committee, and the electoral process. I am deeply grateful to my dear colleagues, the Vice-Chairpersons of the  Nominations Committee, for their constant support and assistance, in particular during the elections. They are: Her  Excellency Ms Lorena Sol de Pool (El Salvador), Mr Ram Babu Dhakal (Nepal), and His Excellency, Professor Manda  Kizabi (Democratic Republic of the Congo). I also take this opportunity to express my gratitude to the tellers for the time  and effort they devoted to the electoral process: His Excellency, Mr Abdullah Alneaimi (United Arab Emirates),  Mr Mohammad Nazrul Islam Khan (Bangaldesh), Mr Mohammad Firoz Uddin (Bangladesh), Mr Edouard Huot (Canada),  Ms Annette Regine Ikouebe-Niabandza (Congo), Ms Rosa Ester Moreira De Lemoine (El Salvador), Ms Kourouma  Soukeynatou (Guinea), Mr Victor Altamirano (Peru), Ms Teresa Salado (Portugal) and Ms Zeina Saleh Kayali (Lebanon).  My thanks also go to the interpreters, technical and support staff to the UNESCO Secretariat and particularly to the  Secretariat of the General Conference for its contribution to the Committee’s work. I am also grateful to the temporary  staff of the General Conference who assisted the Committee during the elections. Finally, allow me to express my deep  appreciation to the Secretariat of the Nominations Committee, to Ms Laura Raymondi, Ms Nana Diara Thiam, Ms Hyeon  Ju Kim, Mr Michee Detinho, Mr Alexandre Deganis and the Secretary of the Committee, Mr Firmin Matoko, for their  professionalism, devotion and conscientious dedication to their work. Thank you, Mr President.
45.1 The President:   Thank you very much, Your Excellency, for that report. I forgot to use my gavel in adopting the report by the  Nominations Committee, which I am now doing, since I have the pleasure of using this instrument in my hand. Thank you  very much, the report is now adopted.
45.2 Dear colleagues, we have thus finished our work for this morning. However, given the number of leaders still to  speak, and further given the need to accommodate President Obama’s message, which will be presented by the  Ambassador and Permanent Delegate of the United States of America to UNESCO, the Bureau in its meeting this  morning proposed that the afternoon session should start 30 minutes earlier, that is at 2.30 p.m. As you can see, we are  concluding exactly 30 minutes before the scheduled time. We appeal to you, dear colleagues, as we have a very tight  schedule in the afternoon and we would appreciate it highly if everyone could be here 10 to 15 minutes before 2.30 p.m.  This is the last plea that you shall receive from your President. I will now invite the Secretary to quickly provide us with an  overview of the afternoon’s programme. Mr Secretary, you have the floor.
46.1 Le Secrétaire :   Merci, Monsieur le Président. Effectivement, la séance plénière reprendra à 14 h 30 précises cet après-midi. Il  s’agira du dernier segment du Forum des dirigeants. La Conférence générale aura l’honneur et le plaisir de recevoir  successivement : tout d’abord, la Présidente de Malte, S. E. Mme Marie-Louise Coleiro Preca, suivie du Vice-Premier  Ministre et Ministre des affaires étrangères de la Slovaquie, M. Miroslav Lajčák, qui sera suivi par le Président de  l’Azerbaïdjan, S. E. M. Ilham Aliyev, qui sera ensuite suivi du message du Président des États-Unis d’Amérique,  M. Barack Obama. Ce message sera lu par son S. E. l’Ambassadrice et déléguée permanente des États-Unis auprès de  l’UNESCO. Ensuite, le Président de la République française, M. François Hollande, s’adressera à la Conférence  générale, à partir de 16 heures. Et enfin, à 16 h 30, le Ministre de l’éducation du Bangladesh, S. E. M. Nurul Islam Nahid,  clôturera ce segment du Forum des dirigeants.
46.2 Je termine en rappelant qu’après ce segment, il y aura l’adoption du dernier rapport de commission, le rapport  de la Commission culture. Merci, Monsieur le Président.
47. The President:   Thank you very much Mr Secretary. Excellencies, enjoy your lunch and we will meet before 2.30 p.m. Thank you  very much and see you then. This meeting is now adjourned.  The meeting rose at 12.40 p.m.  La séance est levée à 12 h 40  Se levanta la sesión a las 12.40  Заседание закрывается в 12.40  بعد الظهر ١٢,٤٠رفعت اسلسة يف الساعة    会议于 12 时 40 分结束