1. The President:   Thank you very much. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. I declare open the seventh plenary meeting of the  General Conference, which will be dedicated to the general policy debate. We will briefly suspend the national  statements at around 11.30 a.m. in order to welcome His Excellency the President of Kazakhstan. Before we start our  statements, I wish to inform the delegates that earlier this morning the Bureau of the General Conference held its second  meeting. The Secretary of the General Conference will provide a brief report on this meeting. Mr Secretary, you now  have the floor.  Second report of the Bureau  Deuxième rapport du Bureau  Segundo informe de la Mesa  Второй доклад Президиума    التقرير الثاني لمكتب المؤتمر العام 主席团第二次报告
2. The Secretary:   Thank you Mr President. At its second meeting this morning, the Bureau heard the progress reports of the  Education Commission and APX Commission, as well as those of the Legal Committee, Nominations Committee and  Credentials Committee. The Chairperson of the Legal Committee indicated that the Committee would complete its work  today, and the Chairperson of the APX Commission indicated that the APX Commission was ahead of schedule. The  Chairperson of the APX Commission also reported on the progress of the Working Group of the APX Commission on  item 1.3, concerning the establishment of voting rights for the session. Based upon these reports, the Bureau scheduled  the consideration by the General Conference of item 8.3 concerning the request for the admission of the Republic of  Kosovo to UNESCO, for Monday 9 November at 11.30 a.m. The Bureau also decided to schedule a plenary meeting in  the afternoon of Monday 9 November, to welcome the President of Bolivia and the President of Cabo Verde during their  official visits to UNESCO. This plenary meeting will take place in Room I from 5.30 p.m. to 6.30 p.m. Finally, in view of  the invitation extended by the host country, France, to attend a separate ceremony of commemoration of the end of the  First World War on the morning of Wednesday 11 November, it was decided in agreement with the Chairperson of the  Nominations Committee that the election of Members of the Executive Board would be open for the heads of delegations  to cast their votes from 9 a.m. to 2 p.m. on 11 November. Thank you, Mr President.
3. The President:   Thank you, Mr Rao. May I take it that the General Conference endorses the recommendations made by the  Bureau? I see no objections. It is so decided.  General policy debate (continued)  Débat de politique générale (suite)  Debate de política general (continuación)  Обсуждение вопросов общей политики (продолжение)  جتابع)مناقشة السياسة العامة    总政策辩论（续）
4. The President:   Ladies and gentlemen, we will now proceed with the national statements. Our first speaker this morning is His  Excellency Mr Adkham Ikramov, Deputy Prime Minister of Uzbekistan. Your Excellency, you have the floor.
5.1 Mr Ikramov (Uzbekistan):   Thank you and good morning. Dear Mr President of the General Conference, dear Mr Chair of the Executive  Board, Madam Director-General, distinguished heads of delegations, ladies and gentlemen. Today, as we are marking  the 70th anniversary of our Organization, we are presented with an opportunity to review the results of the past period as  well as the devised action plans regarding UNESCO’s work and increasing its impact and efficiency.
5.2 We are pleased to note that the process of drafting document 38 C/5 was in line with the principle of results- based management and budgeting. In this respect, the identification of the expected outcomes should be based on the  assessment of project effectiveness by the direct beneficiaries. Therefore, the Organization’s Secretariat is entrusted  with the task of boosting partnerships with National Commissions for UNESCO and delegations, with more power to  UNESCO field offices.
5.3 The Medium-Term Strategy for 2014-2021 was approved as a rolling strategy, and it provides for making the  necessary adjustments required to achieve the set goals. Therefore, we consider it important to stress that UNESCO’s  budget for 2016-2017 should be modified accordingly to reflect the considerable contribution the Organization has made  to the implementation of the new internationally agreed initiatives.
5.4 Madam Director-General, we would like to voice our support for your initiative aimed at cutting the administrative  costs and increasing the share of the cost of programme activities, the implication of an interdisciplinary approach in  relation to each project of UNESCO. Within the framework of the regular budget for education programmes, we propose  an increase in budgetary allocations for the main line of action which is in compliance with the strategic objective on the  development of education systems in order to ensure quality education and extend lifelong learning opportunities for all.
163  We believe that in the next two years, UNESCO’s activities should be focused on achieving practical results from the  implementation of the Incheon Declaration – “Education 2030: Towards inclusive and equitable quality education and  lifelong learning for all”, and the Shanghai Consensus in the field of technical and vocational education and training  (TVET), and the Qingdao Declaration on the introduction of information and communication technologies at all levels of  education. In this respect, Uzbekistan is ready to share its achievements in the area of education initiatives such as  introducing multilingual compulsory secondary and vocational education for all on the scheme 9+3, in which Uzbekistan  has more than 18 years’ experience; developing non-formal education opportunities for all in the field of arts, music and  sports; and promoting the ICT-based competencies of teachers.
5.5 Uzbekistan calls for a significant increase in budgetary and extrabudgetary resources for the main lines of action  in natural science, and we advocate the development of science diplomacy, based on the new strategy of the  Programme on Man and the Biosphere (MAB) for 2015-2025 and water diplomacy, which represent the thrust of  UNESCO’s International Hydrological Programme (IHP) to reduce the negative impact on the populations in Central Asia  from the climate change-induced glacial lake outburst floods. Among these, special attention needs to be paid to the  largest ecological catastrophe on a planetary scale in the world: the tragedy of the Aral Sea, which during the life of one  generation came to the verge of extinction. The Aral Sea disaster has affected not only Central Asia, but other regions  too. An extremely unfavourable ecological environment, poor drinking water, and serious diseases – this is a short and  by no means complete list of the consequences of the Aral Sea tragedy. In this regard, it is necessary to increase  UNESCO’s involvement in the development of international research projects in this area.
5.6. Ladies and gentlemen, humanity exists in a single ecosystem and common market – a growing opportunity to  make an impact on people’s lives despite the space and time required for every individual to be responsible. A sense of  belonging is an important component of motivation and responsibility. Therefore, a sense of responsibility for the future of  the planet should be reflected in all programmes of the Organization. Thank you for your attention.
6 The President:   Thank you very much Your Excellency, including for the timing of your presentation. I wish I had chocolates to  give to those who are finishing on time, but I think I will speak to the Secretariat and see whether we cannot award those  chocolates afterwards. Our next speaker is His Excellency Mr Edward Nalbandian, Minister of Foreign Affairs of Armenia.  Your Excellency, you have the floor.
7.1 M. Nalbandian (Arménie) :   Madame la Directrice générale, Monsieur le Président, Mesdames et Messieurs, je félicite M. Stanley Simataa  pour son élection en tant que président de la 38e session de la Conférence générale de l’UNESCO, et j’adresse tous nos  remerciements au Président sortant, M. Hao Ping.
7.2 Monsieur le Président, depuis sa création en 1945, l’UNESCO a accompli un travail remarquable en réunissant  les pays dans leurs efforts en faveur de la promotion de la paix et du développement durable à travers l'éducation, la  science et la culture. Dans le cadre des célébrations du 70e anniversaire, l’Arménie a accueilli la Conférence  internationale sur « Le rôle de la culture dans l’Agenda du développement durable après 2015 », avec la participation  des représentants de plus de 40 pays et organisations internationales. La Déclaration d’Erevan adoptée par la  Conférence condamne la destruction des trésors du patrimoine culturel de l'humanité.
7.3 Malheureusement, aujourd'hui, cette question est devenue plus cruciale que jamais. À cet égard, la situation  actuelle au Moyen-Orient est un sujet de grave préoccupation. La destruction par les terroristes de plusieurs lieux sacrés  et des monuments culturels anciens de Palmyre et de Nimrud, l'explosion de l’église arménienne des Saints-Martyrs à  Deir-ez-Zor qui abritait des restes des victimes du génocide arménien, et d'autres actes barbares, constituent des crimes  contre la civilisation. Ils nous rappellent les crimes semblables perpétrés contre l’héritage culturel de l'humanité – la  destruction des statues monumentales des Bouddhas de Bâmiyân, des mausolées de Tombouctou, des milliers de croix  de pierre arméniennes au Nakhitchevan et d’autres monuments. Ces crimes, qui n’ont pas été réprimés à l’époque, ont  frayé la voie à de nouvelles atrocités. L’histoire nous montre que l'impunité donne naissance à de nouveaux crimes.  (L’orateur poursuit en anglais)
7.4 Mr President, in an era when the protection and promotion of human rights are considered to be the  underpinning concept for the civilized world, intolerance towards the values of civilization belonging to others,  intentionally damaging or destroying cultural or religious heritage, must be condemned with the same resolve and  determination as violence against people. The international community should act in a resolute and timely manner to  protect what is still possible to preserve.
7.5 Mr President, Armenia has continuously drawn the attention of this high body to the appalling situation of the  Armenian cultural heritage in neighbouring Azerbaijan. In the Nakhichevan region alone, thousands of medieval cross- stones, hundreds of Armenian churches, monasteries and other sacred sites have been completely destroyed by  Azerbaijan in an attempt to erase all traces of the people who have inhabited the region for centuries. In its report for
2015, the United Nations Commission on International Religious Freedom made a reference to the vandalized Armenian  cemetery in Nakhichevan and reported that religious freedom in Azerbaijan had further deteriorated, including examples  such as Baku’s only remaining Armenian church being currently used as an archive for the Presidential administration,  and the confiscated Lutheran Church being turned into a concert hall. If we – UNESCO and other international  organizations – do not act today, what would be the future of those and many other endangered monuments tomorrow?
7.6 In sharp contrast to this, neighbouring Iran has made great efforts to preserve and protect the Armenian cultural  heritage. The Armenian Monastic Ensembles of Iran, the oldest of which dates back to the seventh century, were  inscribed on the World Heritage List following submission by the Iranian Government. For our part, Armenia
164  reconstructed the Iranian eighteenth-century Blue Mosque in Yerevan, and is going to submit it for inclusion on the World  Heritage List. Armenia tries to make its own contribution to the efforts aimed at preservation of the world’s cultural  heritage, including through constructive engagement in the relevant bodies of UNESCO.
7.7 Mr President, the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and the UNESCO Convention against Discrimination in  Education stipulate that education shall promote understanding, tolerance and friendship among all nations, racial and  religious groups. Taking into consideration UNESCO’s unique role in the sphere of education, we call upon the  Organization to create within its education programmes an overview mechanism that will examine and evaluate the  textbooks of Member States, especially in history and social sciences, with a special emphasis on the exclusion of  intolerance and xenophobia. Azerbaijan attempts to distort and alter the centuries-old Armenian heritage, culture and  history. In this country, the rewriting of its own history is continued by means of misappropriation or annihilation of the  traces of other cultures on their territory, or even more, by privatizing the cultural heritage of neighbouring nations. A  country that appeared on the political map of the world less than 100 years ago has territorial and cultural claims towards  a country and a people, the several millenniums’ history of which is recorded from ancient times. Armenia is strongly  committed to the ideals and goals of UNESCO and will continue expanding its involvement in UNESCO initiatives and  programmes. Thank you.
(9.1) Mr Al-Malki (Palestine) (translation from the Arabic):    Your Excellency the President of the General Conference, Your Excellency Madam Director-General, Your  Excellency the Chair of the Executive Board, Excellencies, ladies and gentlemen, as we meet today, my homeland and people  are once again exposed to hateful aggression against people and property which does not spare children, old people or  women, an unending aggression carried out by Israel, the occupying power, which is aimed at obliterating the Palestinian  presence on the land of their ancestors. Ever since the nakba “catastrophe” of 1948 through to today, there have been
165  ongoing attempts to wipe out the Palestinian identity by various means, including killing, destruction and displacement. But our  people has proved to the world, time after time, that it is deeply rooted and intends to remain in its homeland for ever, as it has  done for more than 10,000 years. The Israeli occupation continues its systematic, wide-ranging violations of the rights of our  Palestinian people, in particular its right to self-determination and other rights which come under the competence of UNESCO.  The Israeli occupation, despite all the international resolutions and appeals, continues to expand at the expense of the original  landowners by building illegal settlements, providing the settlers with protection, blockading the Gaza Strip, committing crimes  against humanity and crimes which fall within the competence of the International Criminal Court, cutting down trees,  especially Palestinian olive trees which can be as much as 3,000 years old, in addition to the crimes currently being committed  in Hebron by bands of settlers supported by the occupation forces. This is a scene which is repeated in occupied Jerusalem,  at the al-Aqṣà Mosque, in an attempt to divide the blessed al-Ḥaram ash-Sharīf both chronologically and geographically, which  is likely to lead to a situation, which, if maintained, will have disastrous consequences.
(9.2) Palestinian heritage is subject to destruction and systematic appropriation. Israel, the occupying power, has seized  historic, cultural, religious and natural sites, and taken possession of them. It has dug up the old Mughrabi Quarter in the Old  City of Jerusalem, and subjected its cultural heritage to its own laws. It has utilized its judicial system to justify its own illegal  acts. The plunder between 1967 and 1992 has been estimated as consisting of 200,000 archaeological artefacts, and this  plunder has continued to the present. The occupation authorities attempt to deform the history and original historical facts of  the region by pursuing their illegal excavations in Old Jerusalem and other places in occupied Palestine, in order to obliterate  archaeological and heritage monuments of Palestinian and Canaanite identity, which demonstrate the identity of the land since  time immemorial. They are working illegally to impose their own school curricula in East Jerusalem. All these illegal measures  are violations of international humanitarian law, including the 1954 Hague Convention for the Protection of Cultural Property in  the Event of Armed Conflict and its Protocols, and various UNESCO conventions. Flagrant examples of such violations are the  building of the Simon Wiesenthal Center Museum of Tolerance in West Jerusalem on top of the ancient Ma’mūn Allāh  cemetery. Excavation works at the cemetery led to the destruction of hundreds of ancient historical graves, the cemetery  dating back to the seventh century.
(9.3) Mr President, we shall work tirelessly to defend our people and uphold its rights in accordance with international law  by urging all relevant international bodies to carry out the mandate entrusted to them and to shoulder their responsibilities with  respect to the violations being committed by the occupation authorities on Palestinian territory against the Palestinian people.  We have urged the Security Council to assume its responsibility to keep peace and security and to install a regime of  international protection for the Palestinian people. We are working with the Member States in the General Assembly to counter  the illegal occupation policies. We have also appealed to the United Nations Human Rights Council (HRC) to shoulder its  responsibilities to protect the Palestinian people by means of the mechanisms it has adopted, and also to other international  institutions. We are now asking UNESCO and its Member States to give effect to the instruments providing for the work of the  Organization, to provide protection to the land and people of Palestine and to its intellectual and cultural heritage. Palestine is  a land of world heritage, both cultural and natural, of outstanding, exceptional value, which must be preserved and protected. It  is the land of the three celestial religions, and a place where prophets walked. We urge Member States to honour their  commitments by giving effect to the provisions of UNESCO conventions, including its Convention on the Means of Prohibiting  and Preventing the Illicit Import, Export and Transfer of Ownership of Cultural Property, such as the property seized by the  occupation authorities from the territory of the occupied State of Palestine, including those States which agree to display such  stolen heritage in their museums, as has happened in the past with artefacts from the Dead Sea which were stolen by the  occupation authorities in 1967 from the Palestinian Archaeological Museum in Jerusalem. The Organization’s resolutions on  Palestine should also be implemented, and a mission should be sent to investigate the violations of the occupation authorities  against our cultural and heritage assets and property. Above all there should be protection for Palestinians, who are the  custodians of this culture, heritage and history. For behind these stones and relics is a people who is rooted to its land and  longs for freedom and independence. On this basis we reiterate our condemnation of any aggression against heritage sites in  the occupied State of Palestine or anywhere in the world, including heritage sites in the Syrian Arab Republic or Iraq, and all  threats to cultural and heritage property.
(9.4) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the struggle of our Palestinian people for freedom, dignity and the right of return  has been a regular item on the agenda of the United Nations since its inception 70 years ago. The loss of hope, ladies and  gentlemen, is the worst enemy of peace; despair is the strongest ally of extremism. Thank you.
(11.1) Ms Alshaibaniya (Oman) (translation from the Arabic):   Mr President of the General Conference of UNESCO, Mr Chair of the Executive Board, Madam Director-General of  UNESCO, Excellencies heads and members of delegations, ladies and gentlemen, I am pleased to convey to you all sincere  greetings and appreciation, and I am honoured to have this opportunity to transmit to you all the greetings of His Majesty  Sultan Qaboos bin Saeed, the Sultan of Oman, and his sincere prayers for the success of this General Conference. I thank, on  behalf of my country, the Sultanate of Oman’s delegation, Ms Irina Bokova, Director-General of UNESCO, for the role which  she has played to achieve the objectives and noble aims of the Organization. I am also pleased to offer sincere  congratulations to Mr Stanley Mutumba Simataa on his election as President of the General Conference of UNESCO at its
38th session, and to wish him every success in performing his task, in cooperation with the services of the Organization and  the representatives of the Member States.
(11.2) Ladies and gentlemen, Oman would like to share in the celebrations of UNESCO’s 70th anniversary and express its  great appreciation for the role the Organization has played to achieve its strategic objectives, for the quantum leap it has  brought about in developing and enhancing education and the maintenance of the cultural heritage of humankind, in  strengthening the diversity of cultural expressions of humankind, and its role in protecting the environment and ensuring the  sustainability of its resources, and in reducing the risks of natural catastrophes resulting from climate change.
(11.3) Mr President, the year 2015 is the beginning of the transitional stage for the work of the international community  following the United Nations’ adoption of its ambitious 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development, which is to be harmonized  with UNESCO’s message and orientations. With a view to keeping pace with this aspect, Oman is keen to make sustainable  development a mainstay of its development policies in the economic, social and cultural fields by investing in education,  adopting programmes and activities aimed at ensuring that young people acquire the concepts of sustainable development.  The draft national strategy for education 2040 stresses the need to adjust the education streams at the various levels to the  national sustainable development objectives and requirements.
(11.4) Ladies and gentlemen, the conflicts and troubles being witnessed by some of the world’s regions require us to  redouble our efforts to spread the culture of peace, strengthen the value of tolerance and the principles of human rights. While  we commend the concrete steps being taken by UNESCO, we look forward to seeing the Organization pursue its efforts in this  regard, and we stress the importance of cooperation between countries and organizations in order to strengthen the bonds of  love between peoples. Oman, throughout its long history, has promoted tolerance and mutual understanding among peoples  and dialogue between cultures, and has interacted with other nations by means of commercial and cultural communication,  and has continued to do so right up to the present day. An extension of this role has been Oman’s material and moral support  for the UNESCO Silk Road Online Platform project, which UNESCO has adopted as part of its programmes on issues of  dialogue and communication between civilizations. Oman also holds every year a Week of Human Rapprochement and  Harmony and an Oman’s Message of Islam Exhibition, which has been held in more than 60 cities worldwide, and most  recently at UNESCO Headquarters in Paris – these are some of the clear illustrations of Oman’s desire to promote mutual  understanding and religious and cultural harmony and to facilitate communication between cultures.
(11.5) Ladies and gentlemen, despite the advances made by the world in recent times in the field of education, there still  remain numerous challenges which are of great concern to governments and educational institutions. Among them are  enhancing and developing the quality of education and ensuring that education keeps abreast of the latest global  developments and is linked to the labour market in a sustainable world which is based on knowledge. While we express our  satisfaction that the objective of providing good quality and comprehensive education for all within the sustainable  development agenda, we must work together to create a suitable environment for attaining the objectives and goals of  education beyond 2015. On this basis, Oman hosted the Global Education for All Meeting in May 2014 with a view to  assessing the progress achieved in attaining the six EFA goals.
(11.6) Mr President, by holding the United Nations Summit on Sustainable Development in New York, the international  community’s stress on halting climate change and the related natural catastrophes and decline in biodiversity compels us to  exert greater efforts to address the reasons for climate change and to speed up the shift to a greener global economy, in order  to strike the right balance between development and preservation of the environment.
(11.7) Mr President, Excellencies, ladies and gentlemen, the role played by UNESCO in disseminating its message of  peace, justice and freedom in all parts of the world makes it incumbent on us all to safeguard the humanitarian contributions of  this Organization in order to attain a more brilliant future. May God grant us all success and well-being. Peace and the mercy  and blessings of God be upon you.
12. The President:   Thank you very much Your Excellency. Our next speaker is His Excellency Mr Sergey Lavrov, Minister of  Foreign Affairs of the Russian Federation. Your Excellency, you have the floor.
(13.1) Mr Lavrov (Russian Federation) (translation from the Russian):   Distinguished Director-General, esteemed President, ladies and gentlemen. This year, in which we celebrate the
70th anniversary of UNESCO, a leading international organization in the field of humanitarian cooperation, is replete with  dates of meaning to us all. Seventy years ago, the Second World War, the bloodiest and most destructive conflict in the history  of humanity, came to an end. In order to ensure that a tragedy like that could never happen again, the historic decision was  taken to found the United Nations. At that time, the States that been part of the anti-Hitler coalition were able to rise above  their ambitions and differences and reach a compromise in the interests of establishing an international security system which,  as President V.V. Putin has said, would spare the world from major upheaval.
(13.2) Seven decades ago, a creative philosophy of cooperation like that was essential, and it is essential today and should  still be our key aim. In this period of transition, in the midst of an objective process shaping a new multipolar global system,  international relations reflect the geographical, economic and civilizational diversity of today’s world, the originality of peoples  and their natural desire to determine their own fate by themselves. The process is evolving in a complex way, accompanied by  increased instability in global affairs and greater competition in all fields, including models of socio-economic development and  values of reference.
(13.3) In these circumstances it is necessary to accord particular attention to the unacceptable widening of ruptures  between civilizations and religions, and to building a broad universal partnership which is a highly important component of a  positive, future-oriented international agenda.
(13.4) I should like to take up what the Director-General, Irina Bokova, said in her address at the opening of the session,  citing Leo Tolstoy, and state the following. The great Russian writer had an authentic perspective on humanity in deliverance  from violence, lies and hypocrisy, to perfect the moral side of people. It is hard to overstate in this connection the significance  of UNESCO, which steadfastly confirmed itself as a hopeful humanitarian buttress of global architecture, a universally  recognized forum in defence of the spiritual and cultural heritage.
(13.5) It might be said that the hopes of the participants in the first session of the UNESCO General Conference have been  borne out, as they entrusted it with the noble role of shaping the intellectual and moral conditions required to ensure the  effective work of the whole United Nations system. And the Organization today is called upon to assist in strengthening the  atmosphere of trust and mutual understanding between countries and people and the advancement of the inviolable moral  values shared by all of the world’s main religions and cultures. We rely on UNESCO’s active participation in standing against  intolerance, nationalism and discrimination. It is necessary to promote to the hilt mutually respectful dialogue between  civilizations, culture and religions.
(13.6) The spread of terrorism and violent extremism in the Middle East and North Africa is of profound significance, with  fighters of the so-called “Islamic State” and those like them engaging in the mass slaughter of innocent citizens, defiling Islam,  and attacking all religions. There is a mass exodus of Christians from the region which threatens to destroy the historic  interreligious balance and coexistence in the Middle East. To a great extent, all of this has become the consequence of State  institutions weakened or destroyed, including by outside interference, in a number of States in the region, irresponsible  attempts at geopolitical engineering and the imposition on peoples of practices foreign to them, without taking account of their  traditions, history and heritage.
(13.7) When barbarians destroy invaluable monuments of world civilization, be it in the Syrian Arab Republic, Iraq,  Afghanistan or Kosovo, it is especially necessary to make collective efforts to safeguard universal culture. The legal basis for  this is the 1954 Convention for the Protection of Cultural Property in the Event of Armed Conflict. I recall that when it was  being prepared, the ideas were used of our compatriot, Nikolai Konstantinovich Roerich, which had been enshrined in the first  multilateral act in the field, developed 80 years ago.  As soon as the barbarians have been expelled from the territories where  there are world heritage sites, UNESCO will have to send missions there to assess the damage and prepare plans to restore  priceless religious and cultural sacred places.
(13.8) UNESCO’s competence is also required to achieve the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development, adopted in New  York in September, which includes new ambitious tasks set to achieve the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), including  in the fields of education and culture.
(13.9)  Russia is one of the most active members of UNESCO, participating in all its programmes in the fields of education,  natural and social sciences and communication. Russia’s role as one of the shapers of world culture and its hundreds of years  of experience in the coexistence of ethnic groups and religions confer upon our country a particular responsibility as regards  mobilizing collective efforts in resolving the vast tasks before UNESCO.
(13.10) These efforts are undermined as a result of the practice that has developed recently of individual States adopting  discriminatory measures against cultural and artistic actors, against journalists, as a result of a ban on the import of exhibits,
169  without mentioning the demolition of monuments to Second World War heroes in politically correct Europe to the eloquent  silence of many Western leaders, as if our continent had not experienced the full horror of Nazism, as if the Nuremberg trials  had never taken place. Any politicization of humanitarian links is unacceptable. We consider to be extremely dangerous  attempts to speculate on the humanitarian nature of UNESCO’s activity to resolve one-sided political tasks, as do some of our  colleagues, by all legal and illegal means promoting the matter of the membership of Kosovo in blatant violation of United  Nations Security Council resolution 1244 (1999). The increasing number of facts about States’ actions in impeding the  implementation of human rights in intellectual contacts is also cause for concern. We propose the adoption of an international  text to support the free nature of exchanges and cooperation in the fields of culture, art, science, and education in full  accordance with the aims and values of our Organization, which is called upon to assist the strengthening of peace and  security by means of broadening cooperation in its fields of competence. Thank you for your attention.
14. The President:   Thank you very much, Your Excellency. Our next speaker is Her Excellency Ms Naana Jane Opoku-Agyemang,  Minister of Education of Ghana. Your Excellency, you have the floor.
15.1 Ms Opoku-Agyemang (Ghana):   Mr President of the General Conference, Mr Chair of the Executive Board, Madam Director-General of UNESCO,  Excellencies, distinguished delegates, ladies and gentlemen. On behalf of His Excellency John Dramani Mahama,  President of the Republic of Ghana, and on behalf of all the people of Ghana, my delegation brings you all greetings and  felicitations to UNESCO for 70 years of promoting world peace. President Mahama was here in person on 5 October to  join in the anniversary celebrations.  No doubt the admirable and effective leadership of its current Director-General, Her  Excellency Ms Irina Bokova, has played a significant role in bringing the Organization this far. We congratulate the  President of this session of the General Conference as well, and pledge our full support to him.
15.2 Mr President, UNESCO ably led the world to make huge improvements in education under the Millennium  Development Goals (MDGs), and even if there is a lot of work to be done and we have started with the Sustainable  Development Goals (SDGs), we trust in the ability of our Organization to continue to make a difference by working  towards global peace through education. Ghana’s post-2015 agenda on education will focus on four main policy thrusts  in line with the Education 2030 Framework for Action in line with the African Union’s Agenda 2063 and in line with the  holistic concept of education. We will improve equitable access to and participation in quality education at all levels,  strengthen and rebrand technical and vocational training to make it more responsive to the world of work, improve the  quality of teaching and learning at all levels, and improve management of education service delivery with a focus on  efficiency.
15.3 Mr President, Ghana’s response to growing youth unemployment is to reform technical and vocational education  and training (TVET) and general skills development. Significant steps include the following: establishment of a broad- based governance structure, which includes statutory national technical committees with wide stakeholder representation;  establishment of a national TVET qualifications framework, which is being operationalized; adoption of a competency- based training model, with emphasis on strong linkages with industry, which has been piloted and is being rolled out;  crafting of a national TVET policy; and establishment of a national apprenticeship programme to cater for the huge  informal sector in Ghana. We look forward to collaborations and support in this critical area.
15.4 Mr President, the Ghana delegation appreciates the Programme on Man and the Biosphere (MAB) Strategy,  which provides a framework to contribute to the global Sustainable Development Goals. As Chair of the African Network  of Biosphere Reserves, Ghana has enlisted other ecosystems on the World Network of Biosphere Reserves (WNBR), as  model sites of excellence for sustainable development. We recognize support by UNESCO and the Governments of  Germany and the Republic of Korea for the Green Economy in Biosphere Reserves (GEBR) project, being implemented  in the biosphere reserve in the western region of Ghana to conserve biodiversity and reduce poverty. We urge UNESCO  to further strengthen its programme in the water sciences, that is, the Intergovernmental Oceanographic Commission  (IOC) and the International Hydrological Programme (IHP), as well as the intersectoral geoparks programme.
15.5 Mr President, the Ghana delegation applauds UNESCO’s advocacy role in promoting cultural diversity and  understanding between cultures in Member States. UNESCO has the merit of having called attention to the strong link  between culture and development and continues to promote actions including research in this area. A survey, sponsored  by UNESCO and conducted by the Ghana National Commission on Culture on the impact of indigenous Ghanaian  industries on the national economy, revealed that the broad cultural and creative sector is an enormous asset, with the  potential to create wealth in the country. In consequence, the parliament of Ghana ratified seven UNESCO cultural  conventions to fully harness this linkage for socio-economic progress.
15.6 Mr President, UNESCO and the African Union have made good progress at pushing forward the second phase  of the General History of Africa project, to which the Government of Ghana is fully committed because it seeks to  contribute to the renewal of the teaching of the history of Africa by promoting mutual understanding, regional integration  and peace. The project now requires urgent mobilization of additional funds to guarantee its effective implementation and  sustainability. The Government of Ghana will cooperate with others in this worthy cause.
15.7 Excellencies, distinguished ladies and gentlemen, in a world where technology is a key driver of development,  Ghana is leveraging information and communication technology (ICT) to achieve our educational targets as captured in  our national education sector plan. Current focus is on ICT in education generally, with special emphasis on distance  learning. We also appreciate UNESCO’s continued efforts in the training of journalists in climate change reporting. The  African University College of Communications in Ghana has received technical and financial support, and now one of its  courses on media and gender is offered to all students in the arts programme. UNESCO’s partnership with the National  Youth Authority and the Ghana-India Kofi Annan Centre of Excellence in ICT (AITI-KACE to train youth in mobile  applications is receiving good support.
15.8 Ghana looks forward to continuous collaboration with UNESCO in creating a world capable of rising above its  current challenges and moving into an era of shared prosperity and lasting peace for all. I thank you for your kind  attention.
16. The President:   Thank you very much Your Excellency. Our next speaker is His Excellency Mr Costas Kadis, Minister of  Education and Culture of Cyprus. Your Excellency, you have the floor.
17.1 Mr Kadis (Cyprus):  Mr President of the General Conference, Mr Chair of the Executive Board, Excellencies, distinguished delegates,  for 70 years UNESCO has been conducting pioneering work worldwide. Its vision to build lasting peace is still pertinent  and highly significant in addressing contemporary challenges. Cyprus fully embraces the key objectives which govern  UNESCO’s mandate.
17.2 Recently, we have all been witnessing the irreparable destruction of world heritage sites in war-torn countries  and the serious violation of fundamental human rights. Cultural heritage does not only concern monuments, but mostly  human values and identities. We are all responsible, therefore, for protecting this heritage against all possible threats.  Unfortunately, Cyprus’s cultural heritage still suffers extensively from the results of war and military occupation, with the  fate of thousands of invaluable archaeological, historical, ethnographic and ecclesiastical artefacts remaining unknown.  Cypriot cultural goods, as a result of looting and trafficking, are frequently located in auction houses and art markets  abroad. Fortunately, some of our efforts to repatriate such cultural goods have been successful. Cyprus has signed  numerous bilateral agreements with other countries, willing to join forces in the effort to protect cultural heritage and  combat trafficking.
17.3 As far as cultural property from Iraq and the Syrian Arab Republic is concerned, the competent authorities of  Cyprus are on high alert, especially due to our geographical proximity to these countries. Moreover, as of September
2015, Cyprus is a member of the subsidiary committee of the Convention on the Means of Prohibiting and Preventing the  Illicit Import, Export and Transfer of Ownership of Cultural Property. Safeguarding intangible cultural heritage, fostering  creativity and protecting the diversity of cultural expressions, through promoting regional and international cooperation,  are also of paramount importance. Cyprus acknowledges the role of culture, cultural expressions and creative industries  as driving forces for development. We greatly share the vision of UNESCO, the United Nations and the European Union  for a more integrated approach towards culture, aiming at mutual understanding, intercultural dialogue, social cohesion  and economic development.
17.4 Furthermore, the preservation of natural resources and the biodiversity of our planet are essential in building  sustainable societies. A great achievement for our country is the recent inclusion of Troodos Mountain in the Global  Geoparks Network (GGN), as a significant example of geodiversity.
17.5 At the heart of every transformative process lies education. UNESCO has paved the way for the promotion of  education for all (EFA), and we believe it should continue to play a leading role in the post-2015 education agenda. Two  days ago, the Education 2030 Framework for Action was formally adopted during the special high-level meeting. In this  regard, Cyprus will continue to expand its efforts toward inclusive and equitable quality education and lifelong learning for  all. Quality education requires professional and committed educators at all levels. Consequently, Cyprus has developed  and adopted recently a series of policies focusing on the quality of our teachers.
17.6 Mr President, in concluding, I wish to reiterate our commitment to contribute to the realization of UNESCO’s  mission, which is peace-building through education, culture and science. In Cyprus there is an ongoing negotiation  process aiming to reach a comprehensive solution to the Cyprus problem. The Government of Cyprus is fully committed  to this process; a process which, should it be concluded successfully, will give unprecedented impetus to peace and  sustainable development in our country and the wider region, and will thus be in line with UNESCO’s objectives and  values. Thank you for your attention.
(19.1) Mr Aleisa (Kuwait) (translation from the Arabic):    Mr Stanley Simataa, President of the General Conference at its 38th session, Mr Mohamed Sameh Amr, Chair of the  Executive Board, Ms Irina Bokova, Director-General of UNESCO, Excellencies heads and members of delegations,  Excellencies Ambassadors and Permanent Delegates to UNESCO, ladies and gentlemen, I offer you warm greetings and  convey to you greetings from the Emir of Kuwait, that humanitarian leader, Sheikh Sabah al-Ahmad al-Jaber al-Sabah, and  from the people and Government of Kuwait. We are pleased to express our appreciation for the persistent efforts exerted by  UNESCO in a world buffeted by catastrophes and suffering from crises, war and extremism, where children are the most  fragile victims of those plagues and the most vulnerable to their physical and psychological effects. In order to protect children  from the effects of armed conflicts, we urge that the seeds of war and violence be eradicated by inculcating the concept of  “cultivating peace” and bringing about a “culture of peace” in order to preserve the value and dignity of individuals. As a result  of wars, all categories of society are at risk, but women are in reality the primary victims of marginalization, poverty and  suffering arising from armed conflicts. Similarly, violence, or the mere threat of using violence, is the most important obstacle  to the achievement of full equality for women. The dignity of individuals, the rights of both women and men, and the rights of all  children are all among our foremost priorities in devising our various policies. In this connection, the most recent donation by  Kuwait of $5 million to support UNESCO’s educational and other initiatives, and other financial contributions, are a reflection of  Kuwait’s faith in the dissemination of these humanitarian values and principles and in supporting UNESCO to enable it to  perform its great humanitarian role. It is also a result of Kuwait’s commitment to alleviating the suffering of children and their  exclusion from education as a result of wars, and on the basis that education is the main gateway to stability, that Kuwait  decided to host a donors’ conference in support of education in Somalia to begin with, and hopes to repeat the experiment in  other countries of the region, in partnership with Somalia, the Arab League Educational, Cultural and Scientific Organization  (ALECSO), and the Islamic Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization (ISESCO).
(19.2) Ladies and gentlemen, Kuwait expresses its appreciation and support for the international alliance “#Unite4Heritage”,  which constitutes a response to the ongoing global threat of destruction to the cultural heritage of humankind, and a threat to  the Middle East region, the place of origin of ancient human societies. The continuing destruction of our heritage as a result of  attacks carried out by terrorist groups who have taken our cultural sites as strongholds prompts us to call for a strengthening of  this global alliance and to expand its horizons by launching a United Nations decade 2015-2024 for the protection of the  human heritage and in order to preserve that heritage for future generations. Today we are all facing waves of violent terrorism  of various kinds, including religious, racial and political, which makes it necessary for us all to pool our efforts by establishing  dialogue and disseminating the culture of peace among our communities and within them.
(19.3) Ladies and gentlemen, Kuwait welcomes the results of the World Education Forum 2015 held in Incheon last May  and the Incheon Declaration “Education 2030: Towards inclusive and equitable quality education and lifelong learning for all”,  which defined a global roadmap for education to enable countries and partners to mobilize their energies to implement the  global agenda to ensure access for all to equal education opportunities. We stress in this connection the tremendous  possibilities that education provides as a transformative force which helps to achieve sustainable development and to  eliminate poverty from the face of the Earth.
(19.4) Ladies and gentlemen, the failure to adopt a united global policy to deal with climate change is a challenge for our  developing countries, especially the poorest and most fragile ones. This phenomenon aggravates the threats and challenges  to these countries, complicates their efforts to reduce poverty, and constitutes an obstacle to their development and well-being.  There is an undeniable connection between climate change and its impact on the one hand, and human development and  progress on the other. Kuwait therefore hopes that the forthcoming Conference of States Parties to the United Nations  Framework Convention on Climate Change (COP 21), to be held from 30 November to 11 December next, will give rise to a  world which is seriously concerned about the climate.
(19.5) Mr President of the General Conference, Kuwait would like to express its appreciation to the Director-General, the  Secretariat, the Chair and Members of the Executive Board for their agreement to establish two category 2 centres under the  auspices of UNESCO, the first, the Global Centre of Excellence for the Empowerment of Persons with Disabilities through
172  Information and Communication Technologies, the other the Water Research Centre. This will no doubt help to attain the  objectives of our region with regard to helping individuals with disabilities and to include them in knowledge societies, and to  meet water-related challenges in regions where water is scarce. Finally, we express our appreciation to the UNESCO  Secretariat for its efforts to preserve the cultural heritage of the Old City of Jerusalem.
(21.1) Mr Araygi (Lebanon) (translation from the Arabic):    Mr President of the General Conference, Mr Chair of the Executive Board, Madam Director-General, Excellencies  heads of delegation, ladies and gentlemen, I congratulate the President of the General Conference, I commend the efforts of  the Director-General, I praise the effectiveness of the Chair of the Executive Board, and I wish the Organization every success  at the 38th session of its General Conference. I am filled with hope and joy in this hall which brings together the  representatives of States under the slogans of the harmony of civilizations, the solidarity of the cultures of humankind, and the  all-encompassing humanity of individuals on our small planet. We are proud to say that Lebanon was a founding member of  UNESCO, believing in the role of culture and science in the development of human society. UNESCO’s message is constantly  with us in our outlook and practice. This is why Lebanon hopes to win a seat on UNESCO’s Executive Board in the election to  be held later this month.
(21.2) Ladies and gentlemen, the Middle East, and more specifically the Arab world, is going through a period of massacres,  mass displacement and destruction of the monuments of civilizations for external reasons relating to the interests of countries,  and internal reasons arising from poverty, illiteracy, lack of democracy, the growth of terrorist and annihilationist  fundamentalism which has destroyed the foundations of countries and cultural monuments, and displaced minorities and  human groups in the region in which they have been deeply rooted for thousands of years, especially in Iraq and the Syrian  Arab Republic. The idea of founding UNESCO arose during the Second World War, at a time when the Allies were facing an  annihilationist ideology. We are today in great need of reviving the values of the Enlightenment in order to halt the waves of  hatred and physical and intellectual annihilationism washing over numerous points worldwide. The Preamble of UNESCO’s  Constitution states: “… since wars begin in the minds of men, it is in the minds of men that the defences of peace must be  constructed”. We officials, opinion-shapers and intellectual institutions are today called upon to build a culture of peace so that  UNESCO’s principles do not remain a distant ideal to be attained in respecting values, freedoms and the specificities of  peoples. Only knowledge and the sciences can be means to build free, cultivated and enlightened societies. We are proud that  Lebanon has achieved obligatory schooling at the primary level. Lebanese State schools have opened their doors in the  afternoons to the tens of thousands of children of Syrian refugees.
(21.3) Ladies and gentlemen, among the most horrible things we can see on our television screens and social media are  the waves of children, women and men fleeing by sea and on land from massacres in their own countries. In the refugee  camps in Lebanon today there are approximately a million and a half Syrian refugees and some 500,000 Palestinian refugees  living under difficult conditions, constituting a burden on Lebanon, which needs support from countries and international  institutions in order to provide the necessary care. The tragedy of the Syrian refugees is a great crisis for Lebanon on more  than one level, especially since they now constitute more than 30% of the population. From this podium, I appeal to the  countries and international organizations, in addition to the aid they offer refugees, to provide support directly to the Lebanese  State to enable it to care for the refugees. The international community is called upon to put an end to the war and bring peace  to the Syrian Arab Republic, paving the way for the refugees to return home. The international community is also called upon  to find an equitable solution to the Palestinian tragedy which enables their land and rights to be returned to their rightful  owners. These are grand concerns which are awaiting grand solutions. Because of the wars and the lack of stability, the  cultural monuments and archaeological sites have suffered destruction, plunder and smuggling of objects to the black market  all over the world.
(21.4) Greatly appreciating UNESCO’s role and the efforts of the Director-General in protecting this cultural heritage in  jeopardy, I reiterate Lebanon’s full commitment to the relevant conventions and Security Council resolutions. Lebanon exerts  all possible efforts to combat trafficking in archaeological artefacts and to protect them. Global warming (the greenhouse effect)  is increasing the tragedy by destroying the environment and changing the climate. All the world climate conferences have  failed to alleviate the impact of this phenomenon thus far. We sincerely hope that positive decisions will emerge from the  forthcoming Paris conference on the climate, and restore some environmental equilibrium to the Earth.
(21.5) Ladies and gentlemen, despite the wars, tragedies and destruction on the various continents, we in Lebanon hold  firmly to the principles of UNESCO, which established the International Centre for Human Sciences (ICHS) at Byblos (Jubail)  in Lebanon. Lebanon is proud to be the country of the message, as Pope John-Paul II said, since in its territory, the three  celestial messages and free human dialogue provide a fraternal model. The human individual is an absolute value, and life is  an opportunity for transition through which we embellish our human contributions on this lovely planet. Let us celebrate with  the various types of human values and with the building of the defences of peace in human minds and societies. We are  condemned to hope and the radiance of life. Thank you.
22. The President:   Thank you very much Your Excellency. Our next speaker is His Excellency Mr Nabi Avci, Minister of National  Education of Turkey. Your Excellency, you have the floor.
23.1 Mr Avci (Turkey)   (address delivered in Turkish; English text provided by the Turkish delegation):   Your Excellency Mr President, Mr Chair of the Executive Board, Honourable Director-General, Excellencies,  ministers, dear colleagues and friends, first of all, I would like to congratulate you Mr President upon your election, and  reassure you of Turkey’s full cooperation during your tenure. I would also like to thank the outgoing President of the 37th  session of the General Conference, His Excellency Mr Hao Ping.
23.2 As I did two years ago, this time again I would like to address you in my mother tongue Turkish, a language  spoken by more than 200 million people around the world. I am assured by your positive reactions the previous time that  my choice would be in conformity with UNESCO’s principle of “unity in diversity”.
23.3 Honourable colleagues, today in my country we are laying the “poet of fineness”, Ms Gülten Akın, to rest. As  seen in her following lines, UNESCO’s spirit is well reflected in Gülten Akın’s poetry:   “It’s a shameful thing!  As Camus says…  To be happy all alone…  Voices and other voices!!  Where are the voices of the world?”  May God bless her spirit.
23.4 Dear friends, we are gathered yet again in this august body, as we commemorate the 70th anniversary of  UNESCO. New threats lie ahead on the path that we started walking together 70 years ago with the aim of building  peace in the minds of people. Fault lines dividing nations, religions and cultures are becoming more visible. The global  social harmony is threatened by growing radicalism and abyss between religions, ethnicities and cultural communities.  As a matter of fact, there is an escalation in hatred and marginalization of “the other” even in countries with strong  democratic traditions. It is also alarming that the votes of political parties depicting immigrants as a source of unrest,  unemployment, crime, poverty and other social problems are on the rise.
23.5 Turkey and Spain have launched the Alliance of Civilizations. It is timely for UNESCO to explore ways to  contribute to the strengthening of dialogue between civilizations, through actions under the International Decade for the  Rapprochement of Cultures. When I took the floor before this august assembly two years ago, I underlined the need for  reform to increase UNESCO’s effectiveness. I furthermore emphasized the need to keep the reform process going and  expressed our full support for Director-General Bokova in her efforts. I reiterated to the Director-General our continuing  commitment to reform when she was in Ankara for her first official visit of the 70th anniversary year. Let me take this  opportunity to thank the Director-General for helping us to carry UNESCO into a more dynamic setting, despite serious  financial constraints.
23.6 Dear colleagues, education should remain at the core of our efforts in countering violent extremism and  terrorism. In this respect, we find the education for all (EFA) platform and the global citizenship education programme  quite helpful. We also fully endorse the goals and projects promoting girls’ education and gender equality. Meanwhile  Turkey will continue vigorously supporting UNESCO’s Priority Africa programmes.
23.7 The Education 2030 Framework for Action, which we have recently adopted, is another manifestation of  UNESCO’s leading role in the global education efforts. UNESCO’s education programmes and networks such as the  Associated Schools Project Network (ASPnet) UNESCO Clubs and University Twinning and Networking Programme  (UNITWIN)/UNESCO Chairs, are pillars of quality education for all, intellectual cooperation and participation. Turkey will  take part in and foster those programmes.
23.8 UNESCO is at a turning point in the field of culture. Cultural heritage is facing the worst-ever threat in history. It  is fundamentally important to protect the universal heritage of civilization that is exposed to the threat of annihilation both  by the evil forces of terror and violent extremism. As Chair of the World Heritage Committee, we are aiming at result- oriented deliberations on this issue during the 40th session of the Committee from 10 to 20 July 2016 in Istanbul.
23.9 Dear colleagues, for Turkey, UNESCO is a House of mutual understanding and tolerance. The implementation  of decisions adopted in this House should not be delayed. Those decisions taken about Palestine under this roof have  the potential to facilitate solutions through UNESCO’s soft power and cultural diplomacy. Now is the time to take action.  Tomorrow may be too late.
23.10 Another important issue, which should not be left behind, is the migration crisis that is growing like an avalanche.  As a result of the open door policy that we have pursued since the outset of the crisis, Turkey is now hosting over  two million Syrian refugees. Without any tangible support and contribution from the international community, we have  been providing shelter, security, food, education and healthcare, by investing over $7 billion from our national budget.  Turkey is proud of fulfilling its humane duties and responsibilities.
23.11 Dear colleagues, Turkey has announced its candidature to the Executive Board of UNESCO for the 2017-2021  period. We believe that we will be able to contribute intellectually, as well as through deeds and concrete actions, to the  work of the Organization and add momentum to it through regional and international cooperation. We count on your  confidence and valuable support. Thank you.
24. The President:   Thank you very much Your Excellency for concluding your intervention within the allotted time. Ladies and  gentlemen, as I mentioned earlier, we have a special guest paying us a visit this morning, His Excellency Mr Nursultan  Nazarbayev, President of Kazakhstan. I will now suspend the meeting for five minutes, in order to welcome our  distinguished visitor. I kindly ask you all to remain in your seats until we regain this room. Thank you very much.  Visit by His Excellency Mr Nursultan Nazarbayev, President of Kazakhstan  Visite de Son Excellence M. Nursultan Nazarbayev, Président du Kazakhstan  Visita del Excelentísimo Sr. Nursultan Nazarbayev, Presidente de Kazajstán  Визит Его Превосходительства г-на Нурсултана Назарбаева, Президента Республики Казахстан  السيد نور سلطان نزار باييف، رئيس جمهورية كازاخستان فخامةالزيارة التي قام بها    哈萨克斯坦总统纳扎尔巴耶夫先生阁下来访  His Excellency Mr Nursultan Nazarbayev, President of Kazakhstan,  enters Room I and is escorted to his place
25.1 The President:   Thank you very much. Your Excellency Mr Nursultan Nazarbayev, Mr Chair of the Executive Board, Madam  Director-General, ladies and gentlemen, in my capacity as President of the General Conference of UNESCO it is a  special honour to welcome to this 38th session of the General Conference our distinguished guest, one of the longest- serving heads of State, His Excellency Mr Nursultan Nazarbayev, President of Kazakhstan. As the first and current  President of his country, Mr Nazarbayev oversaw the rapid development of Kazakhstan into one of the region’s strongest  economies. His Excellency launched widespread economic, social and political reforms which promote education,  research and development, as well as cultural diversity in his country. Under his leadership, cooperation with UNESCO  has grown and has flourished.
25.2 Your Excellency, I wish also to pay tribute to your country’s initiative that led the United Nations General  Assembly to proclaim an International Decade for the Rapprochement of Cultures, for which UNESCO has been  designated as the lead agency for the United Nations system. To support the goals of this International Decade,  Kazakhstan recently organized the Fifth Congress of Leaders of World and Traditional Religions. Mr President, we are  indeed honoured by your presence, and are looking forward to hearing your message today. The floor is yours, Your  Excellency.
26.1 M. Nazarbayev (Président du Kazakhstan):   (Discours prononcé en kazakh ; texte français fourni par la délégation):   Monsieur le Président, Madame la Directrice Générale, mesdames et messieurs, c’est pour moi un grand  honneur de saluer les participants et les invités de la 38e session de la Conférence générale de l’UNESCO. Dans la  famille des Nations unies, l’UNESCO est investi d’un rôle particulier. Cette organisation, créée il y a 70 ans, est appelée   « la conscience de l’humanité ». Son apport a été immense pour la conservation de l’héritage culturel et historique et  l’élargissement des liens internationaux, qu’il s’agisse de culture, de science ou de communication.
26.2 Le Kazakhstan soutient complètement l’action de l’UNESCO dont les priorités constituent des axes importants  des Objectifs de développement durable de l’ONU. Il y a vingt ans, à cette même tribune,  j’avais exposé les buts et les  problèmes du jeune Etat kazakh à l’aube de son indépendance. Aujourd’hui nous avons atteint la majorité des Objectifs
175  du millénaire pour le développement fixés par l’ONU. Le niveau de pauvreté a été divisé par onze, passant de 34% à 3%.  Nous avons construit des centaines d’écoles et d’hôpitaux. Le PIB du Kazakhstan a été multiplié par 19, et le revenu par  habitant a atteint celui des pays à revenus intermédiaires. L’espérance de vie des Kazakhs a dépassé 70 ans. Le niveau  de la mortalité infantile et maternelle a baissé. Nous avons connu de grands succès dans la lutte contre le sida, la  malaria et la tuberculose. Nous avons adopté le programme « Kazakhstan-2050 » dont les buts sont en pleine  concordance avec les objectifs du développement durable et nous avons la volonté d’entrer dans la liste des trente pays  les plus développés du monde.
26.3 Chers délégués, ces dernières années ont vu s’aggraver les menaces de divisions entre les civilisations, les  confrontations sur des fondements inter ethniques, inter culturels et inter religieux. Les derniers débats de la 70ème  session de l’Assemblée générale de l’ONU ont confirmé l’urgente nécessité de bâtir un nouveau paradigme de  développement mondial. Les initiatives internationales du Kazakhstan ont pour finalité la réalisation de cet important  objectif. Nous proposons un Plan d’initiative stratégique globale – 2045. Son contenu consiste dans l’élaboration d’une  stratégie de développement mondial éliminant les causes profondes des guerres et des conflits. Elle a pour ambition de  donner une nouvelle orientation au développement sur la base d’un accès équitable de toutes les nations aux  infrastructures mondiales, aux ressources et aux marchés mais aussi d’une responsabilité commune envers le  développement de l’humanité. Le but principal doit être l’édification d’un monde sans armes nucléaires. A cette fin, nous  proposons l’adoption d’une déclaration générale de l’ONU sur un monde exempt d’armes nucléaires. En 2016, il se sera  écoulé 25 ans depuis la signature, par moi, du décret de fermeture du Centre d’essais nucléaires de Semipalatinsk.  C’est une occasion importante d’unir les efforts de la communauté internationale en vue d’atteindre cet objectif essentiel  d’un monde dénucléarisé.
26.4 Un problème urgent est la constitution d’un front international commun contre le terrorisme et l’extrémisme  religieux. Aujourd’hui les terres de l’antique Mésopotamie, berceau des civilisations mondiales et des grandes religions,  font l’objet d’une destruction barbare et de pillages. Les actions de ce qui est appelé « l’Etat islamique » font subir des  atteintes irréparables à l’héritage historico-culturel unique du Proche orient. Le Kazakhstan condamne fermement le  terrorisme et l’extrémisme sous toutes ses formes. Nous proposons de mettre en place sous l’égide de l’ONU un réseau  commun mondial de lutte contre le terrorisme international et l’extrémisme. Il est important que les efforts pour combattre  l’islamisme radical ne conduisent pas à identifier ce dernier avec l’islam pacifique. S’opposer au terrorisme n’est possible  que sur la base d’un dialogue interculturel et interreligieux. C’est précisément sur cela qu’est fondée notre idée de créer  un forum « L’Islam contre le terrorisme ». Il est indispensable de mobiliser plus largement le potentiel de l’UNESCO sur  les questions de l’instauration de la paix et de la stabilité internationale.
26.5 Je propose que soit fondée auprès de l’UNESCO une Académie internationale de maintien de la paix et du  développement durable. S’appuyant sur la meilleure expérience internationale, l’Académie pourrait élaborer des idées  progressistes et des mesures effectives pour le maintien de la paix et la mise en œuvre d’un développement durable. Est  d’une importance particulière la recherche de voies pour une prévention précoce des conflits passant par la réalisation  de l’idée défendue par l’UNESCO d’une « Culture de la paix ». Les principes de cette idée sont en accord avec l’initiative  prise par le Kazakhstan d’élaborer, sous l’égide de l’ONU, le concept d’un Nouveau Futur (New Future).
26.7 Mesdames, messieurs, au milieu du 13ème siècle un moine français, Guillaume de Rubrouck, a visité la ville  kazakhe antique de Kaialik où cohabitaient en paix des communautés chrétiennes, bouddhistes, manichéennes et  musulmanes. L’an dernier, à l’initiative du Kazakhstan, de la Chine et du Kirghizstan ont été inscrits sur la liste du  patrimoine mondial de l’UNESCO huit sites archéologiques situés sur la Route de la Soie. Parmi eux, on compte aussi la  ville de Kaialik, symbole ancien de tolérance religieuse et d’amitié. Il y a peu, le Kazakhstan a fêté les 550 ans du khanat  kazakh. Nous faisons revivre l’héritage historique et culturel de la Grande steppe et de ses valeurs spirituelles. Nous  protégeons soigneusement les monuments inscrits sur la Liste indicative de l’UNESCO, parmi lesquels : Otrar,  Turkestan, Saouran, et Syganak.
26.8 En 2013, le Kazakhstan est devenu pour la première fois membre du Comité du patrimoine mondial de  l’UNESCO. Cette mission fait peser sur nous une responsabilité particulière dans le domaine de la préservation du  patrimoine historique et culturel. La renaissance des traditions de la Route de la soie revêt une importance particulière.  Son histoire montre qu’une collaboration étroite et qu’un enrichissement culturel réciproque sont au fondement de la paix  et du progrès de l’humanité entière. Je suis heureux qu’ait été inscrit dans le Calendrier des célébrations d’anniversaires  de l’UNESCO le Millénaire de la ville d’Almaty qui fut un nœud de communication sur la partie Jetyssou de la Route de la  soie. Pays pluriethnique et multiconfessionnel, le Kazakhstan promeut l’idée de tolérance et d’entente entre les ethnies.  Organisé à notre initiative, le Congrès des dirigeants de religions mondiales et traditionnelles est devenu une plateforme  de dialogue internationale reconnue et jugée très favorablement par l’ONU. Le Kazakhstan a initié la proclamation par  l’ONU de la Décennie internationale du rapprochement des cultures (2013-2022). Nous apportons tout notre soutien, y  compris financier, à la bonne conduite de ce programme par l’UNESCO. Nous comptons sur le soutien des États  membres de l’UNESCO en ce qui concerne la création à Astana d’un Centre de rapprochement des cultures sous l’égide  de l’UNESCO.
26.9 Chers participants à la Conférence, je suis convaincu que l’éducation est la clé pour une existence pacifique, un  développement durable et en conséquence, pour le progrès de l’humanité au 21ème siècle. En tant que leader mondial  dans le domaine de l’éducation il revient à l’UNESCO d’élaborer des standards unifiés de qualité d’enseignement vers  lesquels tendront tous les pays.
26.10 Le Kazakhstan, à son tour, modernise son système éducatif national. Notre pays est l’un des premiers États  post soviétiques à être devenu membre de l'espace européen de l'enseignement supérieur. Il y a cinq ans nous avons  rejoint la Convention culturelle européenne et le processus de Bologne. Nous avons créé dans notre pays un réseau
176  national d’écoles et de collèges d’excellence de niveau international. L’Université Nazarbaiev est un projet d’avant-garde  dans le domaine de la science et de la culture. Au final, sur 130 pays, le Kazakhstan est en quatrième position dans  l’indice de développement de l’éducation de l’UNESCO. En soutien à l’initiative de l’ONU « L’énergie durable pour tous »,  se tiendra en 2017 à Astana, à l’exposition universelle « Expo 2017 ». Je profite de l’occasion pour inviter tous les États  à participer à l’ « Expo 2017 ». Dans le cadre de cette exposition je propose qu’y soit ouvert un « Pavillon de  l’UNESCO » pour montrer le rôle de l’UNESCO dans la promotion du développement durable. Sur la base des  infrastructures de l’Expo 2017 nous avons l’intention de fonder un Centre international de développement des énergies  vertes sous l’égide de l’ONU. Je pense que l’UNESCO pourrait devenir le co-sponsor scientifique de ce Centre.
26.11 Chers amis, le Kazakhstan apporte son soutien à la politique visant à accroître l’efficacité de l’UNESCO, à  renforcer son autorité, par le biais de sa modernisation et de l’adaptation de l’Organisation aux défis de la modernité. Je  suis convaincu que l’UNESCO continuera à servir de forum de première importance pour la collaboration des États et  des peuples au nom de la culture, de l’humanisme et de la paix. Je souhaite aux participants à la Conférence générale  un travail fructueux pour le bien de l’humanité. Je vous remercie de votre attention.
27. The President:   Thank you very much, Your Excellency. On behalf of all Member States I would like to thank the President of  Kazakhstan for his speech. We are humbled and honoured by your presence. I also wish to take this opportunity to  congratulate you, Mr President, and the people of Kazakhstan, on the 550th anniversary of the Kazakh Khanate. Ladies  and gentlemen, let us suspend the meeting for five minutes in order to allow His Excellency and his entourage to leave  the room. May I ask delegates to kindly remain seated. I thank you.  His Excellency Mr Nursultan Nazarbayev is escorted from Room I.  General policy debate (continued)  Débat de politique générale (suite)  Debate de política general (continuación)  Обсуждение вопросов общей политики (продолжение)  جتابع)مناقشة السياسة العامة    总政策辩论（续）
28.1 The President:   Thank you very much ladies and gentlemen. We will now continue with the national statements, but before we  do, the delegation of Azerbaijan has requested a right of reply to the statement that was made by the Minister of Foreign  Affairs of Armenia. Rule 72 of the Rules of Procedure of the General Conference states that the President may accord  the right to reply at the end of the last meeting of the day. The representative of Azerbaijan shall therefore, in accordance  with Rule 72, have two minutes for this statement at the end of this afternoon’s plenary. Are you in agreement with this  proposal? I see no objection. It is so decided.
28.2 We shall now go back to the national statements, and I have the pleasure and honour to invite His Excellency  Mr Myron Walwyn, Minister of Education and Culture of the British Virgin Islands. Your Excellency, you have the floor.
29.1 Mr Walwyn (British Virgin Islands):  Mr President of the General Conference, Excellencies, Mr Chair of the Executive Board, Madam Director- General, Honourable Ministers and heads of delegations, distinguished ladies and gentlemen, good morning. I am  honoured to be here this morning to deliver this address and I will first begin by congratulating you, Mr President, on  behalf of the Government and people of the British Virgin Islands on becoming the President of the 38th session of the  General Conference.
29.2 The Virgin Islands applaud Director-General Ms Irina Bokova for her call on us to celebrate UNESCO in its  progress in education, science, culture and communication, as we also fully endorse UNESCO’s key mission, which is to  “contribute to the building of peace, and the alleviation of poverty”. This must be central to all our work programmes  beyond 2015.
29.3 Mr President, permit me to also acknowledge the valuable contribution of Professor Hao Ping, President of the
37th session of the General Conference, for his unwavering commitment to our initiatives. We also welcome our sister  island of Montserrat to the UNESCO family.
29.4 Mr President, UNESCO prides itself on the mantra “education for all”. I am pleased to report that our  Government has been reinvesting and rebuilding the educational sector in this respect. We have been working  assiduously to ensure that all citizens, from early years to adulthood, have the opportunities through which they can each  reach their full potential, to be successful in life, at work and in the community through the core message of creating a  culture of excellence.
29.5 The Government of the Virgin Islands believes that no real economic and social development is possible,  particularly in small island developing States (SIDS), without a solid foundation in education. Hence, quality inclusive  education at all levels continues to be central to our territory’s development. Our Government realizes that in order for  the Virgin Islands to maintain a relevant and vibrant economy, we need to find opportunities to prepare our young people  today, so that they can properly take care of their homeland in an uncertain tomorrow and to prepare them to be good  global citizens.
29.6 We fully support UNESCO’s thrust in education in the areas of information and communication technologies  (ICTs), technical and vocational education and training (TVET) and teacher training and development. The need for  technical and vocational professionals continues to be an area of great need for us in the Virgin Islands. This is why we  have provided opportunities for our young people in this area by developing and opening our territory’s first technical high  school. At the Virgin Islands School of Technical Studies our secondary students have the opportunity to be fully  engaged in their chosen fields of interest, while earning entry level professional certification. I have met with some of  your experts, Mr President, in this field during this Conference, and will be following up to receive assistance to take our  TVET programme even further.
29.7 We live in an era where a whiteboard is becoming a more relevant tool than a blackboard; thus, we are in the  process of remodelling all schools with a view to fully integrating ICT in the teaching and learning process. In 2014 we  started a pilot programme in primary schools, with a view that by 2020 all students in the Virgin Islands would be learning  in completely wired classrooms and courses would be taught using the technology and tools of the day. We will be  calling on UNESCO to support this initiative as we utilize technology to support our students’ education.
29.8 This year we implemented a major change in our education system – the addition of an extra year of schooling  at the secondary level. This gives our students the time needed to master core subjects, develop their analytical and  critical thinking skills and mature as young adults. Our education system now takes pupils through 12 mandatory years of  education from ages 5 to 17. We anticipate that this move will prepare our students for the academic challenges of  tertiary education and give them the skills needed to gain and maintain employment in our economy.
29.9 We see schools and classrooms with strong leadership and quality teachers as the foundation that is needed to  create an exciting and engaging environment for our students to be prepared for today’s world and beyond. By retraining  and licensing our education professionals to meet modern requirements of teaching in this age, we expect to see this  process enriching the lives of our students and our community as we seek your assistance.
29.10 Special needs education is high on the Government’s agenda, and we expect to make significant strides in this  area. When we speak of the education for all movement, we speak to the commitment to provide quality education for all  children, youth and adults. We continue our work on developing our education system to concentrate on providing even  more services for differently-abled students to be truly included in our society, both academically and socially. We look to  UNESCO for expertise to help us to improve in this area so that we can offer our most vulnerable society members the  best opportunities for advancement.
29.11 Mr President, the Government of the Virgin Islands believes that UNESCO is strategically well positioned to  assist our subregion in amplifying intercultural dialogue on the legacy of enslavement and its associated impact on  cultural heritage. People without an understanding of how they come into being will be forced to imagine and create a  history for themselves, and we cannot afford that. Given the rich history of the Virgin Islands, we have implemented  initiatives such as the teaching of Virgin Islands history at all levels and introduced a mandatory national citizens  programme to build and promote the Virgin Islands culture and pride, which we anticipate will have a positive impact  propagating the values and achievements that have helped to shape our community. However; much more is needed in  the preservation of our historical sites, sites that are of global significance, and we seek UNESCO’s continued help to  include sites such as Saint Phillip’s Anglican Church or the “African Church” and the Nottingham Freed Slaves Estate in  the Memory of the World Register and World Heritage List.
29.12 Madam Director-General, this year UNESCO celebrates its 70th anniversary. On behalf of the people of the  Virgin Islands, I would like to congratulate you on being at the helm of the marking of this significant milestone. We  further renew the Virgin Islands’ commitment and support for UNESCO to advance the progress of our community and of  the nations and people with a rekindling of hope and vision as we look to the future. Thank you, Mr President.
30. The President:   Thank you very much Your Excellency. Our next speaker is His Excellency Mr Dario Franceschini, Minister of  Culture of Italy. Your Excellency, you have the floor.
31.1 Mr Franceschini (Italy):   Mr President, I am honoured to be here today at the UNESCO General Conference, to share my thoughts with  you. We live at a time when UNESCO’s unique mandate becomes even more urgent. We have all witnessed the  appalling images of historical and archaeological sites being destroyed by terrorist organizations. Cultural heritage is  being systematically attacked, with the clear objective of erasing the symbols of a given country’s culture, religion and  past. In order to tackle these urgent issues my country is ready to share its long experience in the field of safeguarding  cultural heritage at risk, both at the international and the national levels. I believe that the destruction of the symbols of a  nation’s identity is a direct blow against humanity, against its capability to preserve a country’s history, traditions and  roots for its future generations. UNESCO’s Director-General referred to the terrorist attacks against archaeological sites  in the Middle East as “cultural cleansing” and I agree.
31.2 At the end of July, the ministers of culture from 83 delegations gathered during the Milan Expo and agreed on  the need for a proactive role of the international community in this regard. The Milan Declaration, which was approved on  that occasion, reinforced the idea of establishing a “#Unite4Heritage” global coalition, as suggested by Ms Bokova at the  Bonn Conference. Therefore, our Prime Minister, Matteo Renzi, at the recent United Nations General Assembly, urged  the United Nations to foresee a cultural component in all future peace missions where cultural heritage is at risk. Italy is  engaged in strengthening UNESCO’s leading role in preserving world cultural heritage and combating trafficking. To  achieve these goals, we believe that only a shared and coordinated approach will provide an efficient solution by unifying  the efforts that are being deployed on a bilateral basis by a growing number of Member States. The United Nations has
178  brought international attention to the phenomenon of trafficking of archaeological heritage as a possible form of financing  terrorism. In the fight against trafficking, let me also recall an effective and positive example of coordinated approach in  which Italy played a significant role: the International Guidelines for Crime Prevention and Criminal Justice Response  with Respect to Trafficking in Cultural Property and Other Related Offences, recently adopted by the United Nations  General Assembly and soon to be published. Furthermore, an appeal has been launched to consider the need to  contemplate a cultural component in peacekeeping missions, under its auspices.
31.3 For all these reasons, we have recently presented two important decisions, adopted by the Executive Board of  UNESCO in April and October last, which aim at creating, under UNESCO’s coordination and in collaboration with  Member States, a concrete mechanism for rapid intervention in areas where cultural heritage is at risk. I believe that we,  as Member States, can make a pivotal contribution by unifying our efforts and establishing national teams that UNESCO  could rely on whenever needed; on a preventive basis or in the aftermath of a conflict to protect and reconstruct cultural  heritage.
31.4 In Italy, we have already set up a national #Unite4Heritage team, which is composed of experts from our  ministries of culture, defence and foreign affairs, and officers from the Carabinieri Department for the Protection of  Cultural Heritage. This task force will act as rapid response teams able to defend monuments and archaeological sites,  ready to intervene in emergency situations, and especially before crises occur.
31.5 This is only a first step. We all share the same responsibility of deploying every possible effort to avoid that  people from different cultures, religions and traditions are deprived of their cultural roots and identity and obliged to flee  from their country. It is a worldwide humanitarian and security issue. It is my country’s firm belief that the protection of  cultural heritage and identity is key to fostering peace and social stability. The framework of the 2030 Agenda for  Sustainable Development recognizes that culture is not only a driver for economic growth, but also an important tool for  resilience-building in situations of crisis. We hope that we may count on your delegations’ support as we continue our  work in this direction, all our countries together, all proud, very proud, to be all part of UNESCO. Thank you very much.  Mr Rodriguez Cuadros (Peru) takes the Chair.
(32) The President (translation from the Spanish):   Thank you very much, Mr Minister. I now give the floor to His Excellency Mr Herminio Coloma, Minister in the  Presidential Office for Communications of the Philippines. Mr Minister.
33.1 Mr Coloma (Philippines):  Mr President of the General Conference, Madam Director-General, distinguished delegates, good morning. This  year, the international community renews its commitment to work in solidarity to achieve a collective objective – the  attainment of the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) that build on the Millennium Development Goals (MDGs).  These goals are framed within the context of total human development that seeks to uproot poverty and ensures the  attainment of inclusive growth and progress, where no one is left behind.
33.2 The Philippines Government has invested in human capital by purposively allocating the single biggest portion of  its national budget to education and integrated social protection programmes in health, nutrition and livelihood.  Significant strides in universal primary education have been the key in terms of bringing back to school marginalized  children through formal schooling and alternative learning. The World Bank has recently commended the expanded  conditional cash transfer programme that supports the poorest families in ensuring that their children remain in school as  one of the best social protection programmes.
33.3 The Philippines commits itself to the guiding principles of the Incheon Declaration adopted in the World  Education Forum upon which is based Sustainable Development Goal 4 – “Ensure inclusive and equitable quality  education and promote lifelong learning opportunities for all”. The country’s flagship education reform programme, “K to
12” (or compulsory kindergarten, followed by grades 1 to 12) builds the foundation for lifelong learning. This programme  provides the basic tools for critical thinking and innovation, and creates multiple pathways through four learning tracks:  academic, technical-vocational, arts and design, and sports. Our country hosted the education category 2 centres’  biennial meeting on 25 to 27 May 2015, through the South-East Asian Centre for Lifelong Learning for Sustainable  Development. Best practices and plans for further collaboration to support Education 2030 were discussed.
33.4 Through closer coordination, the executive and judicial branches of our Government are exerting maximum  efforts to expedite the arrest and conviction of those involved in political violence. Monitoring mechanisms have also  been put in place to support the United Nations Plan of Action on the Safety of Journalists and the Issue of Impunity. This  is in consonance with the Philippines’ own policy on freedom of speech: We respect, protect and ensure the rights of  journalists to practise their profession unhampered by prior restraint and given full protection by applicable laws. While  the onslaught of climate change continues to challenge the global community, we celebrate the fact that in many parts of  the world, there has also been a significant increase in protected terrestrial and marine areas.
33.5 Two consecutive natural disasters tested the resiliency of our people: Typhoon Haiyan and a massive
7.2 magnitude earthquake that struck central Philippines in late 2013. Through our friends and colleagues in UNESCO,  we wish to thank all the governments, as well as humanitarian agencies, that extended their generous assistance and  support to our country’s massive rebuilding and rehabilitation efforts.
33.6 In February 2015, the Philippines and France adopted the Manila Call to Action on Climate Change to rally the  international community toward active engagement and participation in the twenty-first Conference of the Parties to the  United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (COP 21), which will take place here in Paris next month. The  call for climate action underlines the reality that while the developing countries have contributed least to climate change,  they are the ones that suffer most from the impact of climate change. Strengthening UNESCO bodies such as the  Intergovernmental Oceanographic Commission (IOC) responds to the call for effective and equitable climate action and  cooperation, especially between developed and developing countries.
33.7 The wisdom and prescience of our forefathers form the foundation of today’s knowledge society. The Philippines  supports initiatives to preserve and promote universal access to the world’s documentary heritage through the UNESCO  Memory of the World Programme. As a member of the World Heritage Committee, the Philippines reiterates its call for  conservation of sites with outstanding universal value by recognizing their contributions to poverty alleviation and  inclusive growth, and underscoring the contribution of culture to sustainable development. We also call for a more  representative and credible World Heritage List by building capacities of developing countries and expanding South- South cooperation. We strongly condemn the destruction of cultural heritage by extremist groups, and underscore the  necessity of safeguarding intangible cultural heritage as well. The Philippines seeks the support of UNESCO Member  States for its candidature to the Intergovernmental Committee for the Safeguarding of the Intangible Cultural Heritage in
33.8 Our President, Benigno S. Aquino III, extends his appreciation to UNESCO for being the Philippines’ constant  and steadfast partner in pursuing shared goals in education, science and technology, culture, and communication. We  humbly share the Philippines’ experience, following the straight path as a source of tangible lessons on how good  governance brings about far-reaching benefits in terms of fulfilling the dreams and aspirations of our people. Thank you  and good day. Long live UNESCO!
(34) The President (translation from the Spanish):   Thank you very much, Your Excellency, for your statement. I give the floor to His Excellency Mr Lytou Bouapao,  Vice-Minister for Education and Sport of the Lao People's Democratic Republic.
35.1 M. Bouapao (République démocratique populaire lao) :   Monsieur le Président de la Conférence générale, Monsieur le Président du Conseil exécutif, Mesdames et  Messieurs les chefs de délégation, Mesdames et Messieurs, au nom de la délégation de la République démocratique  populaire lao et en mon nom propre, permettez-moi de vous adresser mes chaleureuses félicitations, Monsieur le  Président, pour votre élection à la présidence de la 38e session de la Conférence générale de l’UNESCO. Mes  félicitations s’adressent également au Président du Conseil exécutif et à la Directrice générale, ainsi qu’à tous les  membres du groupe préparatoire ad hoc de la 38e session de la Conférence générale.
35.2 Monsieur le Président, depuis la 37e session de la Conférence générale de l’UNESCO, la situation politique et  économique mondiale est de plus en plus instable et complexe, pour la mise en application des divers projets prévus par  la dernière session de la Conférence générale d’une manière générale, et plus particulièrement pour la réalisation des  objectifs du Millénaire pour le développement et des objectifs de l’Education pour tous, objectifs qui sont prioritaires à  l’échelle mondiale du XXIe siècle. On constate autant d’opportunités que de défis inquiétants pour la reconstruction de la  paix durable, la stabilité politique et la coopération, éléments primordiaux pour briser le cercle vicieux de la pauvreté et  du sous-développement dans le monde. À cela, il faut ajouter des problèmes tels que le changement climatique, les  catastrophes naturelles, les épidémies, la crise économique et financière, qui ont frappé le monde et constituent un frein  au développement économique et social.
35.3 Afin de surmonter ces difficultés, le Gouvernement lao a déployé tous ses efforts dans la mise en œuvre du  VIIe Plan quinquennal de développement socioéconomique, de la culture, de la science et de la communication. La  réforme du système éducatif vise à promouvoir la qualité de l’enseignement et de l’apprentissage, ainsi que le plan  national d’action en faveur de l’éducation pour tous et le projet CapEFA appuyé par l’UNESCO en vue de réaliser les  objectifs 2 et 3 du Millénaire pour le développement. D’importants progrès ont pu être constatés : le taux de scolarisation  dans l’éducation primaire a atteint 98 %, et les indicateurs de l’égalité entre les sexes sont de 1,01 % dans  l’enseignement préscolaire, 0,94 % dans l’enseignement primaire et 0,86 % dans l’enseignement secondaire. Un autre  progrès à citer est le fait que le Laos a mené à bien, comme il l’a annoncé lors de la cérémonie du 28 août 2015, son  programme d’éducation non formelle au niveau du primaire à l’échelle nationale.
35.4 Monsieur le Président, les résultats obtenus sont le fruit des aides et des soutiens apportés, tant nationaux  qu’internationaux. Au nom de la République démocratique populaire lao et de la délégation lao, je voudrais exprimer mes  sincères remerciements et ma profonde gratitude à tous nos partenaires pour leur assistance. Malgré ces progrès, il  nous reste encore des améliorations à apporter en 2015, car la qualité de l’enseignement et de l’apprentissage restent  problématiques, les taux de redoublement et d’abandon dans le primaire sont encore élevés et le taux de réussite dans  l’enseignement primaire est seulement de 78 %.
36.5 Pour relever ces défis, le Gouvernement lao continuera à déployer les moyens nécessaires dans le cadre de la  poursuite du Plan quinquennal 2016-2020, du Plan stratégique pour 2025, de la Vision 2030 de l’éducation et du Cadre  d’action Éducation 2030 récemment adopté par l’Assemblée générale des Nations Unies et accueilli favorablement par  le Gouvernement lao, l’objectif étant d’améliorer la qualité de l’éducation, l’accès équitable, l’éducation inclusive,  l’apprentissage continu et l’éducation pour tous.
35.6 Monsieur le Président, dans le domaine de la sauvegarde et de la protection des ressources naturelles et de  l’environnement, le Gouvernement lao accorde une importance particulière à la politique de gestion durable des  ressources naturelles et de l’environnement à l’horizon 2030 et à sa mise en œuvre au cours de la période 2016-2025.  Ses principaux objectifs consistent à faire du Laos un pays de verdure, un pays propre et beau, en se fondant sur un  modèle de développement écologique, durable et moins sensible au changement climatique.
35.7 Le Gouvernement lao félicite et remercie l’UNESCO de l’attention constante qu’elle porte au Laos dans le cadre  du programme de suivi, d’évaluation, de sauvegarde et de protection, conformément aux recommandations du Comité  du patrimoine mondial, des deux sites naturels et culturels que sont les sites de Luang Prabang et de Vat Phou,  programme auquel le Laos a activement participé. La population lao va justement célébrer cette année le 20e  anniversaire de l’inscription de la ville de Luang Prabang au Patrimoine mondial de l’UNESCO. Au nom du  Gouvernement et de la population laos, je profite de cette occasion pour vous inviter, toutes et tous ici présents, à  assister à cet événement symbolique important qui aura lieu du 7 au 9 décembre 2015.
35.8 Outre les deux sites précédemment cités, le Laos a d’autres richesses qu’il souhaite partager avec l’humanité  en les inscrivant au Patrimoine mondial de l’UNESCO. Ce sont la Plaine des Jarres  et le site de Hin Namno, pour la  Liste du patrimoine mondial, et le khène, pour la Liste représentative du patrimoine culturel immatériel de l’humanité.  Ces dossiers sont actuellement en cours d’élaboration. Je vous remercie de votre attention.
36. The President:   Thank you. I give the floor now to His Excellency Milorad Scepanovic, Director-General for Multilateral Affairs  and Regional Cooperation of Montenegro.
37.1 Mr Scepanovic (Montenegro):   Distinguished Mr President of the General Conference, Mr Chair of the Executive Board, distinguished Madam  Director-General, respected delegates, Excellencies, ladies and gentlemen. It is with great pleasure that I address the
38th session of the General Conference on behalf of the Government of Montenegro in the year when we commemorate  the 70th anniversary of UNESCO. These 70 years of UNESCO have been of the utmost significance to all of us, and  there are some dates of our common and, at the same time, individual history that deserve to be particularly emphasized  today.
37.2 UNESCO’s presence in Montenegro is recognized in many aspects, and its positive impact is felt more than ever.  In the year when we honour the 70th anniversary of UNESCO, we would like to remind delegates of the solidarity and  assistance that the Organization provided in 1979 when the Montenegrin coast was struck by a devastating earthquake.  Kotor, which is a UNESCO world heritage site, was restored also due to the great assistance of UNESCO experts.  Preservation of cultural and natural heritage today seems even more difficult, and it is our joint task to improve  mechanisms for its protection and conservation, which are adapted to the new challenges. All these years we have been  working to create conditions for a dialogue among cultures, and nations, based on respect of common values. I use this  opportunity to express gratitude to the Director-General and her team, who managed to preserve the quality of work of  the Organization in the years marked by numerous difficulties.
37.3 With the adoption of the universal, ambitious and transformative 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development, we  have committed to resolving key challenges of today, such as peace-building and eradication of poverty, climate change,  and ensuring a healthy environment, with respect for fundamental human rights and freedom. We will give our full  contribution to its implementation and achievement of its crucial objectives – ensuring sustainable development and  human dignity for all.
37.4 Distinguished colleagues, at the last session of the Executive Board, Montenegro completed its four-year  mandate, which was a great opportunity for national institutions to participate in the creation and implementation of  UNESCO policies. This was an enormously valuable experience for Montenegro, bearing in mind that this was our first  membership in the governing body of UNESCO.
37.5 Montenegro celebrates the 70th anniversary of UNESCO by a number of festivities that will be organized this  month in the old royal capital Cetinje, a town that will soon be, we believe, inscribed on the World Heritage List of sites.  Cetinje is a town with a long history and tradition, whose values and influence exceed national and regional boundaries.  Protector of freedom, holder of a 600-year-old tradition of printing and publishing, promoter of literacy in the region of  southeast Europe, whose Europeanized ambience and spirit were created under extremely unfavourable historical and  economic circumstances.
37.6 Respected participants, culture is, and has to be, recognized as a method to connect. There are numerous  examples of joint action of countries in southeast Europe. I will underline the important project of the common nomination  of Stećci’s medieval tombstones, which four countries in the region – Montenegro, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Croatia, and  Serbia – nominated for the World Heritage List. Also, we have a new trilateral project of Montenegro, Italy and Croatia in  the nomination of “Venetian fortifications between the fifteenth and seventeenth centuries” for the World Heritage List.
37.7 I believe there is a consensus in this room that special attention has to be paid to education and science, which  have a rightful place in the post-2015 development agenda. Ensuring equitable and universal access to quality education  at all levels, as well as developing knowledge societies and scientific and technological innovation for achieving  sustainable development goals, have to be our common priority.
37.8 It is of crucial importance to undertake additional efforts to increase the number of children and adolescents with  equal access to quality education, as well as to develop policies aimed at improving the youth position in society. Active  engagement of young people will contribute to economic development of countries, but also influence prevention of
181  violent extremism and conflicts. Over the last decade there has been increasing global awareness of the impact of  conflict on education systems and the importance of education for children and youth as part of the post-conflict  reconciliation and peace-building process. By endorsing the Safe Schools Declaration, Member States can actively  engage in addressing the impact of violence and conflict on education, which presents urgent humanitarian,  developmental and wider social challenges. Education that promotes the rights and responsibilities of students,  especially participation and active citizenship, can provide long-term benefits for society.
37.9 Also, we warmly welcome UNESCO’s contribution in ensuring protection, promotion and fulfilment of freedom of  expression, freedom of press, and safety of journalists, as inseparable elements of a democratic society. Montenegro will  firmly continue to implement the values of UNESCO and promote its mission, thus contributing to regional and  international initiatives, important for preserving the culture of peace and dialogue, as our main goals. In conclusion, I  would like to once again reiterate Montenegro’s readiness to further improve cooperation with UNESCO and its Member  States in the forthcoming period towards promoting its values and principles in all areas of the Organization’s work. I  thank you.
(38) The President (translation from the Spanish):   Thank you very much for your statement. I give the floor to Mr Kim Yong II, Ambassador Extraordinary and  Plenipotentiary and Permanent Delegate of the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea.
39.1 M. Kim Yong Il (République populaire démocratique de Corée) :   Monsieur le Président de la Conférence générale, Monsieur le Président du Conseil exécutif, Madame la  Directrice générale, Excellences, Mesdames et Messieurs, je voudrais tout d’abord, au nom de ma délégation, exprimer  à M. Stanley Mutumba Simataa mes chaleureuses félicitations pour son élection à la présidence de cette 38e session de  la Conférence générale, qui se tient au moment où l’UNESCO célèbre 70 ans d’activité.
39.2 Monsieur le Président, 70 années se sont écoulées depuis que l’UNESCO a été fondée, reflétant le désir de  l’humanité de construire un monde pacifique par la promotion de la coopération internationale dans le domaine de  l’éducation et de la culture, 70 années durant lesquelles des progrès ont été marqués dans le développement  socioéconomique mondial tandis que les activités de l’UNESCO ne cessaient de s’étendre et de se renforcer.
39.3 Malgré cela, le chemin vers le monde pacifique et civilisé auquel l’humanité aspire tant rencontre toujours des  obstacles, tels que la confrontation persistante entre les pays, les forces et les civilisations, et les conflits armés  incessants de toutes sortes qui détruisent des institutions d’éducation et de culture et même de précieuses richesses  culturelles de l’humanité. La réalité actuelle exige de l’UNESCO qu’elle renforce encore son rôle afin de créer les  fondements de la paix à travers la coopération internationale dans les domaines de l’éducation, des sciences, de la  culture et de la communication.
39.4 Monsieur le Président, la présente Conférence générale est d’autant plus significative qu’elle discute des  moyens de mettre en œuvre les Objectifs de développement durable (ODD) à l’horizon 2030. Nous nous réjouissons que  ces objectifs aient été adoptés à l’unanimité par l’Assemblée générale des Nations Unies, en septembre dernier, et  renvoient à des aspects prioritaires de l’activité de l’UNESCO. À cet égard, je voudrais remercier la Directrice générale  pour les efforts considérables qu’elle a déployés en ce sens.
39.5 Le rôle de l’UNESCO est important, notamment, dans la réalisation de l’éducation inclusive, équitable et de  qualité pour tous, la promotion de l’apprentissage tout au long de la vie, la gestion durable de l’eau et de  l’assainissement, l’adoption de mesures d’urgence contre les changements climatiques et l’utilisation durable des  ressources maritimes. Pour atteindre les Objectifs de développement durable, il est primordial que l’UNESCO inscrive  son action en harmonie avec la Stratégie à moyen terme pour 2014-2021 (37 C/4) déjà adoptée. D’autre part,  conformément aux exigences d’une ère nouvelle, l’UNESCO devra promouvoir les réformes dans le sens de  l’amélioration de ses activités tout en préservant son autonomie et sa particularité.
39.6 L’éducation constitue toujours un domaine d’activité prioritaire de l’UNESCO pour la paix mondiale, la co- prospérité et le développement durable de l’humanité. Dans ce contexte, notre délégation réaffirme son soutien au  Cadre d’action Éducation 2030, qui a été adopté par acclamation à la réunion de haut niveau de la présente session de  la Conférence générale.
39.7 Il est également important de renforcer les capacités des pays en développement par la coopération Nord-Sud  et Sud-Sud pour le développement de la science et de la technique et le du transfert de technologies, la protection du  patrimoine culturel et l’accès universel à l’information et à la connaissance.
39.8 L’UNESCO devra également s’efforcer de favoriser la promotion de la diversité culturelle et la compréhension  mutuelle entre nations et régions à travers la collaboration et le dialogue interculturels et interreligieux.
39.9 Monsieur le Président, la République populaire démocratique de Corée, sous la direction du camarade  Kim Jong Un, dirigeant suprême, fait prévaloir la science et la technique dans tous les domaines et réalise de grands  progrès dans l’édification d’une puissance économique socialiste et d’une nation hautement civilisée. Des mesures  pratiques sont prises pour que tout le peuple acquière des compétences en matière de sciences et de techniques, et un  Palais des sciences et de la  technologie ainsi que des quartiers scientifiques ont été nouvellement construits à  Pyongyang au bénéfice des enseignants et des scientifiques.
39.10 Notre Gouvernement considère l’éducation comme une affaire patriotique perpétuelle pour la prospérité du pays  et ne ménage pas ses investissements dans ce secteur. Dans notre pays, un système d’enseignement obligatoire  universel gratuit de 11 ans est en place depuis des dizaines d’années et sa durée a été portée à 12 ans l’année dernière.
39.11 Notre Gouvernement continuera à participer activement, avec l’UNESCO et ses États membres, aux efforts  entrepris pour d’atteindre les Objectifs de développement durable post-2015. Je vous remercie pour votre attention.
(40) The President (translation from the Spanish):   Thank you very much for your statement. I now give the floor to His Excellency Mr Lovell Francis of the Ministry of  State for Education of Trinidad and Tobago.
41.1 Mr Francis (Trinidad and Tobago):    Mr President of the General Conference, Mr Chair of the Executive Board, Madam Director-General, honourable  delegates, Excellencies, the matters we have been discussing today are very close to my heart, as I am sure they are  with everyone here. So please permit me to go a bit off script. I am tremendously proud, tremendously humbled, to be  here representing my country, Trinidad and Tobago. I am also proud to bring greetings on behalf of our new Prime  Minister, the Honourable Dr Keith Rowley. I am happy to affirm the long relationship that has existed between UNESCO  and Trinidad and Tobago, as well as to affirm that it will continue far into the foreseeable future.
41.2 At home I am sometimes accused of the sin called “youthful exuberance”, so I should say that I am also very  enthusiastic about the mandate that UNESCO has adopted in terms of 2030, for the next 15 years. Why? Because if you  come from the Caribbean, as I do and as my colleague who just spoke a while ago from the British Virgin Islands does,  you understand in a very concrete way that education has been our salvation and, to understand that, one needs a  historical context. If you know anything about Caribbean history, and especially the modern history of the Caribbean, it is  quite clear that that history has very tragic overtones and undertones. Our modern history begins with invasion, with the  genocide, or in the case of Trinidad, the near-genocide, of our first peoples. It moved on from there into the exploitation  that came with African enslavement and Indian indenture. If you add on to all of that centuries of colonial domination, and  then in the twentieth century until now, decades of neo-colonial relationships, what you really have is a perfect template  for sustained underdevelopment as opposed to sustainable development, and that is our historical context.
41.3 How does one get beyond that? Well, it comes down to partnering with benevolent organizations, which is why  the Caribbean has had a very long relationship with UNESCO. But it also comes down to sound government policy. In  Trinidad and Tobago in particular, but also throughout the entire Caribbean, in the post-independence period in the mid- twentieth century there was a definite movement towards bringing education – which had once been the exclusive realm  of the well-to-do – to the people. In Trinidad and Tobago, what we did very quickly was to make agreements with the  dominant providers of education, which were the churches, so that they would become part of the State apparatus. We  also ensured that we embarked on a massive expansion in education, both at the primary and at the secondary levels.
41.4 Today, this continues, and if I would be so bold, it is perfectly aligned with UNESCO’s mantra of lifelong learning.  Today in Trinidad and Tobago we provide universal early childhood education. We provide universal primary education.  We also provide universal secondary education. Every young person in Trinidad and Tobago has these forms of learning  that are subsidized by the State. We are also working towards significantly raising the number of our citizens who can  access tertiary education, so that notion of lifelong learning is very much aligned with the idea that we have in Trinidad  and Tobago, where we call it seamless education, where we are attempting to weave a system that takes all young  people from age three to the rest of their lives as lifelong learners.
41.5 But of course, UNESCO’s mandate goes well beyond education, and it countenances issues of culture, youth  development, entrepreneurship, and I could go on ad infinitum. In this area, in Trinidad and Tobago we are also aligned  with the larger philosophies that preoccupy UNESCO. When I get back to Trinidad and Tobago, with some grace and  some luck next week, on Tuesday my nation will be celebrating the Hindu festival Diwali. It is not because my nation is  Hindu, but rather it is because a long time ago we decided that every single ethnic group, every single religious group in  our country, would be given its own space, would be celebrated and would be venerated. So whenever there is a  celebration, it is not one group, but as a nation, that we celebrate. So in Trinidad and Tobago we have diversity and we  also have inclusiveness. Now I am not standing here to say that my nation is perfect. We have our concerns. It is a  developmental process, it is a learning process, but I can affirm that when it comes to Trinidad and Tobago and  UNESCO, we are on the same page and this will continue. Thank you.
(42) The President (translation from the Spanish):   Thank you very much, Mr Minister, for your statement. I give the floor to His Excellency Mr Marten Kokk,  Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary and Permanent Delegate of Estonia to the OECD and UNESCO.
43.1 Mr Kokk (Estonia):   Mr President of the General Conference, Madam Director-General, Excellencies, distinguished delegates, firstly  Estonia would like to align itself with the European Union statement. The recently adopted 2030 Agenda for Sustainable  Development is universal and reflects many of UNESCO’s priorities. Estonia welcomes the fact that the Sustainable  Development Goals (SDGs) commit to realizing the human rights of all, to mainstreaming gender equality and the
183  empowerment of women across all goals and targets. These important values are among development cooperation  priorities for Estonia as well.
43.2 It is clear that in realizing the 2030 Agenda UNESCO can offer valuable support to Member States in capacity  development, policy advice and normative support. This is very important, but we would also like to underline the vital  importance of monitoring and innovative financing of the SDGs, combining different sources.
43.3 The World Education Forum 2015 in Incheon was a clear milestone to mark UNESCO’s success in positioning  education high on the new agenda. We believe that UNESCO’s role as the global coordinator of the education goal offers  excellent opportunities to further strengthen UNESCO’s position in the United Nations family. Estonia welcomes the  comprehensive Education 2030 Framework for Action that was adopted and launched in this House just a couple of days  ago. The Framework is universal and applicable to all Member States, but at the same time enables us to take account  of different national realities.
43.4 The education goal puts emphasis on lifelong learning, including higher education. Estonia fully supports the  proposal of a global convention on the recognition of higher education qualifications that will be examined during this  session of the General Conference. We consider this initiative to be very timely and relevant, as academic and  professional mobility is growing and the world of study and research is no longer limited by national boundaries. The  elaboration of this new normative instrument requires adequate human and financial resources. Our experts have  contributed to the preparation of the global convention and we are also ready to support the process financially.
43.5 Ladies and gentlemen, Estonia is a strong advocate of opportunities that information and communication  technology can provide for development. We are also convinced that freedom of expression and access to independent  media, including social media and Internet, are essential for fostering citizen participation in the 2030 Agenda. Everyone  needs to be able to speak without fear and to be freely informed about public affairs. UNESCO has been a strong  promoter of the safety of journalists but, as confirmed by the recent report on World Trends in Freedom of Expression  and Media Development, numerous threats still remain.
43.6 The armed conflicts and ongoing crises in the world have put to test UNESCO’s ability to respond to intentional  destruction of cultural heritage, including organized looting and trafficking. UNESCO has been strong and visible in its  global efforts to advocate for the protection of cultural heritage, to provide technical expertise, and to facilitate a  coordinated international response. We support the strategy for reinforcing UNESCO’s action in this field that builds on  strategic partnerships and allows necessary flexibility in changing circumstances.
43.7 Distinguished delegates, a lot has been done by UNESCO in order to increase efficiency and to reduce  administrative costs. This needs to be duly recognized. A lot remains to be done as well. We are looking forward to the  follow-up on the governance audit that will be discussed during this session of the General Conference. The audit also  highlighted a wide gap between the limited resources and the high expectations of the Member States in the framework  of the 2030 Agenda. A heavy reliance on extrabudgetary resources for meeting regular programme objectives and an  unsustainable workload for the reduced staff is a reality we face. Therefore, Estonia supports the zero nominal growth- plus (ZNG+) budget, even though that will not address all the issues, but the situation would be then more favourable,  especially for major programmes. So, since this is my third and last speech from this podium, I would like to thank you all  and wish you a successful continuation of the meeting. I wish all the best to the Secretariat and the Organization as a  whole. Thank you.
(44) The President (translation from the Spanish):   Thank you very much for your statement. I give the floor to His Excellency Mr Michael Forbes, Ambassador and  Permanent Delegate of Ireland to the OECD and UNESCO.
45.1 Mr Forbes (Ireland):   Mr President, Madam Director-General, Ministers, Ambassadors, ladies and gentlemen. First I would like to pay  tribute to the President of the General Conference who was elected, and the tribute it is to his great country. I would like  you to pass that on to him – he is not here at the moment. Ireland would like to associate itself with the statement of the  European Union, which will be made tomorrow morning.
45.2 UNESCO celebrates its 70th anniversary this year. We all agree on that. We also all agree that as we mark this  anniversary, it is clear that UNESCO’s mission is more relevant than ever. While the challenges are enormous and the  principles of the Organization are being attacked from many quarters, there is still reason for hope. The Sustainable  Development Goals (SDGs) of the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development, endorsed by all Members of the United  Nations on 25 September, are unique. They represent a contract for all of humanity. The world is no longer separated  between developed and developing. We all have goals to achieve together and the effort is truly universal for our  humanity, our planet and shared sustainable peace. Ireland was privileged to be a co-facilitator, along with Kenya, in  negotiating the 2030 Agenda in New York last summer. The constructive nature of those negotiations, which involved not  only all nations of the world, but also engaged stakeholders and NGOs, is a reason for hope for the future. We all have  our roles to play in achieving the 2030 Agenda. UNESCO is central to so much of that Agenda. Indeed, henceforth all of  the work of UNESCO will be seen through the prism of the 2030 Agenda.
45.3 Over the past number of years, UNESCO has reformed and refocused its efforts and methods of working,  making it now much better suited to take on the challenges of the 2030 Agenda, to make it much more fit for purpose
184  than it was at the beginning of this decade. So I take this opportunity to congratulate the Organization on that  achievement. Its tireless Director-General, Ms Irina Bokova, and its dedicated staff. I would like, on behalf of the  Government of Ireland today, to pay particular tribute to all of the staff of UNESCO who have struggled so hard over the  past five years.
45.4 The three pillars of UNESCO – education, science and culture – are fundamental to the achievement of the
2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development. More broadly, UNESCO’s ethical and cultural vocation provides the  sustainable thread to the achievement of the 2030 Agenda. And yet the principles of UNESCO, the principles of  humanism, remain under threat by self-appointed extremists who set themselves beyond the global discourse. This  expresses itself in many ways: the threat and even attacks on children, especially girls, going to school; the destruction  of the world’s cultural monuments as a weapon of war and enslavement; the setting of one religion or culture against  another; the undermining of freedom of speech directly and through the agents of that freedom, our journalists. An attack  on one culture is an attack on all civilization. An attack on one religion is an attack on all. An attack on one journalist is an  attack on the freedom of speech of us all. An attack on one girl going to school is an attack on all education and all  children.
45.5 UNESCO, through the leadership of its Director-General, Ms Irina Bokova, and in close cooperation with  Member States, is fighting back against these threats. The Organization, with its ethical principles and mandate, is  fighting back with the sustainable weapons of argument, reason, and even helping physically to rebuild what extremists  thought they had destroyed, thus restoring to communities their dignity and feeling of self-worth.
45.6 I am very pleased to remind delegates that the programme of Irish Aid, which provides humanitarian assistance  and supports long-term development on behalf of the Irish people, has consistently financed the UNESCO Global  Education Monitoring Report (GEM). Ireland would like to endorse the Executive Board’s recommendation to the General  Conference to establish a new international geoscience and geoparks programme, which would give UNESCO Global  Geoparks a formal, recognized label. To this end, the Irish National Commission for UNESCO confirms its support for the  transition of the three current Irish geoparks to this new label.
45.7 Ireland has two UNESCO Chairs in Education, one in University College Galway, which works directly and  indirectly with others to attack the forces of extremism from wherever they come. Our other Education Chair is about  disability and engaging people with disabilities in a full fitness programme. A lot of that is about removing fear that we  have. I believe that when we remove fear, we begin to remove prejudice and discrimination. On that note, I would like to  end my address and wish UNESCO well for the next two years. Thank you, Mr President.
(46) The President (translation from the Spanish):   Thank you very much, Mr Ambassador, for your statement. I now give the floor to His Excellency Mr Guillermo  Dighiero, Ambassador and Permanent Delegate of Uruguay to UNESCO.
(47.1) Mr Dighero (Uruguay) (translation from the Spanish):   Senior officials of UNESCO, ladies and gentlemen, recent scientific progress has brought about major changes in  modern societies and radically changed economic prospects and relations. The central element in this change results from the  possession of knowledge and technology, the central pillar of world economic competition. In the biotechnology field,  advances in molecular biology have had substantial impacts on the areas of agricultural output, health and the pharmaceutical  industry, through the creation of transgenic plants and animals, recombinant drugs and the sequencing of the human genome.  Knowledge of the genome will make possible highly predictive medicine, where genetics and gene therapy will play a vital part.  Also, the development of telecommunications has totally changed the global landscape in all its aspects, particularly in the  area of economics.
(47.2) Efforts to achieve integration into scientific and technological society are probably one of the greatest challenges for  developing countries. The central element in this competition is provided by human resources. Thus, those countries must  make a major effort to achieve universal education and develop science and technology. My Government’s view of education  is based on the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and on the various international agreements ratified by Uruguay. We  have adopted an education policy which seeks to promote justice, solidarity, social inclusion and peaceful coexistence. We  want education to produce people who are thoughtful and self-reliant and who will learn to live together in a fair and  sustainable society which can recognize the contributions of its various communities. This education system also seeks to  produce citizens who will be tolerant and respectful of differences and to encourage artistic, scientific and technological  creativity and innovation and the connection between manual and intellectual work. We have recently launched a campaign  and adopted a legal framework against harassment in educational institutions against people with different sexual orientations.
(47.3) Hence our commitment to undertake, together with other nations, the task of fulfilling the 17 goals which encompass  the dimensions of economic, social and environmental sustainability, recently adopted at the summit of Heads of State and  Government at the United Nations. We share them and will add our efforts to apply, coordinate, fund and assess the  Education 2030 Agenda. Uruguay plans to devote 6% of GDP to education by 2017, it has generalized its education system at  the primary level and it has launched a vigorous programme for early childhood. All children and teachers at the primary- and  secondary-school levels now have access to a personal computer, free of charge. The long-term goal is to ensure that 80% of  young people in a given age group will complete secondary education. As for science and technology, Uruguay has initiated a  major programme to develop the sector, to which the State has decided to devote 1% of GDP, and we expect to triple within
10 years the number of researchers, which stands at 2,000 for a population of 3.5 million. The goal is to develop an excellent  standard in basic science and its applications, in order to give more value added to our output by incorporating science and  technology. Culture is an essential pillar in building a world of peace, with diversity and pluralism, and Uruguay reaffirms its  commitment to move forward towards universal access to and enjoyment of the cultural rights considered as fundamental  human rights.
(47.4) Uruguay reaffirms its intention to move forward with reliable mechanisms for preventing the illicit trade in cultural  property. It is essential that we should ensure the production and enjoyment of cultures and their components on an equal  footing. For all these reasons, my Government reaffirms its strong political and institutional commitment to UNESCO and its  belief in its fundamental values. During his recent and very positive visit, President Tabaré Vázquez emphasized our country’s  commitment and expressed thanks for the support given by UNESCO to the Regional Bureau in Montevideo, as well as the  recent addition to the World Heritage List of the Fray Bentos Industrial Landscape and the establishment in Uruguay of the  Regional Centre for Groundwater Management for Latin America and the Caribbean. I wish to conclude by thanking UNESCO  for the very significant support it has provided to our country. Thank you very much.  Mr Simataa resumes the Chair.
48. The President:   Thank you very much, Your Excellency. Our next speaker is Her Excellency Ms Ruchira Kamboj, Ambassador  and Permanent Delegate of India to UNESCO. Your Excellency, you have the floor.
49.1 Ms Kamboj (India):   Mr President, distinguished Ambassadors and colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, it is an honour for me to  represent India at the general policy debate. It has always been a privilege for our Minister of Education to represent the  people of India at this global dialogue facilitated by the national policy debates at the General Conference of UNESCO.  My Minister is unable to attend the meeting due to extenuating and unforeseen circumstances, and on her behalf,  therefore, let me reiterate the importance that India attaches to its partnership with UNESCO. As one of the founding  Members of UNESCO, India has always taken great pride in UNESCO’s achievements over the last seven decades.
186  Indeed, as the world seeks to implement the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development, everyone needs to realize that  education, development of science and technology, and promotion and protection of cultures are central to the rapid and  balanced achievement of our development goals.
49.2 India recognizes that education can help provide answers to some of the greatest challenges of the twenty-first  century, which include poverty, inequality, conflict and threat to the climate and environment. It is this faith in the inherent  transformative potential of education that drives India's campaign for universalization of education, elementary education  through the path-breaking right-to-education legislation. The result has been quickly visible with a record 199 million  children attending elementary schools. India also has the world’s largest school meal programme spread over 1.2 million  schools. Besides access, equal importance has also been accorded to equity in terms of gender, disability or geography  and to quality of education.
49.3 We should be especially mindful in the global discourse on education that the less advantaged, the excluded,  the marginalized and those with disabilities are provided the conditions necessary for them to enjoy universal human  rights and fundamental freedoms. India attaches great importance to the use of information and communication  technology (ICT) in education, environment education and multilingualism. Skills development through technical and  vocational education is another priority. Furthering the universalization of education to the secondary stage is a goal that  India would like to take up in the near future. In all these, we look forward to collaboration among countries through the  effective forum of UNESCO. As a first step, a conference of South Asian Cooperation for Regional Cooperation (SAARC)  countries was organized successfully in October, 2015 under the auspices of UNESCO in New Delhi.
49.4 As the international community looks towards implementing the 2030 Agenda, it has recognized that education  can play a decisive role in fostering a sense of shared responsibility and in bringing about fundamental changes in how  we coexist with each other and our planet. The successful adoption of the Education 2030 Framework for Action is  abundant testimony to this. This sense of collective duty has also been behind our support for the New Delhi-based  Mahatma Gandhi Institute of Education for Peace and Sustainable Development, a UNESCO category 1 institute. Our  task now is to work with all educational stakeholders to ensure that in its implementation, Education 2030 fulfils its  promise, while acknowledging the varied and unique national contexts and socio-economic diversities.
49.5 Ladies and gentlemen, India strongly believes that oceans are central to sustainable development and are a part  of our common heritage. It is this belief that guides our support for the Intergovernmental Oceanographic Commission  (IOC) and the multinational, multidisciplinary expedition in the Indian Ocean under the banner of the Second International  Indian Ocean Expedition (IIOE-2). India has an emotional attachment to IIOE: the first IIOE laid the foundation for  modern multidisciplinary oceanographic research in India, and culminated in the establishment of the National Institute of  Oceanography in Goa. We therefore look forward to the planned launch of IIOE-2 at Goa, India, in December 2015, to  commemorate the 50th anniversary of the IIOE Expedition and of the National Institute of Oceanography in Goa.
49.6 Over the years, we have worked together with UNESCO in our common endeavour to nourish and nurture,  protect and promote the cultural heritage of the world. The World Heritage Convention is the best known of UNESCO’s  standard-setting instruments in any field, and over the years has established for itself a brand name and an image. We  have the privilege in India of hosting a UNESCO category 2 centre at Dehradun in the field of natural heritage. Through  this, we offer our services in strengthening capacities in the management and protection of world heritage, leading to a  more efficient overall management of systems in keeping with the letter and spirit of the World Heritage Convention.
49.7 Ladies and gentlemen, we, as founding members, are deeply committed to the ideals and objectives of  UNESCO. Later this month, indeed next week, our Organization will complete 70 years of eventful and impactful  existence. The principles that brought the community of nations together in 1945 are as valid and relevant today as they  were then. Mr President and distinguished delegates, I wish all success to the work of the 38th session of the UNESCO  General Conference and look forward to the important exchanges that follow. Thank you very much.
50. The President:   Thank you very much, Your Excellency. I now have the distinct pleasure and honour to invite His Excellency  Mr Hao Ping, the Vice Minister of Education of China. Your Excellency, you now have the floor, Sir.
(51.1) Mr Hao (China) (translation from the Chinese):   Respected President of the General Conference, respected Madam Director-General, respected Chair of the  Executive Board, distinguished Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, please allow me to congratulate Mr. Stanley  Simataa of Namibia on his election as the President of the 38th session of the General Conference. I would also like to thank  the many speakers in the past two days who commended my work as the President of the 37th session of the General  Conference.
(51.2) In the seven decades since its founding, UNESCO has upheld its firm conviction in the mission of building the  defences of peace in the minds of people, by promoting education for all, which has increased the educated population in the  world by hundreds of millions; by advancing scientific research to build the knowledge base in response to climate change,  Internet security and rapid development in emerging new fields; by protecting world natural and cultural heritage, intangible  cultural heritage and documentary heritage to enrich cultural diversity and safeguard lasting peace through remembering  history, sometimes painful lessons learned from human history. We should always keep in mind the mission and the original  intention of the founding of the Organization when forwarding the cause and reform of UNESCO. Reform should be planned  and implemented with a holistic long-term view. It should not be misused for promoting selfish interests. And it should be  based on comprehensive consensus. When faced with challenges to humanity, countries in the world have become members  of a common destiny community with interwoven interests. No country can single-handedly solve the many global problems. It  is imperative to deepen international cooperation. China highly commends the Organization for its active participation in  drafting the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development, which as Chinese President Xi Jinping pointed out in his speech at the  United Nations summit for the adoption of the post-2015 development agenda, are high-standard work orders as well as  solemn undertakings. China expects UNESCO to play a more significant role in implementing the 2030 Agenda.
(51.3) Inclusive, equitable and quality education is a powerful weapon for eliminating ignorance and discrimination. It is also  a basic driving force for social and economic development. As a champion country of the Global Education First Initiative  (GEFI), China gives priority to education, abides by the commitment to support educational development in developing  countries, and emphasizes that education of girls and women is the key to universal improvement of education of the  population. Not long ago, while attending the High-level Event on Global Education First Initiative, Ms Peng Liyuan, UNESCO  Special Envoy for the Advancement of Girls’ and Women’s Education, called upon all countries to increase their effort to  provide quality education to girls. To this end, China will fund the establishment of a UNESCO Prize for Girls’ and Women’s  Education, to enable more girls to have access to education at the earliest possible opportunity. China is supportive to  international cooperation in the fields of marine science, fresh water safety, biodiversity conservation and disaster mitigation.  China would like to see the Organization pioneer new fields and research new problems in order to lead the Member States to  tackle climate change and environmental problems. UNESCO is an important forum for preserving cultural diversity and  promoting dialogue of civilizations by encouraging defusing confrontation with dialogue of civilizations and by advocating  winning for all with intercultural exchanges and mutual learning.
(51.4) Ladies and gentlemen, the Chinese Government will increase its support to UNESCO. To safeguard world peace for  creating a better future and to advocate a new type of international relationship with cooperation and winning for all at its core,  UNESCO is expected to continue to uphold the mission inscribed 70 years ago by its founders and cherish the international  order established on the basis of the United Nations Charter and with a consistent view of history. China will actively promote  the development of equitable and quality education, and endorse the strategy of Priority Africa and the application of ICT in  improving education quality. China supports the protection of cultural and natural heritage and intangible cultural heritage. I  praise highly the speech made by H.E. President Nursultan Nazarbayev. China is in support of reopening the Silk Road  Project and completing the UNESCO Silk Road Online Platform which is under construction. China would like to see growth of  the Creative Cities Network to promote dialogue among civilizations. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Confucius said that  people at the age of 70 can follow the dictates of their hearts because their desire no longer oversteps the boundaries of right.  After the twists and turns of the past seven decades, we hope that UNESCO will continue to uphold the mission of building the  defences of peace in the minds of men and women and strive to realize the goals of 2030 Agenda for Sustainable  Development. Thank you.
52. The President:   Thank you very much, Your Excellency. And once again we thank you wholeheartedly for the enormous  contributions you have made over the past two years to our Organization, and the assurances that you have given to  continue supporting UNESCO beyond your tenure. Once again, thank you very much, Sir. Our next speaker is His  Excellency, Mr Eric Tiaré, Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary to France, Permanent Delegate of Burkina  Faso to UNESCO. Your Excellency, you now have the floor.
53.1 M. Tiaré (Burkina Faso) :   Monsieur le Président de la Conférence générale, Monsieur le Président du Conseil exécutif, Madame la  Directrice générale, Mesdames et Messieurs les chefs de délégation, permettez-moi tout d’abord, Monsieur le Président,  de vous adresser les chaleureuses félicitations de la délégation du Burkina Faso pour votre élection à la présidence de  la 38e session et de vous assurer de notre soutien pour le succès de votre présidence.
53.2 Mesdames et Messieurs, l’UNESCO célèbre cette année ses 70 ans d’existence, 70 ans au cours desquels elle  a contribué du mieux qu’elle pouvait à la construction d’un monde meilleur. Malheureusement, notre Conférence se tient  à un moment où l’actualité internationale reste fortement dominée par la montée du terrorisme et de l’extrémisme violent  et par de multiples crises sociopolitiques qui embrasent tous les secteurs du développement et ont des impacts négatifs  sur la vie individuelle et collective. Face à ces drames, le Burkina Faso appelle tous les États membres, nantis ou non, à  s’engager plus fortement aux côtés de l’UNESCO pour lui permettre de continuer de travailler à assurer la mise en  œuvre de ses objectifs pour un monde de paix.
53.3 L’importante contribution de l’UNESCO dans l’adoption du Programme de dévéloppement durable à l’horizon
2030 est saluée avec force par le Burkina Faso. Aussi, je saisis cette occasion pour féliciter la Directrice générale, Mme  Irina Bokova, pour le rôle particulier et déterminant qu’elle a joué dans l’adoption du Programme 2030 et, d’une manière  générale, pour son leadership à la tête de notre Organisation.
53.4 Notre Conférence a lieu à quelques semaines de la tenue, ici à Paris, de la 21e Conférence des Parties à la  Convention-cadre des Nations Unies sur les changements climatiques, et le Burkina Faso nourrit l’espoir que les  négociations aboutiront enfin à la conclusion d’un accord juridiquement contraignant afin de sauver notre planète  menacée.
53.5 Monsieur le Président, Mesdames et Messieurs, en décrétant 2015-2024 « Décennie internationale des  personnes d’ascendance africaine », l’UNESCO veut promouvoir de nouvelles perspectives sur l’histoire de l’Afrique et  encourager la rénovation de l’enseignement de l’histoire africaine dans les États membres, à travers son projet intitulé  « Utilisation pédagogique de l’Histoire générale de l’Afrique ». À ce sujet, et pour le dernier volume qui reste à réaliser, le  Burkina Faso encourage l’UNESCO à poursuivre sa stratégie de mobilisation des ressources et félicite le Groupe Afrique  de l’UNESCO pour les initiatives qu’il envisage de prendre en vue de faire contribuer tous les États africains à sa  réalisation.
53.6 S’agissant de l’éducation, le Burkina Faso se réjouit des engagements renouvelés pris par les Nations Unies en  matière d’éducation dans l’agenda post-2015 et encourage l’UNESCO à jouer pleinement son rôle de leadership pour la  réalisation des objectifs de l’Éducation pour tous (EPT) Dans ce domaine, le Gouvernement burkinabè a pris des  dispositions pour renforcer les capacités des enseignants, des décideurs et des organisations de la société civile en  matière de civisme, de bonne gouvernance, de systématisation des faits culturels et de leur transposition dans le  dispositif éducatif. En ce qui concerne particulièrement l’éducation des filles, le Gouvernement du Burkina Faso se  félicite de la décision du Conseil exécutif de reconduire le Centre international pour l’éducation des filles et des femmes  en Afrique de l’Union africaine, et recommande une synergie d’action entre l’UNESCO et la Commission de l’Union  africaine en vue de rendre le centre plus opérationnel. Il salue, en outre, l’engagement de l’UNESCO dans la mise en  œuvre de la priorité Egalité des genres et se félicite des résultats déjà obtenus au cours de l’exercice biennal dans le  cadre de l’ensemble des programmes relatifs à l’éducation.
53.7 En ce qui concerne la culture, ma délégation félicite l’UNESCO et la Directrice générale, ainsi que tout le  personnel, pour les actions menées contre la destruction du patrimoine culturel, y compris religieux, et pour la  préservation des biens et expressions culturels, notamment pour le soutien apporté à la République sœur du Mali dans  la reconstruction des mausolées de Tombouctou, classés « patrimoine de l’humanité ». Le Burkina Faso souscrit  également à la proposition de renforcement du rôle des musées dans la société et aux mesures et actions pour la  protection, la promotion et la transmission du patrimoine culturel. Alors que l’on célèbre cette année le 10e anniversaire  de la Convention de 2005 de l’UNESCO sur la protection et la promotion de la diversité des expressions culturelles, le  Burkina Faso espère que les dispositions de cette convention concernant le traitement préférentiel pour les pays du Sud  seront mises en œuvre. Puisque j’aborde la question de la culture, permettez-moi de saisir cette occasion pour solliciter  le soutien de tous les États parties à la Convention à la candidature du Burkina Faso au Comité du patrimoine mondial  lors de l’Assemblée générale des Etats parties qui aura lieu du 18 au 20 novembre prochain.
53.8 En ce qui concerne la culture de la paix et la lutte contre le terrorisme, le Burkina Faso a bénéficié en 2014-2015  du projet du Centre des Nations Unies pour la lutte contre le terrorisme (UNCCT)-UNESCO concernant l’éducation à la  paix, qui a permis, en collaboration avec le Bureau régional multisectoriel de Dakar, de former et de sensibiliser
50 000 personnes dans les régions du Sahel et du Centre. Dans le contexte actuel, il est évidemment souhaitable que  les expériences et les bonnes pratiques soient capitalisées et partagées avec les autres pays de la sous-région.
53.9 Enfin, je voudrais appeler au respect de la liberté d’expression et de la liberté de la presse, mises à rude  épreuve dans mon pays lors de la tentative de coup d’État de septembre dernier, qui a occasionné de nombreuses  violences contre des journalistes et des manifestations de haine à l’endroit des médias. Je saisis l’occasion pour  exprimer la gratitude du peuple et du Gouvernement du Burkina Faso à tous ceux qui ont permis de faire échec à cette  déstabilisation et de remettre en selle les institutions de la transition qui préparent sereinement les élections  présidentielles et législatives du 29 novembre prochain.
53.10 Pour conclure, le Burkina Faso réaffirme son attachement aux valeurs et aux idéaux de l’UNESCO et sa  disposition à travailler avec elle pour faire advenir un monde épris de paix et de justice. I thank you.
54. The President:   Thank you very much Your Excellency. Our next speaker is His Excellency Mr Adrian Cioroianu, Ambassador  and Permanent Delegate of Romania to UNESCO. Your Excellency, you have the floor.
55.1 M. Cioroianu (Roumanie) :   Merci beaucoup. Monsieur le Président de la Conférence générale, Monsieur le Président du Conseil exécutif,  Excellences, Mesdames et Messieurs, j'ai le privilège de m'adresser à vous en tant qu’Ambassadeur, délégué
189  permanent de la Roumanie auprès de l’UNESCO et ancien Ministre des affaires étrangères dans le contexte très spécial  de l'anniversaire des 70 ans de l'UNESCO. Je souhaite réaffirmer le profond attachement de la Roumanie aux valeurs et  à la mission de cette organisation-clé du système des Nations Unies et l’espoir qu'ensemble, nous réussirons à  dépasser les difficultés présentes et futures.
55.2 Cette année est d'autant plus spéciale qu’elle est marquée par l'adoption de documents-cadres tels que le  Programme de développement durable à l’horizon 2030 et le Cadre d'action Éducation 2030. Sans parler des synergies  en cours autour de la 21e Conférence des Parties à la Convention-cadre des Nations Unies sur les changements  climatiques (COP21), ou d'autres initiatives à longue portée, telles que la coalition internationale et la stratégie de  renforcement de l’action de l’UNESCO en matière de protection du patrimoine culturel et de promotion du pluralisme  culturel en cas de conflit armé, ou l'éducation en tant qu'instrument de promotion de la tolérance et de lutte contre  l’extrémisme violent.
55.3 Mesdames et Messieurs, l’éducation reste l’un des domaines les plus dynamiques, et la réforme du système  éducatif en Roumanie ainsi que la législation qui sert de base à cette réforme tiennent compte des nouveaux impératifs  pour l’avenir et intègrent l’objectif d’une éducation pour tous, avec un accent particulier sur l’amélioration de la qualité.  C’est dans ce contexte qu’en Roumanie, nous avons ajouté à l’offre générale de formation des programmes et des  projets en faveur des groupes défavorisés, un programme de relance de l’enseignement rural ainsi que d’autres  programmes de soutien. Notre principal souci est d’harmoniser la vision et les applications en matière d’éducation  permanente de façon à organiser l’ensemble des mesures autour de quelques principes générateurs de progrès.
55.4 Mesdames et Messieurs, la continuité de ces préoccupations conduit à la nécessité d’une vision intégrée  concernant la recherche scientifique comme moteur du développement durable. À cet égard, le Gouvernement de la  Roumanie a approuvé une stratégie nationale pour la recherche, le développement et l’innovation 2014-2020, qui inclut  les directions de recherche promues par l’UNESCO. En même temps, cette stratégie assure un support durable aux  programmes spéciaux de l’UNESCO – le Programme sur l’Homme et la biosphère (MAB), la bioéthique, le Programme  Gestion des transformations sociales (MOST) et l’océanographie. La Roumanie salue l’inscription à l’ordre du jour de la  Conférence générale d’un point sur les statuts du Programme international pour les géosciences et les géoparcs. Elle  continuera, grâce à la contribution d’une université prestigieuse – l’Université de Bucarest – et de ses spécialistes, à  apporter son expertise et son soutien à ce nouveau cadre.
55.5 Mesdames, Messieurs, nous trouvons aussi au programme de la Conférence générale la préoccupation de  l’UNESCO pour la promotion de valeurs authentiques. Les instruments de l’UNESCO pour la protection du patrimoine  mondial naturel et culturel sont devenus de véritables repères dans les politiques et les stratégies culturelles nationales  et régionales. La Roumanie a toujours été un partisan fidèle de l’actualisation de la Liste du patrimoine mondial,  soulignant la nécessité que celle-ci soit équilibrée, représentative et crédible. Nous considérons qu’il est nécessaire que  les sites déjà inscrits sur la Liste soient protégés par un système de mesures directement applicables en cas d’urgence.
55.6 Mesdames et Messieurs, l’année prochaine, la Roumanie fêtera les 60 ans de son adhésion à l’UNESCO  comme membre de plein droit. Dans le contexte de la célébration des 70 ans de l’UNESCO, j’ai le plaisir de vous  annoncer que le Président de la Roumanie, M. Klaus Iohannis, a décoré hier des institutions culturelles et unions de  création comptant plusieurs artistes et intellectuels, ainsi que le Collège juridique franco-roumain d’études européennes,  pour leur contribution à des activités correspondant à l’agenda de l’UNESCO.
55.7 En guise de conclusion, j’aimerais souligner le rôle irremplaçable de l’UNESCO qui a le mérite de nous rappeler,  en permanence, les vertus d’une culture de la paix. Je vous remercie.
56. The President:   Thank you very much Your Excellency. Ladies and gentlemen, we have thus concluded our work for this  morning. The plenary will reconvene this afternoon as usual, at 3 o’clock sharp. I wish you all a pleasant lunch. This  meeting is now adjourned.  The meeting rose at 1.15 p.m.  La séance est levée à 13 h 15   Se levanta la sesión a las 13.15  Заседание закрывается в 13.15  الظهربعد  ١,١٥رفعت اسلسة يف الساعة    会议于 13 时 15 分结束