1.1 The President:    Good morning, honourable ministers, Excellencies, ladies and gentlemen. As I declare open the tenth plenary  meeting, I wish to inform you that there will be a plenary meeting this afternoon at 5.30 p.m. to hear the addresses from  His Excellency, Mr Evo Morales, President of the Plurinational State of Bolivia, and His Excellency, Jose Carlos de  Almeida Fonseca, President of the Republic of Cabo Verde. May I request that you be in your seats by 5.15 p.m. sharp  so that we can welcome these distinguished and honourable guests. Thank you in advance for your cooperation in this  regard.
1.2 Ladies and gentlemen, honourable heads of delegations, we have all listened carefully to almost 200  statements that have been made over the past week during the course of the general policy debate. Members of the  Secretariat of UNESCO have paid close attention to Member States’ remarks including recommendations that have been  made. The time has now come for the Director-General to reply to the general policy debate. I now have the pleasure of  giving the floor to the Director-General for her reply. Madam Director-General, you have the floor.
2.1 The Director-General:   Thank you very much, Mr President of the General Conference, Excellencies, Ministers, ladies and gentlemen. I  wish to thank all heads of State and government, all ministers, all representatives of UNESCO Member States. I am  grateful for the renewed commitment to UNESCO by all of you in the year when we celebrate the Organization’s 70th  anniversary. You, Mr President, spoke so eloquently of UNESCO’s importance in your opening speech after your  election as President of the General Conference. You said: “The historic narrative of a humane world order characterized  by lasting peace has never been as relevant and as profound as it is today, when the world and humankind continue to  experience unending conflicts and natural disasters”.
2.2 France spoke of the “spirit of London” that created UNESCO in 1945 and called for the same ambition today.  From across the world we have the call for stronger cooperation against challenges. We heard the appeal for a more  robust and effective international order. We heard a resounding call for unity, for humanity to act as one. And I believe all  of you agree. Challenges are multiple and complex and respect no borders. There is no room for unilateralism. No place  for exclusion. No society stands alone today. We all stand together. I see this as the spirit of this general policy debate:  resolution, solidarity, renewal; to stand together, to move forward together.
2.3 We heard this from representatives of societies undergoing deep social transformation, economic pressures.  We heard this from Myanmar, leading a “historic transition”. We heard this from Liberia, resilient, ever more determined  after the end of the Ebola virus crisis. We heard this from Sri Lanka, “rebuilding after 30 years of conflict”. We heard from  the Maldives, when the distinguished delegate spoke for all small island developing States. “We, small States, do not  want to be defined only by our vulnerabilities. We are ready to be part of the solution” - this was a message from the  Prime Minister of the Cook Islands.
2.4 We heard from States determined to respond to climate change, to protect biodiversity, to deepen the  sustainability of the ocean. All of you agreed, we are living a historic moment. Morocco was clear: we are standing at a  historical political and economic turning point. Pakistan was equally clear: the world stands at a critical juncture facing  serious issues and challenges including xenophobia, illiteracy, inequality, gender issues and climate change. Humanity  and the planet stand at a crossroads. This was your clear message. And allow me here to quote the Secretary-General  of the United Nations, Mr Ban Ki-moon when he said: “We don’t have any ‘Plan B’ because we don’t have any ‘Planet  B’”. So ladies and gentlemen, I believe we must act now. Change is racing across the world and this cannot be undone.
2.5 Bangladesh put it eloquently: “The world is ever-changing. Building on experience, we must respond to the  demands of new situations while remaining true to our long-term commitments”. I see this as our main goal – to embrace  change on the basis of principles and commitments, to shape it in positive directions for all societies globally. But to  embrace change, we have to craft a future that is more just, inclusive, and sustainable for every woman and man. We  have to respect the rights and dignity of every woman and man. I believe this is the bottom line.
2.6 His Royal Highness Crown Prince Haakon of Norway spoke precisely about this when he said: “Every human  being has the right to live a dignified life. And it means having a common responsibility to strengthen the dignity of others  and ultimately, our own”. I believe, ladies and gentlemen, this will be the measure of the success of the 2030 Agenda for  Sustainable Development. Many of you touched upon the Millennium Development Goals (MDGs), which were a great  humanistic agenda, but the 2030 Agenda is bolder, more universal, more transformative. This new Agenda answers the  question all societies are asking today: what world do we want to live in? The answer, I believe, is clear. A world of  solidarity, equality, tolerance, a world where no one is left behind. UNESCO stands at the heart of this vision. And all of  you emphasized this.
2.7 Lithuania was clear: “UNESCO’s achievement: the role of culture, education, human rights, and women  empowerment was clearly highlighted in the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development”. I would like to thank all of you  for your leadership. I understand the responsibilities involved, and I am determined for UNESCO to lead support to  States.
2.8 All of you highlighted the importance of the forthcoming session of the Conference of Parties to the United  Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change, COP 21. Here again, the message was clear. The 2030 Agenda  and tackling climate change are interlinked. They are the same agenda. Poverty eradication cannot be separated from  the environment. Peace cannot be delinked from the sustainability of the planet. This was the message of the 2012  United Nations Conference on Sustainable Development, RIO+20 held in Rio de Janeiro, Brazil. All societies are sending  this same message today.
2.9 UNESCO will continue to support States in every way to prepare the United Nations Climate Change  Conference and the implementation of its decisions. This has included the Business and Climate Summit in May at  UNESCO Headquarters, the World Oceans Day event on 8 June, with Monaco, Sweden, France, Belgium and Norway,  and the International Scientific Conference on Our Common Future under Climate Change, in July, held here at  UNESCO Headquarters, including sessions on water and climate change.
2.10 UNESCO is accelerating in the run-up to COP 21: decision-taking, with thematic days on 3 and 4 December on  the Ocean and Climate Platform and the Global Ocean Forum, with the International Conference on Water, Megacities  and Global Changes at UNESCO, with an event on climate change and mountains, and side events on key findings of  the IPCC Fifth Assessment Report, and the pivotal role of water in climate change adaptation and mitigation. The  forthcoming conference on indigenous peoples and climate change, organized with France, is another key UNESCO  contribution.
2.11 The lessons of the Millennium Development Goals (MDGs) are clear. Success requires ownership. Ownership  by societies, by governments, taking forward policies they have crafted in strategies they have framed. Ownership must  be the leitmotif of the 2030 Agenda. Ownership means capacities. Every society and government must have the ability to  achieve the goals it has set for itself. Every woman and man must have the ability to become everything they wish. Here  again, capacities are key. We heard this loud and clear from small island developing States in the Pacific, in the Indian  Ocean, in the Caribbean. Capacities are the way forward – capacities in disaster risk reduction and early warning,  capacities in education for sustainable development, capacities across the sciences, capacities to preserve biodiversity,  capacities to set the right education strategies, and capacities to protect tangible and intangible heritage.
2.12 Let me underline the importance of the action plan for small island developing States. I will present to Member  States next spring during the meeting of the Executive Board. The action plan will cover the full range of UNESCO’s  mandate – from information and communication technology (ICT) in education and safeguarding cultural heritage, to  ocean science and strengthening disaster risk reduction and resilience. Saint Vincent and the Grenadines put it clearly:  “We cannot wait for more disasters to strike”. I agree fully. Capacities, capacities, capacities. This is, I believe, the name  of the game. This begins with education – capacities for education systems, training for teachers, skills for learners.
2.13 The distinguished delegate of Thailand spoke for all when he said: “Education is a key tool to achieve security,  prosperity, sustainability and resilient democracy”. Not just any education – quality education, education for relevant  skills, for decent jobs, education for new ways of thinking and acting, for sustainability, for global citizenship, education in  tune with the twenty-first century. In this respect, let me underline the importance of the launch of UNESCO’s latest  publication, Rethinking education: towards a global common good? – this will be a reference for dialogue and debate.
2.14 Across the world, States are building UNESCO’s holistic vision of education into national strategies. After the  adoption of the important Action Plan, an important decision of the Incheon World Education Forum 2015. Zambia laid  emphasis on its comprehensive education policy. Peru presented the comprehensive strategy guiding the country’s  historic educational reform. Sierra Leone spoke of the central role of education in the post-Ebola recovery and transition  programme – and UNESCO stands ready to support the government as it moves forward.
2.15 Every State, every government, expressed their determination to leave no one behind, to reach all girls and  women, to bring in the most disadvantaged. Let me highlight here the importance of the Gender Summary of the  Education for All Global Monitoring Report 2015, launched on 4 November on the sidelines of this General Conference.  This is to highlight once again the importance of girls’ education and gender priority for UNESCO. This was an  opportunity to share the commitment of governments across the world, from Paraguay to Niger. As Ethiopia stated:  “Empowering women and girls, ensuring their sexual and reproductive health and human rights is essential to an  inclusive society”.
2.16 I thank all of you for the resounding support to UNESCO’s action to advance Global Priority Gender Equality,  through education, across all areas of UNESCO’s competence. You are making the global priority your own – including,  for instance, through the Girls’ Right to Education programme, funded by the Malala Funds-in-Trust established in  UNESCO by the Government of Pakistan.
2.17 The adoption of the Education 2030 Framework for Action is a milestone in this General Conference, attended  by some 70 Ministers. The Education 2030 Framework for Action sets bold benchmarks and it is indeed a historic  moment. Twelve years of free education for all. Qualified and duly trained teachers in every classroom. A strong focus on  technical and vocational education and training (TVET), on quality, on girls’ education. This calls for a new emphasis on  monitoring – the role of the UNESCO Institute for Statistics (UIS) will be essential, along with the Global Monitoring  Report. This calls for new funding, to bridge the annual $40 billion funding gap, to invest where needs are most acute. I  would like to thank all of you for this ground-breaking commitment, along with all partners, across the United Nations  system, the Global Partnership for Education (GPE), as well as civil society, Education International, and the private  sector. Because I do believe partnership is the way forward.
2.18 This same spirit underpinned the inaugural ceremony of the UNESCO-Japan Prize on Education for Sustainable  Development, with the Minister of Education, Culture, Sports, Science and Technology of Japan. This Prize was awarded
260  to three outstanding projects – from El Salvador and Guatemala, Indonesia, and Germany – empowering individuals and  local communities, connecting the social, economic and environmental dimensions of sustainable development.
2.19 Strengthening capacities and capabilities stood at the heart of the meeting on technical and vocational  education and training (TVET) within the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development. I would like to thank Sweden and  the friends of TVET and appeal to all States to join this initiative. Let me express gratitude also to His Highness Sheikh  Hamdan bin Rashid Al Maktoum, for the new agreement on curriculum design and development in the Arab region.
2.20 On 6 November, I hosted the third Meeting on UNESCO’s Capacity Building for Education for All programme –  CapEFA. This brought States and donors together, to share experience with capacity building at every level – for  systems and ministries, for teachers, in curriculum design, for gender equality. I call once again for greater support to this  flagship programme, which is one of the big successes of the Organization. In this respect, let me thank Saudi Arabia for  the new agreement I signed last week to support the UNESCO International Task Force on Teachers for Education for  All.
2.21 Building capacities guides all UNESCO’s action in the sciences. Knowledge is essential to every society today.  Creating knowledge, sharing knowledge and applying knowledge are critical to eradicate poverty, to tackle the  consequences of climate change and at the end of the day, to achieve all the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) on  the 2030 Agenda. This idea underpins the Technology Facilitation Mechanism, launched on 26 September, with  UNESCO as a convening United Nations agency during the General Assembly session in New York.
2.22 Nigeria spoke for many in emphasizing: “Science, technology and innovation are main pillars of the agenda for  change”. This spirit guides UNESCO’s support to governments in bolstering science, technology and innovation policies,  in advancing science education, especially science, technology, engineering and mathematics (STEM), especially for  girls, as noted by many of you. The event on 7 November on STEM Education for Adolescent Girls was extremely  important, to advance gender equality, chaired by Ms Hayat Sindi, UNESCO Goodwill Ambassador and member of the  Scientific Advisory Board of the Secretary-General of the United Nations.
2.23 The outstanding role of the Intergovernmental Oceanographic Commission (IOC) was underlined by many of  you, ladies and gentlemen, for ocean science, for ocean observation, for early warning systems. This is why I am  determined to continue to enhance support across the board to IOC. I am also grateful to the support expressed to  UNESCO’s “water family”, led by the International Hydrological Programme (IHP). UNESCO’s action for water  governance, for water diplomacy, has never been as important. I welcome the support also expressed to the new Man  and the Biosphere (MAB) Programme Strategy, and for the importance of biosphere reserves as innovative platforms for  preserving biodiversity, including most particularly from Viet Nam, the Philippines and many others.  (The Director-General continues in French)
2.24 Mesdames et Messieurs, cette Assemblée a toujours été la chambre d’écho des tendances du monde, le lieu  d’anticipation des futurs possibles. En 1999, dans cette même salle, la délégation de l’Afghanistan prenait la parole pour  alerter la communauté internationale sur le danger de l’extrémisme et sur les violences perpétrées dans le pays envers  les filles empêchées de se rendre à l’école, et pour demander l’inscription d’urgence des Bouddhas de Bâmiyân sur la  Liste du patrimoine mondial en péril. C’était deux ans avant la destruction des Bouddhas de Bâmiyân. C’était deux ans  avant le 11 septembre. Oui, Mesdames et Messieurs, il existe un système mondial d’alerte précoce des conflits à venir,  des défis de demain : il se trouve ici, dans cette salle.
2.25 Durant toute cette semaine, j’ai entendu des mises en garde, des inquiétudes, des signes avant-coureurs de  violences futures. J’ai écouté le Burundi qui cherche difficilement à se relever d’une dure crise politico-sociale, et l’on sait  que la seule réponse passe par le dialogue et la culture de la paix. J’ai entendu l’appel vibrant du Honduras en faveur de  la justice, seul chemin possible pour construire la paix. J’ai écouté avec attention le récit de transformations nationales  considérables, que ce soit aux îles Fidji en matière d’éducation, en Zambie et au Myanmar pour la liberté d’expression,  ou au Malawi avec l’engagement des jeunes dans les radios communautaires.
2.26 La stratégie de Singapour pour intégrer la culture, le design et l’innovation dans les politiques d’aménagement  urbain justifie pleinement le plaidoyer de l’UNESCO concernant le lien entre la culture et le développement, et je ne  pouvais imaginer de meilleure introduction pour la conférence que nous organisons au mois de décembre, à Hangzhou,  sur la culture et le développement urbain durable, en prévision de la Conférence Habitat III l’année prochaine.
2.27 De nombreux pays font preuve de mouvements de solidarité considérables dans l’accueil de réfugiés du climat  ou des conflits, au Liban, en Turquie, en Jordanie, au Cameroun, au Bangladesh ou au Pakistan, témoignant de la  capacité des peuples à tendre la main, une main que nous devons tendre à notre tour. J’ai pris la mesure des dizaines  de propositions et idées concrètes présentées, des projets destinés à avancer : une stratégie contre l’extrémisme et des  fonds pour l’éducation, proposés par le Président du Kazakhstan, M. Nazarbayev, en soutien à la Décennie  internationale du rapprochement des cultures, avec l’organisation d’un forum sur l’islam contre le terrorisme ; des  conférences sur le dialogue interculturel, proposées par l’ex-République yougoslave de Macédoine ; un programme  international pour une culture de paix et de dialogue, suggéré par le roi Abdullah bin Abdul-Aziz. Je voudrais saluer les  soutiens financiers et juridiques exprimés en faveur de la protection du patrimoine en danger par l’Allemagne, le  Royaume-Uni, la Suisse, le Qatar, le Koweït et de nombreux autres pays.
2.28 Vous connaissez les efforts déployés par l’UNESCO pour lutter contre le trafic illicite des biens culturels, et je  veux saluer les mesures prises par des dizaines d’entre vous pour coordonner les services, renforcer les contrôles et  partager les informations, à nos côtés, dans le cadre de la Convention de 1970 et de la résolution 2199 du Conseil de  sécurité. L’UNESCO  a lancé plusieurs projets d’urgence, que ce soit pour la protection des musées en Iraq, avec le
261  Japon et la Norvège, ou pour la sauvegarde du patrimoine culturel syrien à partir de Beyrouth, avec l’Union européenne.  Nous avons encore besoin de votre soutien car ces efforts donnent des résultats et nous savons que si les objets ont pu  être mis à l’abri, en Syrie, en Libye ou au Yémen, c’est aussi grâce à la formation dispensée depuis des années par  l’UNESCO à des professionnels sur le terrain.
2.29 Cet engagement pratique doit s’accompagner d’une réflexion théorique, avec les experts, sur le sens de la  protection et de la restauration du patrimoine mondial aujourd’hui et la mise en œuvre des conventions de l’UNESCO, en  réponse à ces conflits modernes. Je pense à la proposition de créer une équipe spéciale pour le patrimoine réunissant  des experts civils et militaires qui a été faite par le Ministre de la culture de l’Italie, M. Dario Franceschini, et qui ouvre de  nouvelles perspectives pour une protection du patrimoine plus réactive, plus mobile et plus intégrée. Je remercie le  Ministre des affaires étrangères de la Fédération de Russie, M. Sergei Lavrov, qui est favorable à l’envoi de missions de  l’UNESCO pour évaluer l’ampleur des destructions sur les sites touchés et préparer dès que possible la remise en état  de ces sites.
2.30 Chaque pays est confronté à des défis particuliers et la violence revêt de nombreux visages : celui de l’injustice  sociale, celui des groupes armés, des narcotrafiquants ou du terrorisme. Personne ne peut prétendre avoir de solution  définitive mais chacun ici peut faire part de son expérience concrète, qui est chaque fois une leçon d’humilité et un  devoir de précision. Ensemble, nous avons lancé le dernier rapport sur les tendances mondiales en matière de liberté  d’expression et de développement des médias, avec le soutien de la Suède, à l’occasion de la Journée internationale de  la fin de l’impunité pour les crimes commis contre des journalistes. Ensemble, experts et responsables politiques se sont  réunis pour la manifestation parallèle sur la prévention de l’extrémisme violent par le biais de l’éducation organisée à  l’initiative des États-Unis, en présence du Secrétaire d’État adjoint, M. Antony Blinken, suite à l’adoption à l’unanimité par  le Conseil exécutif d’une décision sur la question.
2.31 La violence ne pourra pas être vaincue par la seule force des armes, ni par de nouvelles violences. Comme la  majorité d’entre vous l’avez dit clairement, il faut s’attaquer à ses causes profondes. Par l’éducation de qualité, par la  compréhension mutuelle, par le respect des cultures, de la sienne et de celle des autres, et par une culture de la paix.  Ce sont des domaines où les discours ne suffisent pas, encore moins qu’ailleurs, et l’UNESCO doit mettre en œuvre des  programmes plus efficaces, des outils de haute précision, au plus près du terrain, car l’esprit des hommes et des  femmes est une matière complexe qui ne se satisfait pas de considérations générales sur le « dialogue des  civilisations » ou la « citoyenneté mondiale ». De même qu’il existe des armes de précision de haute technologie, il faut  des programmes éducatifs de pointe et des outils de dialogue interculturel de dernière génération.
2.32 Je rejoins totalement les appels du Danemark et du Royaume-Uni sur ce point : la réforme de l’UNESCO va  bien au-delà d’une réflexion sur les coûts et les processus, elle exige la mise en œuvre de programmes toujours plus  efficaces, adaptés à des situations qui changent en permanence. Je salue à cet égard la proposition de la France  tendant à lancer une coalition d’États en vue de préparer une initiative stratégique pour la prochaine session de la  Conférence générale. Au cours de ce débat, ainsi que lors des dizaines de manifestations parallèles organisées et dans  le cadre des entretiens bilatéraux que j’ai eus avec beaucoup d’entre vous, j’ai vu déjà de nombreuses initiatives et des  propositions dynamiques d’outils concrets. Des ministres de l’éducation – de la Tunisie à la République dominicaine –  ont donné des clés USB où l’on trouve l’intégralité des supports éducatifs de leur pays, à glisser dans sa poche.
2.33 Le savoir et la connaissance circulent plus facilement, mais la propagande et les messages de haine aussi,  malheureusement. J’ai écouté avec beaucoup d’intérêt l’intervention de l’Algérie, qui a lutté pendant dix ans contre  l’extrémisme et qui a des enseignements irremplaçables à nous faire partager. On peut passer dix ans à renforcer le  système scolaire d’un pays, à former les professeurs à l’enseignement de la paix et de la tolérance, à la citoyenneté à  l’école, mais si le soir, dans leur chambre, par la magie des satellites et des réseaux sociaux, les jeunes sont abreuvés  de messages de haine, tout est à recommencer. L’UNESCO est bien placée pour le savoir, qui est née d’une guerre  mondiale ayant éclaté sur un continent, l’Europe, qui à l’époque était le plus alphabétisé de tous et doté des moyens de  communication les plus puissants. Toute éducation reste fragile tant qu’elle n’est pas fondée sur les droits humains et  capable d’enseigner l’esprit critique et le sens du devoir, vis-à-vis de soi et des autres, pour la tolérance et la paix.
2.34 Voilà pourquoi, Mesdames et Messieurs, je suis convaincue que l’UNESCO doit renforcer son soutien auprès  des jeunes, et sa stratégie opérationnelle pour la jeunesse (2014-2021) est à cet égard plus essentielle que jamais. Je  vous remercie du soutien que vous avez apporté à de nombreuses initiatives de l’Organisation dans ce domaine, qu’il  s’agisse de l’initiative visant à combattre la radicalisation et l’extrémisme des jeunes sur l’Internet, du projet Réseaux de  la jeunesse méditerranéenne (NET-MED Youth) qui concerne dix pays de la région de la Méditerranée et qui vient  justement d’organiser un atelier de formation pour les jeunes journalistes palestiniens de Gaza, ou encore du  programme MOST, pour l’inclusion sociale et le droit à la dignité, comme l’ont souligné l’Indonésie, Madagascar, la  Roumanie, la Mongolie, l’Allemagne, le Paraguay ou la République démocratique du Congo. Je veux insister notamment  sur la campagne des jeunes pour une culture de la paix en Afrique qui a été lancée avec l’UNESCO en Angola, au  Gabon et en Côte d’Ivoire et qui se développe au cœur de l’action que nous menons dans le cadre de notre Priorité  globale Afrique.
2.35 Contre la globalisation de l’intolérance, il faut faire entendre d’autres messages, proposer une vision positive de  l’entraide face aux fausses promesses de l’extrémisme. Il y a vingt ans exactement, le Premier Ministre israélien Itzhak  Rabin affirmait que « la paix a ses chances » car une majorité de gens veulent la paix. C’est la voix de cette majorité que  nous devons faire entendre, en mettant en valeur les liens qui nous unissent. C’est le sens de la campagne  #UnisPourLePatrimoine que vous avez été nombreux à soutenir, ce dont je vous remercie. Nous aurons l’occasion de  nous retrouver cette semaine, avec des archéologues et des témoins qui viendront parler de leur action, pour amplifier  ce mouvement. C’est le sens également de la Déclaration sur la sécurité dans les écoles, proposée par la Norvège et
262  déjà soutenue par plus de 50 pays, et j’appelle à nouveau tous les États membres de l’UNESCO à souscrire à cette  déclaration. C’est le sens de ma proposition tendant à créer des « aires culturelles protégées » dans les zones de conflit.
2.36 Dans la diversité de vos pays et de vos trajectoires, vous avez finalement exprimé des aspirations  fondamentales à des principes vitaux, simples et universels : le droit de mener une vie digne, le droit à une éducation de  qualité pour nos enfants et nos adolescents, filles et garçons, afin qu’ils deviennent des citoyens responsables et  engagés dans la société, avec un métier décent, le droit de faire valoir son identité, de participer à la mondialisation sans  peur de voir son histoire effacée, en misant au contraire sur la diversité comme source d’innovation et de renouvellement.  Cette idée est au cœur de l’intervention faite par l’Union européenne à l’appui de la Convention de l’UNESCO de 2005  sur la diversité des expressions culturelles, dont nous célébrons cette année le 10e anniversaire, ainsi que des paroles  très fortes du Premier Ministre des Iles Cook, qui a souligné le besoin de préserver le patrimoine sous toutes ses formes,  matérielles, immatérielles et naturelles, en déclarant que « notre patrimoine est constitué non seulement de monuments  mais de pratiques séculaires de pêche et de plantation ».
2.37 L’UNESCO, Mesdames et Messieurs, occupe une position centrale dans ce domaine. Dans votre diversité, dans  notre diversité, vous avez pointé le besoin d’identifier et de protéger un certain nombre de « biens publics mondiaux »  comme l’éducation, l’eau, l’environnement, le patrimoine matériel et immatériel, la diversité culturelle. Les inégalités  entre les pays et au sein des pays, les écarts immenses dans l’accès à ces biens publics mondiaux, sont des atteintes à  l’essence indivisible de l’humanité ; ils perpétuent les injustices d’aujourd’hui et préparent les violences de demain. Dans  un monde interdépendant, le dialogue interculturel n’est pas juste un impératif de paix : c’est une méthode de travail, le  seul chemin possible pour élaborer des solutions communes à des enjeux qui nous dépassent.
2.38 Plusieurs futurs sont possibles : aucun n’est écrit et le rôle de l’UNESCO est de mettre en avant les initiatives  qui nous rassemblent, de promouvoir tout ce qui renforce notre humanité commune, les rencontres, les cultures  partagées et la coopération, pour que cet avenir l’emporte sur les autres. Je crois que ce n’est pas une utopie. Cette  conférence n’est pas un rassemblement d’observateurs du monde, mais une réunion de décideurs politiques, et vos  décisions peuvent changer le cours des choses. Il n’y a pas besoin d’attendre ou de s’en remettre à d’autres, il n’y a pas  de fatalité. C’est le cœur du projet humaniste. Comme l’a souligné avec force le Ministre de la République dominicaine,  « ce monde peut être meilleur si nous le décidons ». À nous donc de le décider. Je vous remercie.
3. The President:    Thank you very much, Madam Director-General. On behalf of the General Conference, I would like to thank you  most sincerely for a very clear, elaborate and comprehensive reply to the general policy debate. Ladies and gentlemen,  as announced earlier, the next item on our agenda for today is item 8.3, “Request for the admission of the Republic of  Kosovo to UNESCO”, and this item, as you recall, has been scheduled for examination at 11.30 this morning. We will  therefore suspend the plenary meeting now and reconvene at 11.30 a.m. sharp. Thank you very much for your attention.   The meeting is suspended from 10.55 a.m. to 11.40 a.m.
4. The President:   Good morning again, ladies and gentlemen. We will now continue our plenary meeting in which we will be  examining item 8.3, “Request for the admission of the Republic of Kosovo to UNESCO”. This item, as you recall, has  been placed on the agenda in conformity with 197 EX/Decision 43 of the Executive Board, a decision that was adopted  at its 197th session. I would therefore like to give the floor to the Chair of the Executive Board, who will present the  Board’s recommendation on this particular item. Your Excellency, Ambassador Amr, you have the floor.  Item 8.3: Request for the admission of the Republic of Kosovo to UNESCO  Point 8.3 : Demande d'admission de la République du Kosovo à l'UNESCO  Punto 8.3 : Solicitud de admisión de la República de Kosovo en la UNESCO  Пункт 8.3: Просьба о принятии Республики Косово в члены ЮНЕСКО  طلب انضمام جمهورية كوسوفو إلى عضوية اليونسكو :٨,٣البند    项目 8.3: 要求接纳科索沃共和国加入教科文组织
5. Mr Amr (Egypt) (Chair of the Executive Board):   Thank you very much Mr President of the General Conference, Madam Director-General, distinguished  delegates, ladies and gentlemen. The Executive Board at its 197th session considered the item entitled “Request for the  admission of the Republic of Kosovo to UNESCO” proposed by Member States in accordance with Rule 5.2 of the Rules  of Procedure of the Executive Board. Following a vote taken by roll call with 27 votes in favour, 14 votes against and
14 abstentions, the Executive Board adopted 197 EX/Decision 43, by which it recommends that the General Conference  admit the Republic of Kosovo as a Member of UNESCO. Mr President, on behalf of the Executive Board and in  conformity with Article 2, paragraph 2 and Article V.b, paragraphs 6 and 7 of the Constitution of our Organization, may I  therefore recommend that the General Conference consider the text of the aforementioned Executive Board decision.  Thank you very much Mr President.
6. The President:   Thank you very much, Mr Chair. Ladies and gentlemen, we have now heard the recommendation of the  Executive Board. You have in front of you document 38 C/PLEN/DR.1, submitted on this item by 37 Member States. May  I invite one of the co-sponsors to introduce the draft resolution, but in the meantime, I see Serbia wishes to take the floor.  The distinguished representative of Serbia, you now have the floor sir.
7. Serbia:   Mr President, delegates, ladies and gentlemen, we are asking for the adjournment of the debate on this item, in  accordance with Rule 75 of the Rules of Procedure of the General Conference, until the next session of the General  Conference, in order to give a chance to dialogue with the aim of achieving a sustainable and mutually acceptable  solution. In case there is no consensus on this procedural motion, we ask that the decision be taken by roll call. Thank  you, Mr President.
8. The President:   Thank you very much. According to Rule 75 of our Rules of Procedure, during the discussion of any question, a  Member State or Associate Member present may move adjournment of a debate on the item under discussion. I now  give the floor to the Legal Adviser for all our benefit who will read out the relevant Rule of Procedure of the General  Conference. Madam Legal Adviser, you have the floor.
9. Legal Adviser:   Thank you, Mr President of the General Conference. Rule 75 of the Rules of Procedure of the General  Conference entitled: “Adjournment of debate” provides as follows: “During the discussion of any question a Member  State or Associate Member present may move adjournment of the debate on the item under discussion. Any such motion  shall have precedence. In addition to the proposal of the motion, one speaker may speak in favour of, and one against,  the motion. The President may limit the time to be allowed to speakers under this rule”. Thank you.
10. The President:    Thank you very much Madam Legal Adviser. As we have heard, Rule 75 provides that in addition to the  proposal of the motion, one speaker may speak in favour of this motion and one may speak against. It seems that there  is a point of order from the United States of America. You have the floor.
11. United States of America:   Thank you, Mr Chair. I do not think that the item has been formally submitted before the Conference. You were  about to recognize one of the Member States which would submit the item and therefore it is our view that the item is not  currently under discussion, and therefore the motion to postpone and close the debate was premature. We believe that it  is important that the item first be introduced, at which point any other motions can be considered. Thank you.
12. The President:   Thank you very much. I think I will once again request the Legal Adviser not to re-read what is contained in Rule
75 but to give us the correct interpretation of what is reflected in Rule 75 in an attempt to try and determine whether the  point made by the United States of America can be carried forward. Thank you very much.
13. Legal Adviser:    Thank you Mr President. Rule 75 provides, as I announced at the outset, that during the discussion of any  question a Member State or an Associate Member present may move adjournment. I think that as soon as the item has  been opened for discussion it is therefore legitimate at that point for a Member State or Associate Member to already  move for adjournment of the debate. Therefore I think that the adjournment of the debate has been legitimately proposed.  Thank you.
14. The President:    Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, let us proceed with the motion to adjourn the debate. I was saying  that in terms of these rules, in addition to the proposal of the motion, one speaker may speak in favour of the motion  while one may speak against. I will therefore give the floor, first to another speaker who supports the motion of  adjournment and then thereafter to a speaker who is against this motion. The time limit for each speaker is three minutes.  Thank you very much. I see that the Russian Federation would like to speak in favour of the motion. You now have the  floor.
(15) Fédération de Russie (traduit du russe) :   Merci, Monsieur le Président. La Fédération de Russie appuie la proposition de la Serbie.
16. The President:    Thank you very much. Can I invite the distinguished representative of Germany to speak against the motion?
17. Germany:   Thank you Mr President. Germany objects to a postponement of the decision concerning item 8.3. The  Executive Board has given a clear recommendation after thorough deliberation and thought and we think the time is right  to decide today. Thank you.
18. The President:    Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. As I understand, the room is divided on this sensitive subject. I  therefore propose that we proceed immediately to vote on this proposed motion for the adjournment of the debate to the  next session of the General Conference. I see a point of order from the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern  Ireland. You have the floor.
19. United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland:   Thank you Mr President. Under Rule 89 of the Rules of Procedure, Member States are permitted to explain their  votes before or after voting. If we are going to vote on this procedural motion I wish to give an explanation of vote. Please  tell me that I can do it beforehand.
20. The President:    Thank you very much. May I request the Legal Adviser to just reflect briefly on that so that we can get a clear  direction.
21. Legal Adviser:    Thank you Mr President. Rule 89 of the Rules of Procedure of the General Conference provides, and I quote:  “The President may permit delegates to explain their votes either before or after the voting, except when the vote is taken  by secret ballot”. It further provides that the President may limit the time to be allowed for such explanations. Thank you.
22. The President:    Thank you very much. That being the case, indeed I will exercise my discretion, although I hope we limit our  explanations because we need to make progress, and I will grant the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern  Ireland the latitude to explain its vote. You have two minutes, please.
23. United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland:   Thank you Mr President. The United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland opposes the postponement  of the consideration of the membership of Kosovo. Mr President, in the 70 years that UNESCO has existed, the General  Conference has never refused to accept a member that has been recommended for admission by the Executive Board,  and it has never refused to consider such a request, and therefore we would be setting a terrible precedent today.  Mr President, the United Nations Interim Administration Mission in Kosovo (UNMIK) has said that this is a decision for  the General Conference of UNESCO to take. The previous administrators of UNMIK have recommended that Kosovo be  admitted to UNESCO. The International Court of Justice has declared that Kosovo’s declaration of independence was  fully compliant with all United Nations resolutions on the matter. Kosovo has been able to join the International Monetary  Fund, the World Bank and the International Olympic Committee. Kosovo should be able to join UNESCO. We  understand the point that is being made about dialogue, and that dialogue will be enhanced by Kosovo’s membership of  UNESCO. One final point – as a European Union member, I wish to affirm that there is absolutely no link between the  European Union dialogue and Kosovo’s membership of UNESCO. They are not linked. All those countries that wish to  vote in favour of Kosovo’s membership, all those that wish to allow Kosovo to benefit from UNESCO’s programmes in  education, science and culture, should vote against the motion to postpone. Thank you.
24. The President:    Thank you very much. Argentina has requested for the floor to explain its vote.
(25) Argentine (traduit de l’espagnol) :   Je vous remercie Madame la Présidente. La délégation argentine estime qu’il ne doit pas être donné suite à la  demande d’admission du Kosovo en qualité de membre à part entière de l’UNESCO, car cette demande ne repose sur aucun  fondement juridique. En vertu de la résolution 1244 du Conseil de sécurité de l’ONU, le Kosovo et la Métochie forment un  territoire sous administration des Nations Unies faisant partie intégrante de la République de Serbie. C’est pourquoi la  République argentine ne reconnaît pas la déclaration unilatérale d’indépendance prononcée en 2008 par le Parlement du  Kosovo, qu’elle considère comme une violation du principe de souveraineté et d’intégrité territoriale. Par ailleurs, la résolution  susmentionnée du Conseil de sécurité instaure un système de règlement des différends par le biais d’un accord mutuellement  reconnu par les parties concernées. À cet égard, des négociations ont lieu actuellement et devront, selon nous, avoir été  menées à bonne fin avant que la Conférence n’adopte une décision d’une telle importance. La décision adoptée sur cette  question par le Conseil exécutif à sa dernière session n’est pas légitime car l’Acte constitutif de l’UNESCO énonce clairement  en son article II.3 que ce type de territoires doit être admis en qualité de membre associé. La République argentine s’oppose  catégoriquement à l’admission du Kosovo comme membre à part entière de l’Organisation. Merci.
26. The President:    Thank you very much, Your Excellencies. Let me now call upon Indonesia to take the floor, followed by Cuba.
27. Indonesia:   Thank you very much, Mr President. This issue has polarized and divided the Member States of UNESCO.  Hence, Indonesia seconds the motion proposed by Serbia for postponement. I thank you.
28. The President:   Thank you very much. The distinguished representative of Cuba.
(29) Cuba (traduit de l’espagnol) :   Merci, Monsieur le Président. La République de Cuba rappelle son attachement au respect absolu des principes du  droit international consacrés par la Charte des Nations Unies, parmi lesquels figure celui de l’intégrité territoriale des États.  Cuba défend sans restriction l’intégrité territoriale de la République de Serbie et ne reconnaît pas la République  autoproclamée du Kosovo en tant qu’État indépendant. Pour toutes ces raisons, ma délégation s’oppose au projet de  résolution soumis récemment à la Conférence générale. Merci.
30. The President:   Thank you very much. Before I call upon the next speaker, can I request the distinguished delegates to kindly  indicate if they would like to explain their votes, so that we can have a complete list of those who want to take the floor so  that we can close the list and then exhaust it, and then get on with the business before us. Let me invite the Secretary to  read out the list as it stands.
31. Le Sécretaire:   Merci, Monsieur le Président. Les États membres qui ont demandé à expliquer leur vote sont la Serbie, la  Fédération de Russie, les États-Unis d’Amérique, la République bolivarienne du Venezuela, l’Érythrée, l’Éthiopie,  l’Uruguay, le Bénin, l’Espagne, l’ex-République yougoslave de Macédoine, l’Albanie, le Belarus et le Costa Rica.
32. The President:   Thank you very much. That is the list that we have established so far. Let me then invite the distinguished  representative of Serbia to take the floor. Your Excellency, you have the floor.
33. Serbia:   Mr President, the distinguished delegate of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland mentioned  precedent, and said that the Executive Board had recommended this resolution and that never in the history of UNESCO  had the General Conference rejected such a proposal. For me, this precedent is a logical one as it is the first time in the  history of UNESCO that such a proposal has such a candidate for membership, because Kosovo is not a State.  According to Security Council resolution 1244 (1999), it is a territory administered by the United Nations. It is only logical  to reject it. It was not logical just to support that and to recommend admission as a member at the Executive Board. So  this precedent would be logical in the line of the functioning of UNESCO and international law. Thank you.
34. The President:   Thank you very much, Sir. Let me then call on the distinguished representative of the Russian Federation.
(35.1) Fédération de Russie (traduit du russe) :   Merci, Monsieur le Président. Je voudrais tout d’abord préciser que nous ne tenions pas à ouvrir ce débat, mais qu’il  l’a été malgré tout. Par conséquent, je me permets également d’intervenir pour souligner que la résolution 1244 du Conseil de  sécurité de l’ONU reste pleinement en vigueur en tant qu’instrument international juridiquement contraignant pour le règlement  de la question du Kosovo. Cette résolution prévoit le fonctionnement d’institutions provisoires d’administration autonome au  Kosovo, sous la supervision d’une présence internationale.
(35.2) Comme l’a montré la séance du Conseil de sécurité de l’ONU sur la question du Kosovo tenue en août 2015, la  situation qui prévaut dans cette province est loin d’être stable et doit rester sous une supervision internationale rapprochée.  De ce fait, la demande d’admission du Kosovo à l’UNESCO va à l’encontre de la résolution 1244 du Conseil de sécurité de  l’ONU et apparaît prématurée.
(35.3) La province du Kosovo, qui est placée sous l’administration de l’ONU, ne peut pas se considérer comme un État  doté d’une personnalité juridique, ni, par conséquent, prétendre à l’adhésion à une organisation internationale. L’examen
266  même de cette demande va à l’encontre des principes fondamentaux de l’UNESCO, car il politise cette organisation  humanitaire de premier plan et porte atteinte à la culture de prise de décision par consensus qui est celle de l’UNESCO. Merci  de votre attention.
36. The President:   Thank you very much. Let me now call on the distinguished representative of the United States of America. You  have the floor.
37.1 United States of America:   Thank you, Mr Chair. The United States believes strongly that postponing consideration on Kosovo’s application  for UNESCO membership serves no purpose. The arguments both for and against Kosovo’s membership are not likely to  change. As Deputy Secretary of State, Anthony Blinken, stated in our national statement, there is an undeniable path for  Kosovo membership in the Organization; a path which is not diverted and not blocked by United Nations Security Council  resolution 1244 (1999). This is not a question of recognition or non-recognition. Countries that do not recognize Kosovo  have supported its membership in specialized United Nations agencies including the World Bank, and the International  Monetary Fund (IMF).
37.2 Moreover, the United Nations mission in Kosovo confirmed that Kosovo’s application is, and I quote – “solely for  UNESCO and its organs to determine” – end quote. The European Union-facilitated Kosovo-Serbia dialogue for  normalization of relations does not divert or block a path for UNESCO membership either, because both parties  committed in the dialogue principles to not block each other’s progress on their respective European Union paths. The  issue of Kosovo’s admission to multilateral international organizations is not a subject of the dialogue, and completion of  the dialogue is not a prerequisite for Kosovo’s continued development and integration. With UNESCO membership,  Kosovo’s citizens would benefit from collaboration, shared knowledge and best practices of the international community  in education, sciences, culture, communication and information. Membership in UNESCO would also boost  accountability and transparency in the preservation and conservation of the diverse cultural heritage represented in  Kosovo, including important Serbian Orthodox sites. Kosovo’s application makes clear that it is willing and able to abide  by the UNESCO Constitution, to accept the obligations contained therein and to contribute to the expenses of the  Organization. The Constitution of UNESCO is clear on this issue as well. Therefore, this General Conference should be  given the opportunity now to vote on Kosovo’s application to join this Organization. Thank you.
38. The President:   Thank you very much. Let me then invite the distinguished representative of the Bolivarian Republic of  Venezuela to take the floor.
(39) République bolivarienne du Venezuela (traduit de l’espagnol) :   Merci, Monsieur le Président. Au nom du Gouvernement de la République bolivarienne du Venezuela, je souhaite  opposer notre refus à la demande d’admission du Kosovo en qualité de membre de l’UNESCO et, par conséquent, exprimer  notre soutien à la délégation de la Serbie. Nous considérons que le Kosovo ne peut prétendre à ce statut car il n’est pas un  État indépendant. La sécession du Kosovo ne remplit pas les conditions préalables permettant d’invoquer le principe  d’autodétermination, comme le fait d’avoir été sous la domination d’un régime colonial ou d’avoir été une république  indépendante. En effet, en vertu de la résolution 1244 du Conseil de sécurité de l’ONU, le Kosovo fait partie intégrante de la  Serbie. Le reconnaître comme membre de l’UNESCO constituerait une violation flagrante du droit international, de la Charte  des Nations Unies et de l’Acte constitutif de l’UNESCO. De ce point de vue, l’éventuelle admission du Kosovo à l’UNESCO  créerait un précédent dangereux et préjudiciable pour l’ensemble des États qui connaissent une situation similaire avec  d’autres entités ou d’autres territoires, menaçant ainsi l’intégrité territoriale, la paix et la sécurité internationale. Je vous  remercie.
40. The President:   Thank you very much. I see a point of order from Germany.
41. Germany:   Thank you Mr President. The question is whether we are discussing and deciding on the substance of item 8.3.  Should we continue the debate as it started or do we still have to decide about the Serbian motion concerning  postponement? If we are discussing postponement, which Germany clearly opposes, then the General Conference has  to take an immediate decision about it and I propose that it be done by a roll-call vote. We could then debate the  substance afterwards and I would be happy to participate in this debate. Thank you.
42. The President:   Thank you very much. Before I react to that, I see Albania wishes to take the floor. Please, you have the floor.
43. Albania:   Thank you Mr President. I would like to second what Germany just said. We are now debating the substance of  the item, and this is not the right time to do so. We are now considering the motion of adjournment and we agree that we  should go ahead with a roll-call vote. Thank you.
44. The President:   Thank you very much the points of order you have raised, but the crux of the matter, ladies and gentlemen, is  that the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland set the process in motion by requesting to take the floor to  explain its vote in terms of the motion in favour of adjournment, a request that I, as President, granted. In all fairness, I  am sure you will all agree with me that although the explanation of the vote has digressed into discussing the substance  of the item that we are looking at, it is only fair that I grant the same opportunity to each and every Member State. Having  granted that opportunity to the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, it would be procedurally unfair for  the President to deny all the others to take the floor to explain their vote on the motion to adjourn. I think it is only fair that  we continue, and continue quickly, so that we can exhaust our list and then we vote by roll-call as has been requested. Is  that fair enough? I think so. So let us proceed. Eritrea, you now have the floor.
45. Eritrea:   My delegation understands that the dialogue between Serbia and Kosovo is bearing fruit. Eritrea thinks that a  chance should be given for this dialogue to reach a mutually beneficial conclusion. Therefore, we support Serbia’s  suggestion to adjourn the debate on the item of the inclusion of Kosovo to UNESCO to the next session of the General  Conference. Thank you very much.
46. The President:   Thank you very much. Let me invite Ethiopia to take the floor.
47. Ethiopia:   Thank you, Mr President. Ethiopia does not recognize Kosovo. Negotiations between the parties are ongoing  and this should be appreciated. Mutual consent will bring lasting peace for which UNESCO is mandated. This mutual  consent for peace from all sides is very important. We support the adjournment as proposed by Serbia. Thank you.
48. The President:   Thank you very much. Let me invite Uruguay to also explain their vote.
(49) Uruguay (traduit de l’espagnol) :   Merci, Monsieur le Président. L’Uruguay maintient sa position concernant la non reconnaissance du Kosovo. Notre  pays a souligné qu’il importait de respecter le principe d’intégrité territoriale des États comme norme impérative du droit  international. Ce principe constitue un élément central de la coexistence pacifique et de la coopération entre les États  membres de la communauté internationale. L’Uruguay a appuyé la résolution présentée par la Serbie dans le cadre de  l’Assemblée générale des Nations Unies, en 2008, afin de solliciter l’avis consultatif de la Cour internationale de justice (CIJ)  au sujet de la déclaration unilatérale d’indépendance du Kosovo. Pour donner suite à l’approbation de ladite résolution, la  Cour a émis un avis en juillet 2010 dans lequel elle indique que le droit international général ne comporte aucune interdiction  des déclarations d’indépendance et qu’en conséquence la déclaration du 17 février 2008 ne viole pas le droit international  général, mais la CIJ ne se prononce pas sur l’existence ou non d’un droit de sécession. De même, l’Uruguay a approuvé, en
2010, une nouvelle résolution présentée par la Serbie à l’Assemblée générale des Nations Unies, qui accueille avec  satisfaction la volonté de l’Union européenne de faciliter un processus de dialogue entre les parties, la Serbie et le Kosovo,  étant entendu que ce processus de dialogue constituerait en soi un facteur de paix, de sécurité et la stabilité dans la région, et  qu’il aurait pour objectif de promouvoir la coopération, d’avancer vers l’adhésion à l’Union européenne et d’améliorer les  conditions de vie de la population. Je vous remercie, Monsieur le Président.
50. The President:   Thank you very much. Before I invite Benin to take the floor, let me invite the Secretary to read out the list of  speakers who want to explain their vote to adjourn or not to adjourn. The list is fairly long.
51. Le Secrétaire :   Merci, Monsieur le Président. La liste des orateurs restants est la suivante : Bénin, Espagne, ex-République  yougoslave de Macédoine,  Belize, Guinée équatoriale, Zimbabwe, France, Nicaragua, Estonie, Allemagne, Arabie  saoudite, Albanie et Chypre.
52. The President:   Thank you very much. As I said, it is a fairly long list. Could any other Member States who would like to take the  floor show themselves, because I will be closing the list. May the Secretary read the last additions.
53. Le Secrétaire :   Donc, Monsieur le Président, après l’Arabie saoudite, nous avons aussi relevé l’Albanie, Chypre, l’Autriche, le  Costa Rica, la Chine, le Mexique et la République dominicaine.
54. President   Thank you very much. On that basis, the list of speakers is now closed.
55. Bénin :   Merci, Monsieur le Président. Je crois qu’il y a une erreur au niveau du Secrétariat. Le Bénin n’a pas demandé à  prendre la parole sur ce point.
56. The President:   Thank you very much for saving us two more minutes. We appreciate that. Indeed, we will take off Benin from  the list. Let me then invite the distinguished representative of Spain to take the floor. You have the floor, Sir.
(57) Espagne (traduit de l’espagnol) :   Merci, Monsieur le Président. L’Espagne est favorable à l’ajournement du débat pour plusieurs raisons. Tout d’abord,  pour de solides raisons de fond évoquées par d’autres délégations. Le plein respect du principe d’intégrité territoriale a été cité,  ainsi que la totale validité de la résolution 1244 du Conseil de sécurité de l’ONU et la décision de la Cour internationale de  justice relative à la déclaration unilatérale d’indépendance, qui ne fait pas référence au statut d’État ou non du territoire, mais  à sa corrélation avec ladite résolution. À ces raisons de fond, s’ajoutent des motifs très importants qui nous conduisent à  favoriser le dialogue, non seulement entre les parties, comme plusieurs délégations l’ont également mentionné – il faut faire  en sorte que ce dialogue entre Pristina et Belgrade continue à porter ses fruits – mais aussi pour obtenir un plus large  consensus. Un tel consensus n’existe pas à l’heure actuelle comme on a pu le constater au sein de cette assemblée, puisque  les interventions prononcées plus tôt par des délégués laissent apparaître un désaccord concernant la demande d’admission  de ce territoire au sein de l’UNESCO. Je vous remercie, Monsieur le Président.
58. The President:   Thank you very much. Let me then invite the representative of the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia to  take the floor.
59. The former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia:   Thank you very much, Mr President. I will briefly recall what has been said as regards international law by my  honourable colleague of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland and restated by the United States of  America. I would also recall that as regards the former Yugoslavia’s disintegration, there came out of it seven States,  which are neighbours, and as neighbours, we want a good neighbour, a prosperous neighbour. Of these neighbours, four  of them, Slovenia, Croatia, the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia and Montenegro, recognize Kosovo, with a view  to regional stability. I would remind you as well that Kosovo is outside of UNESCO. If we adjourn now, we will deprive  Kosovo’s citizens and children of education, of programmes that will enhance the capacity of the new States and that will  enhance cooperation between States, as stated in the process of European Union integration. European Union  integration means no borders. European Union integration means elevation to the status of a free democratic society. As  Serbia has applied for European Union integration, Kosovo has just signed a stabilization and association agreement.  Now we hear countries that have already lost in the Executive Board repeating all the same arguments over and over  again, countries that I am sorry to say are successors of Tolstoy, successors of Cervantes and Mandela, great men.  Here we are discussing universal values not a temporary conjectural raison d’état. Thank you.
60. The President:   Thank you very much, Sir. I will now invite the distinguished representative of Belize. You now have the floor,  Sir.
61. Belize:   Thank you, Mr President. Belize opposes the postponement of item 8.3. Belize totally supports the resolution of  Kosovo to become a member of UNESCO. We, as a people of peace and love, need to include all peoples because as I  said in my statement last week, “we are the world”. We need to respect people, to enable them to determine their own  future and stop being the big police, supressing and intimidating others. When I see human beings I see more similarities  than differences. I see hair and feet and legs and arms and we all wear clothes and shoes, regardless of creed, race,  colour, religion or political affiliation. So we need not fear anyone. Kosovo becoming a member of UNESCO can only
269  become an asset to strengthen us and not a deficit to weaken the Organization. So Belize co-sponsored this resolution  and we are proud of it. Thank you, Mr President.
62. The President:   Thank you very much, Sir. Let me invite the distinguished representative of Equatorial Guinea to take the floor.  You have the floor, Sir.
(63) Guinée équatoriale (traduit de l’espagnol) :   Merci, Monsieur le Président. Monsieur le Président : la Guinée équatoriale estime que l’admission du Kosovo au  sein de l’UNESCO est prématurée, car le dialogue entamé entre les parties sous l’égide des Nations Unies et du Conseil de  sécurité, dans le cadre de la résolution 1244, est toujours en cours. La Guinée équatoriale considère qu’accepter l’admission  entrainerait un précédent équivoque, allant à l’encontre du principe d’intégrité territoriale énoncée dans la Charte des Nations  Unies. Je vous remercie.
64. The President:   Thank you very much. Let me now invite the distinguished representative of Zimbabwe to take the floor. You  have the floor.
65. Zimbabwe:   Thank you Chairperson. Zimbabwe supports the proposal by Serbia to adjourn the debate. We feel that debate  on this vote will polarize our Organization and that there are other bodies within UNESCO and other methods by which  Kosovo can benefit, and now is not the right time to vote on membership. We want to give time to dialogue and all the  efforts that are being made to build peace, which is what UNESCO stands for. Thank you.
66. The President:   Thank you very much Your Excellency. Let me now invite the distinguished representative of France to take the  floor. Your Excellency you have the floor.
67. France :   Merci, Monsieur le Président. La France a voté en faveur de la recommandation du Conseil exécutif, dont elle  avait d’ailleurs co-signé le projet. Elle a également co-signé le projet de résolution qui est soumis ce matin à la  Conférence générale. La France est contre la motion d’ajournement, et pour l’admission du Kosovo en tant que
196e État membre de l’UNESCO. Nous pensons, en effet, qu’en droit, rien ne s’y oppose, ni la résolution 1244 du  Conseil de sécurité de l’ONU ni l’avis de la Cour internationale de justice ni le droit international général. Nous pensons,  en outre, qu’en opportunité, l’admission du Kosovo est de l’intérêt bien compris de toutes les parties, comme de  l’UNESCO et de tous ses États membres. Je vous remercie.
68. The President:   Thank you very much Your Excellency. Let me now invite the distinguished representative of Nicaragua to take  the floor.
(69) Nicaragua (traduit de l’espagnol) :   Merci, Monsieur le Président. La délégation de la République du Nicaragua appuie la motion de la Serbie visant à  reporter ce débat. Il faut permettre au dialogue entamé de suivre son cours et respecter l’intégrité du territoire serbe. Il serait  préjudiciable de créer un précédent consistant à admettre une région appartenant à un pays souverain au sein de cette  Organisation. Je vous remercie, Monsieur le Président.
70. The President:    Thank you very much Your Excellency. Let me now invite the distinguished representative of Estonia to take the  floor.
71. Estonia:   Thank you, Mr President. Estonia clearly opposes the adjournment and I am not going to reread all the  arguments which have been put forward about the statehood of Kosovo. I think the fact is that a majority of the world’s  countries have acknowledged Kosovo and there is no legal obstacle in fact to do so. If we are serious about the  protection of heritage in Kosovo, I am sure we can do it better when Kosovo is a member of this valuable Organization  that can provide excellent support and assistance in organizing this protection, and we think it is time to move forward.  Thank you.
72. The President:   Thank you very much. Let me invite the distinguished representative of Germany to take the floor.
73. Germany:    Thank you Mr President. Thank you for giving me once more the floor even though I did not ask for it because I  have already spoken against adjournment. Let me take this opportunity to say that we fully subscribe to what has just  been said against adjournment by Estonia, France and the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia and other countries.  Thank you.
(75) Arabie saoudite (traduit de l'arabe) :  Merci Monsieur le Président. L’Arabie saoudite appuie la sage intervention de l’Ambassadeur de l'ex-République  yougoslave de Macédoine  et les arguments qu’il a présentés. Nous votons en faveur du Kosovo pour des raisons plutôt  culturelles et éducatives que politiques. Nous connaissons tous les difficultés liées aux questions culturelles et aux sites du  patrimoine islamique ou orthodoxe au Kosovo. L’admission du Kosovo à l’UNESCO faciliterait l’examen de cette situation et  permettrait de l’améliorer. Quant à l’argument selon lequel le Kosovo n’est pas membre de l’Organisation des Nations Unies,  je tiens à rappeler à mes collègues que d’autres pays sont devenus membres de l’UNESCO avant de devenir membres de  l’Organisation des Nations Unies. La situation du Kosovo n’est donc pas sans précédent. Ce qui serait sans précédent,  comme l’a souligné l’Ambassadeur du Royaume-Uni, ce serait de casser l’autorité d’une décision votée par le Conseil exécutif  pour l’admission du Kosovo comme État membre, par un rejet de cette décision lors de la Conférence générale. Ce serait une  première, et c’est pourquoi l’Arabie saoudite est opposée à tout report et appuie l’admission du Kosovo à l’UNESCO. Merci.
76. The President:    Thank you very much. Let me then invite the distinguished representative of Cyprus to take the floor.
77. Cyprus:   Thank you Mr President. Very briefly, I would like to support the request by Serbia to adjourn this issue to the  next session of the General Conference. We consider the issue to be premature and counter to Security Council  resolution 1244 (1999). Furthermore it is obvious that this decision is divisive and we believe that time should be given to  dialogue. Thank you.
78. The President:    Thank you very much Your Excellency. Let me now invite the distinguished representative of Austria to take the  floor.
79. Austria:   Thank you, Mr President. Austria is very close to Serbia and Kosovo. We have excellent relations with both  countries. Cooperation, dialogue and membership in international organizations, including in UNESCO, contributes to the  development, progress and stability of a country and a region. That is why Austria supports Kosovo’s membership of  UNESCO and is against the adjournment. Rejecting Kosovo means rejecting dialogue and cooperation with Pristina,  rejecting the aspirations of youth and cultural educational communities of Kosovo, rejecting development opportunities  and also rejecting Kosovo’s commitment to take advantage of UNESCO’s know-how in heritage protection. It is rejecting  also the idea that like us all, Kosovo has a right to a voice here at UNESCO. Cooperation, support, dialogue and  integration are what we should aim for, not isolation and rejection. That is why Austria is in favour of Kosovo’s  membership and against adjournment.
80. The President:    Thank you very much Sir. Let me then invite the distinguished representative of Belarus to take the floor.
(81.1) Bélarus (traduit du russe) :   Monsieur le Président, merci de me donner la parole. Je crois que l’erreur concernant l’intervention du Bénin vient de  ce que le Bélarus s’est inscrit sur la liste des orateurs, et que le nom du pays a été mal écrit.
(81.2) Le Bélarus soutient pleinement l’intégrité territoriale de la République de Serbie, c’est pourquoi nous estimons qu’il  est nécessaire d’appuyer la proposition de la Serbie visant à reporter l’examen de la question de l’admission du Kosovo à la  prochaine session de la Conférence générale de l’UNESCO. Merci.
82. The President:   Thank you very much. I know that Albania took the floor concerning the motion. I take it that you want to take the  floor to explain your vote. You have the floor now.
83. Albania:   Yes, thank you Mr President. Albania opposes the motion of adjournment proposed by Serbia, protesting that it  would harm the dialogue between Serbia and Kosovo in Brussels. Mr President, Kosovo and Serbia will continue their  dialogue regardless of the decision of UNESCO. The General Assembly of the United Nations has mandated the  European Union to normalize relations between the two countries and these talks have had results. Dialogue is a  fundamental tool that should not be used to block Kosovo and to isolate it, but to allow it to better integrate into the  international community. Postponement of Kosovo’s membership would only make dialogue in Brussels harder and, on  the contrary, we are convinced that membership of Kosovo in UNESCO cannot but strengthen cooperation in the region  and help dialogue. Mr President, the issue of Kosovo’s accession to UNESCO is ready now for decision and it is timely. It  is very unlikely that UNESCO Member States’ positions would be any different in two years’ time. We should not deny  the benefits of membership to Kosovo’s population any longer because it would run counter to our joint interest in  strengthening cooperation in south-east Europe and strengthening the protection of cultural heritage. Therefore, we invite  all the countries that support Kosovo’s bid to vote against adjournment. Thank you.
84. The President:    Thank you very much. I invite the distinguished representative of Costa Rica to take the floor.
(85) Costa Rica (traduit de l’espagnol) :   Merci, Monsieur le Président. Le Costa Rica a reconnu l’indépendance de la République du Kosovo le 17 février
2008. Il a été le premier pays du monde à le faire. Par cette déclaration, notre pays a pris acte de la personnalité de l’État,  avec tous ses droits et ses obligations. Par cette déclaration, c’est également l’égalité entre les États qui a été affirmée, égalité  des droits et égalité des moyens de les exercer. Un fondement de la politique extérieure costaricienne réside dans le  renforcement du droit international et la mise en place d’un multilatéralisme effectif, qui requiert la participation de tous les  acteurs concernés et notamment des États. Refuser cette possibilité de contribution à un État que l’on a reconnu sur un pied  d’égalité n’aurait pas de sens. La participation active au sein des instances multilatérales revêt une importance particulière  lorsqu’il s’agit des thèmes centraux de l’UNESCO : l’éducation, la science et la culture. Le meilleur moyen pour le Kosovo de  faire face aux difficultés qu’il rencontre dans ces domaines serait que la communauté internationale l’intègre comme État à  part entière. À la lumière des arguments qui précèdent, le Costa Rica appuie la demande d’admission du Kosovo comme  membre de l’UNESCO. Il est favorable à ce que cette question soit examinée à la présente Conférence générale et s’oppose  à son ajournement. Je vous remercie.
86. The President:   Thank you very much. Let me then invite the distinguished representative of China to take the floor.
(87) Chine (traduit de chinois):   Merci, Monsieur le Président. La Chine soutient l’ajournement de l’examen de cette question. Nous estimons que les  conditions ne sont pas encore réunies pour que soit envisagée l’admission du Kosovo à l’UNESCO, d’autant que le Conseil de  sécurité de l’ONU a déjà adopté une résolution sur ce point. L’admission du Kosovo à l’UNESCO compromettrait le processus  de dialogue pragmatique et constructif que les parties concernées par le problème du Kosovo ont déjà engagé. Elle ne  contribuerait pas non plus à la fonction positive de l’UNESCO, qui est de contribuer à la paix et à la sécurité dans le monde et  de promouvoir le développement durable. Merci.
88. The President:    Thank you very much. I now invite the distinguished representative of Mexico to take the floor.
(89) Mexique (traduit de l’espagnol) :   Merci, Monsieur le Président. Le Mexique appuie la motion d’ajournement de l’examen de la demande d’admission  du Kosovo comme État membre de l’Organisation des Nations Unies pour l’éducation, la science et la culture. Selon mon  Gouvernement, cette demande d’admission n’est pas conforme à la résolution 1244 (1999) du Conseil de sécurité de l’ONU.  La proposition de reconnaître le Kosovo comme appartenant au système des Nations Unies par le biais de son admission au  sein de l’UNESCO préjuge en outre des discussions qui se déroulent entre les parties et que le Gouvernement du Mexique  espère voir arriver à une conclusion favorisant la stabilité de la région. Je vous remercie, Monsieur le Président.
90. The President:    Thank you very much. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, I invite the Dominican Republic to explain its vote. You  have the floor.
(91) République dominicaine (traduit de l’espagnol) :   Merci, Monsieur le Président. La République dominicaine s’oppose à l’ajournement de l’entrée du Kosovo au sein de  l’Organisation et se dit favorable à ce que la Conférence générale, à sa 38e session, examine ce thème et se prononce à ce  sujet. Nous estimons avec le Royaume-Uni que ne pas tenir compte d’une recommandation explicite du Conseil exécutif de  l’UNESCO créerait un précédent regrettable. Par-dessus tout, nous sommes convaincus que le dialogue entre la Serbie et le  Kosovo se trouvera nettement favorisé par l’entrée du Kosovo à l’UNESCO, car celle-ci garantira l’amélioration des conditions  de ce dialogue. Il est essentiel à nos yeux que le Kosovo, depuis l’UNESCO et avec son appui, puisse favoriser ce dialogue.  Merci beaucoup.
92. The President:    Thank you very much. Having gone through the lengthy list we will now proceed with the roll-call vote. Let me  remind you that according to Rule 83 of the Rules of Procedure of the General Conference, the decision that will be  voted on requires a simple majority of the Members present and voting. May I also remind you that in accordance with  Rule 85 of the Rules of Procedure, the expression “Members present and voting” means Members casting an affirmative  or a negative vote. Members who abstain from voting are considered “non-voters”. The Secretary will now call on each  Member State in French alphabetical order, beginning with Angola, whose name was drawn by lot at the 196th session  of the Executive Board as the first member in that order for this General Conference. In addition, following the decision  taken by the General Conference on Saturday, the names of the nine Member States that were declared as having no  right to vote in this General Conference will not be called upon to vote. The voting Members, which the Secretary will call  on, shall vote on whether they are in favour of the proposal to adjourn the debate on this matter until the next session of  the General Conference, meaning the 39th session. Those in favour should loudly say “yes”, those against should again  loudly say “no”. Member States that wish to abstain must state their intent equally. Finally, I wish to remind you that, in  accordance with Rule 88, after the President has announced the beginning of voting, no one shall interrupt the voting  except on a point of order in connection with the actual conduct of the voting. The vote begins now. Mr Secretary, please  call on each voting Member State.
93. A vote by roll-call is taken.
94. Bahamas:   Bahamas wishes to vote “no”. Bahamas wishes to change its vote from a “yes” to a “no”.
95. The President:    Thank you very much. Can we please have some order. I will have to request the Legal Adviser to carefully  examine the request from the Bahamas and see whether it is legally permissible. Madam Legal Adviser you have the  floor.
96. Legal Adviser:   Thank you Mr President. After a vote has been made during a roll-call vote it is not possible to change it. Thank  you.
97. The President:   Thank you very much. Distinguished representative of the Bahamas, in terms of the Rules of Procedure, once  you have voted, the vote cannot be changed. That is the ruling unfortunately.
98. Bahamas:   We drew your attention to this during the vote. We thought that we should not interrupt and should draw your  attention immediately afterwards to the fact that there was a misunderstanding of the question.
99.1 The President:    I am very sorry, distinguished representative of the Bahamas. The vote has already been taken. I do hear your  explanation but legally speaking, we have an obligation to take your initial vote. Thank you very much. May the  Secretariat now tally all the votes.
99.2 The votes have now been counted. I now give the floor to the Secretary of the General Conference to announce  the results.
100. Les résultats du vote sont les suivants :   Votent pour: Afrique du Sud, Algérie, Angola, Argentine, Arménie, Bahamas, Bélarus, Bolivie, Botswana, Brésil,  Chili, Chine, Chypre, Colombie, Congo, Cuba, Equateur, Erythrée Espagne, Ethiopie, Fédération de Russie, Géorgie,  Grèce, Guatemala, Guinée équatoriale, Haïti, Inde, Indonésie, Jamaïque, Kazakhstan, Kenya, Kirghizistan, Maroc,  Maurice, Mexique, Mozambique, Myanmar, Namibie, Nicaragua, Ouganda, Palestine, Paraguay, Philippines, République  de Moldova, République démocratique du Congo, République démocratique populaire lao, République démocratique de  Corée, Roumanie, Serbie, Slovaquie, Soudan du Sud, Sri Lanka, Suriname, République arabe syrienne, Tunisie,  Uruguay, Venezuela, Zambie, Zimbabwe.   Votent contre: Afghanistan, Albanie, Allemagne, Andorre, Arabie saoudite, Australie, Autriche, Bahreïn,  Belgique, Belize, Bénin, Brunéi Darussalam, Bulgarie, Burkina Faso, Canada, Costa Rica, Côte d’Ivoire, Croatie,  Danemark, Djibouti, El Salvador, Emirats arabes unis, Estonie, ex-République yougoslave de Macédoine, Fidji, Finlande,  France, Gabon, Gambie, Ghana, Grenade, Guinée, Guyana, Honduras, Hongrie, îles Cook, îles Salomon, Irlande,  Islande, Italie, Jordanie, Koweït, Lesotho, Lettonie, Libéria, Libye, Lituanie, Luxembourg, Malaisie, Malawi, Monaco,  Monténégro, Nauru, Niger, Norvège, Nouvelle-Zélande, Oman, Pakistan, Palaos, Panama, Papouasie-Nouvelle-Guinée,  Pays-Bas, Pologne, Qatar, République dominicaine, République tchèque, République-Unie de Tanzanie, Royaume-Uni  de Grande-Bretagne et d’Irlande du Nord, Rwanda, Saint-Kitts-et-Nevis, Saint-Marin, Saint-Vincent-et-les-Grenadines,  Sainte-Lucie, Samoa, Sénégal, Sierra Leone, Slovénie, Somalie, Soudan, Suède, Suisse, Tchad, Timor Leste, Togo,  Tonga, Turquie, Tuvalu, Vanuatu, Yémen.   S’abstiennent: Bangladesh, Barbade, Bhoutan, Bosnie-Herzégovine, Burundi, Cameroun, Egypte, Guinée- Bissau, Japon, Liban, Mali, Népal, Nigéria, Pérou, Portugal, République centrafricaine, République de Corée,  Seychelles, Singapour, Thaïlande, Trinité-et-Tobago, Viet Nam.   Absents: Azerbaïdjan, Cabo Verde, Cambodge, îles Marshall, Iran (République islamique d’), Iraq,  Madagascar, Maldives, Malte, Mauritanie, Mongolie, Ouzbékistan, Swaziland, Tadjikistan, Turkménistan, Ukraine.
101. The Secretary:   Thank you, Mr President. The number of Members present and voting is 170. The number of votes in favour is
59, the number of votes against is 89, the number of abstentions is 22. The majority required is 75. Thank you,  Mr President.
102. The President:    Thank you very much ladies and gentlemen. That outcome clearly indicates that the move to adjourn the debate  is not carried, and that being the case we need to go back to considering the draft resolution on this particular issue. At  the particular moment in time when the motion of adjournment was tabled I was on the verge of inviting one of the co- sponsors to introduce the draft resolution. I now invite Albania to do so. You have the floor for three minutes. Thank you  very much.
103.1 Albania:   Mr President, Albania submitted the draft resolution on the admission of Kosovo to UNESCO. This request is  about making a further step away from the dividing lines and walls of the past. It is about inclusiveness. It is our  responsibility as good neighbours to always strengthen cooperation as an instrument to foster security. South-east  Europe is today a much more stable, developed and integrated region than ever before. Kosovo’s successful  membership in major international bodies such as the International Monetary Fund (IMF) and World Bank and regional  organizations has given true meaning to the idea of regional cooperation. Most recently the signing of the stabilization  and association agreement with the European Union has firmly anchored Kosovo in European waters.
103.2 In this regard I would like to draw your attention to the open letter recently sent by former United Nations  administrators of Kosovo clearly supportive of Kosovo’s membership of UNESCO. They testify to the country’s  tremendous progress thanks to the actions of the United Nations. Many are also the voices in our region that express  clear support for Kosovo’s bid. In fact many of those voices are from Serbia, such as the President of the Helsinki  Committee, highlighting that, first, the integration of Kosovo into the international community has brought peace, stability  and development in the region, and second, Albanians and Serbs alike deserve the chance to better interact with others  and contribute to the promotion of mutual understanding and respect. UNESCO could help Kosovo’s people to address  social and ethical challenges, and foster cultural diversity and intercultural dialogue.
103.3 Kosovo’s membership of UNESCO will no doubt create additional support for better dialogue between Kosovo  and Serbia. A vote in favour of Kosovo joining UNESCO is not a vote that will bring politics into UNESCO’s work. It is not  a request for recognition of its statehood; it is not a request to join the United Nations. Kosovo’s request to join UNESCO  is first of all about promoting universal values through education, science and culture. Secondly, it is a vote that would
274  grant Kosovo and its people full access to the valuable work of UNESCO, and finally, it is a vote that would support  UNESCO’s mission. Therefore, the real question today is whether we want to embrace a new member amongst us in  order to further promote peace and security, education in collaboration, human rights and religious harmony in a region  which until recently was plagued by wars, strife and tensions. The answer can only be a resounding yes. Dear friends,  Albania calls on all UNESCO Member States to vote in favour of the request by Kosovo to join the UNESCO family.  Thank you.
104. The President:    Thank you very much, Your Excellency, for the introduction. Is there any other Member State that wishes to take  the floor? Serbia please.
105. Serbia:   I will take this opportunity to recall once again that under United Nations Security Council resolution 1244 (1999)  Kosovo and Metojiha constitute the territory of the Republic of Serbia under the interim administration of the United  Nations where the United Nations Interim Administration Mission in Kosovo (UNMIK) continues to be active today.  Therefore it is not a State. All this testifies to the fact that the application for admission by the so-called Republic of  Kosovo is unprecedented in UNESCO’s history thus far. By opposing this act, Serbia is defending international law, the  Charter of the United Nations and the United Nations Security Council as the supreme authority for safeguarding  international peace and security. These principles must be fully respected, for only in this way will the existing system of  international relations found in the Charters of the United Nations be preserved and the universal character of  international law maintained. We call for a roll-call vote on the proposed draft resolution, and please vote against.
106. The President:   Thank you very much. I see that the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland has requested the  floor. You have the floor.
107. United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland:   Thank you Mr President. The United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland is pleased that the previous  motion to postpone consideration failed. We would like to note that there would be something very strange about a world  where Kosovo was able to be a member of the International Olympic Committee but not a member of the Organization  that is against doping, where Kosovo would be able to be a member of the World Bank and the International Monetary  Fund (IMF), which deal with economic policy, but not a member of an organization like UNESCO which helps them deal  with social policies. So we will vote in favour of Kosovo’s membership. Mr President, I propose to ask you now to close  the debate. I think we have heard all the arguments and can move straight to the roll-call vote.
108. The President:   Thank you very much. Is the proposal seconded to close the debate? It is indeed seconded. Thank you very  much. Mr Secretary, you may proceed with the roll-call.
109. Il est procédé au vote par appel nominal. Les résultats du vote sont les suivants :   Votent pour : Afghanistan, Albanie, Allemagne, Andorre, Australie, Autriche, Bahamas, Bahreïn, Belgique,  Belize, Bénin, Brunéi Darussalam, Bulgarie, Burkina Faso, Canada, Costa Rica, Côte d’Ivoire, Croatie, Danemark,  Djibouti, El Salvador, Emirats arabes unis, Estonie, ex-République yougoslave de Macédoine, Fidji, Finlande,  France,  Gabon, Gambie, Ghana, Grenade, Guinée, Guyana, Haïti, Honduras, Hongrie, îles Cook, îles Salomon, Irlande, Islande,  Italie, Jordanie, Koweït, Lesotho, Lettonie, Libéria, Libye, Lituanie, Luxembourg, Malaisie, Malawi, Malte, Monaco,  Monténégro, Nauru, Niger, Norvège, Nouvelle-Zélande, Oman, Pakistan, Palaos, Panama, Papouasie-Nouvelle-Guinée,  Pays-Bas, Portugal, Qatar, République dominicaine, République tchèque, République-Unie de Tanzanie, Royaume-Uni  de Grande-Bretagne et d’Irlande du Nord, Rwanda, Saint-Kitts-et-Nevis, Saint-Marin, Sainte-Lucie, Samoa, Sénégal,  Sierra Leone, Slovénie, Somalie, Soudan, Suède, Suisse, Tchad, Thaïlande, Timor Leste, Togo, Tonga, Turquie, Tuvalu,  Vanuatu, Yémen.   Votent contre : Afrique du Sud, Angola, Arabie saoudite, Argentine, Arménie, Bélarus, Bolivie, Botswana,  Brésil, Chili, Chine, Chypre, Congo, Cuba, Equateur, Erythrée Espagne, Ethiopie, Fédération de Russie, Géorgie,  Guatemala, Guinée équatoriale, Inde, Indonésie, Kazakhstan, Kirghizistan, Liban, Maroc, Maurice, Mexique,  Mozambique, Myanmar, Namibie, Nicaragua, Ouganda, Palestine, Paraguay, Philippines, République de Moldova,  République démocratique du Congo, République démocratique populaire lao, République démocratique de Corée,  Serbie, Slovaquie, Soudan du Sud, Sri Lanka, Suriname, République arabe syrienne, Uruguay, Venezuela, Zimbabwe.   S’abstiennent : Algérie, Bangladesh, Barbade, Bhoutan, Bosnie-Herzégovine, Burundi, Cameroun, Colombie,  Egypte, Grèce, Guinée-Bissau, Jamaïque, Japon, Kenya, Mali, Népal, Nigéria, Pérou, Pologne, République  centrafricaine, République de Corée, Roumanie, Saint-Vincent-et-les-Grenadines, Seychelles, Singapour, Trinité-et- Tobago, Tunisie, Viet Nam, Zambie.   Absents : Azerbaïdjan, Cabo Verde, Cambodge, îles Marshall, Iran (République islamique d’), Iraq,  Madagascar, Maldives, Mauritanie, Mongolie, Ouzbékistan, Swaziland, Tadjikistan, Turkménistan, Ukraine.
110. The Secretary:   Thank you, Mr President. Number of Members present and voting: 142; number of votes in favour: 92; number  of votes against: 50; number of abstentions: 29; majority required: 95. Thank you.
111. The President:   Thank you very much, Mr Secretary. I know that you are still trying to absorb the outcome of the vote,  Excellencies, but can I have your attention once again, please? Ladies and gentlemen, the General Conference has thus
275  voted against the adoption of the draft resolution that is contained in document 38 C/PLEN/DR.1. That is the decision of  this session of the General Conference. Ladies and gentlemen, we have thus come to the end of our deliberations this  morning. May I remind you again that the plenary will meet this afternoon at 5.30 p.m. to hear the addresses of His  Excellency, Mr Evo Morales Ayma, President of the Plurinational State of Bolivia, and His Excellency, Mr Jorge Carlos de  Almeida Fonseca, President of the Republic of Cabo Verde. May I request that all of you be here in your seats by 5.15  p.m. so that we can welcome the distinguished and honourable guests. The meeting is now adjourned.  The meeting rose at 1.35 p.m.  La séance est levée à 13 h 35  Se levanta la sesión a las 13.35  Заседание закрывается в 13.35  بعد الظهر ١,٣٥رفعت اسلسة يف الساعة    会议于 13 时 35 分结束