1.1 La Présidente :  Excellences, Mesdames et Messieurs, je déclare ouverte la quatrième séance plénière de la Conférence  générale.   (La Présidente poursuit en anglais)
1.2 Excellencies, Heads of State and Government, Your Royal Highness, Princess Lalla Meryem of Morocco,  Madam Director-General of UNESCO, honourable Ministers and heads of delegation, ladies and gentlemen. This  morning we initiated a constructive exchange, nourished by the reflections and experience of world leaders. Through  their strategic orientations, the Heads of State and Government have come to guide UNESCO’s action at a time when  the Organization needs to be particularly responsive to the multifaceted challenges facing our societies. The President of  the United Nations General Assembly recalled how close the links are between UNESCO and the United Nations, and  how important it is to strengthen partnerships further in order to meet the needs set out in the 2030 Agenda for  Sustainable Development. The Prime Minister of Madagascar stressed how much States must invest in education to  ensure the implementation of the 2030 Agenda, particularly to meet the challenge of youth unemployment in Africa. The  member of the Presidency of Bosnia and Herzegovina highlighted the importance of intercultural dialogue and, through it,  cultural heritage as a symbol of the power of culture to connect communities. In turn, the Vice-President of Afghanistan  recalled how much UNESCO and his country have worked together to strengthen quality education, especially for girls,  to promote freedom of information and reaffirm the power of Afghan culture as a tool for cohesion and peacebuilding.  This afternoon, I am sure that you too will be able to enrich the dialogue with the respective experiences of your  countries. You will demonstrate that UNESCO’s mandate remains essential for the achievement of the Sustainable  Development Goals and that multilateralism is crucial for their successful implementation.  (The President continues in French)
1.3 Excellences, Mesdames et Messieurs, il faut savoir « relier l’homme à l’homme », selon l’expression d’Aimé  Césaire. Et c’est bien la mission de l’UNESCO. Avant de continuer et de donner la parole aux éminents orateurs qui se  prononceront dans le cadre de ce Forum des dirigeants, je voudrais partager avec vous tous ma très grande émotion de  voir la délégation de mon pays être présidée par une grande dame, une personnalité hors pair, pour laquelle j’ai énor- mément d’admiration et de respect, et qui est Son Altesse Royale la Princesse Lalla Meryem. Son Altesse Royale est  Ambassadeur de bonne volonté de l’UNESCO depuis 2001 et elle est extrêmement impliquée dans la promotion des  droits de la femme et de l’enfant. Votre Altesse Royale, je peux vous dire que vous avez été mon modèle et je tenais à  vous le dire publiquement. Nous allons maintenant poursuivre notre discussion dans le cadre du Forum des dirigeants.   (La Présidente poursuit en anglais)
1.4 Ladies and gentlemen, honourable delegates, our first distinguished speaker this afternoon comes from the  Cook Islands – a South Pacific country almost exactly halfway around the world from Paris. Although not a member of  the United Nations, Cook Islands has been a proud Member State of UNESCO for almost three decades and a strong  advocate for its mission. Our speaker this afternoon, Mr Henry Puna, exemplifies this. As the founding member of the  Polynesian Leaders Group, he brings together eight countries of the region to cooperate in the fields of education, culture,  environmental conservation and climate change adaptation. Your Excellency, we are honoured to welcome you back to  UNESCO, and eager to hear your address. The floor is yours.
2.1  Mr Puna (Prime Minister of the Cook Islands):   Excellencies, Madam President of the General Conference, Mr Chairperson of the Executive Board, Madam  Director-General, Heads of State and Government, Your Royal Highness, Honourable Ministers and Ambassadors,  distinguished delegates, ladies and gentlemen, while preparing to address you today, the Secretary-General of our  National Commission reminded me of her report on the highly successful interregional meeting of National Commissions  in Shanghai last year. At that meeting, I am sure many of you recall, Member States discussed with their regional  colleagues exactly what we are discussing today – what is UNESCO’s role in the new global agenda? To which  sustainable development goals does UNESCO contribute? And where should the focus be? The reflections from within  the Asia and the Pacific group were that while UNESCO obviously responded to those of its direct mandate such as  Sustainable Development Goal (SDG) 4 on education, SDG 5 on gender, the work of the International Hydrological  Programme (IHP) on SDG 6 on water and sanitation, or the role of the Communication and Information (CI) Sector and  the Social and Human Sciences (SHS) Sector programmes in contributing to SDG 16, for example, the stark reality is  this – UNESCO contributes to all the goals of our global agenda. So the question has to be asked: how can UNESCO  best contribute and support all countries to achieve the Sustainable Development Goals? What is its particular role and  place?
2.2 In terms of the targets of the SDGs, we are all at very different starting points – we all have our strengths and  weaknesses, our challenges and opportunities. There is no “one-size-fits-all” response. We are therefore better, in my  view, considering UNESCO’s strength and contribution through specific underlying principles of the SDG agenda and  how they can be part of UNESCO’s approach at the programme level. I would therefore like to focus my comments today
53  on the underlying principles of national ownership, inclusiveness, integration, interlinkages and multilateral stakeholder  partnerships – all of which refer to approaches and modalities. At this juncture, allow me please to share with you a chant  from my ancestors:   Eia ngaru e tu i Ruakakau nei e Iro?   Tuatini tuamano tini  E tai i te rau ma iva  Uriuri i tana uriuri   Pokipoki i tana pokipoki  E pupui ki te niu  E raranga ki te vaka  Tiranga ki te karakia  Ka eke ia ngaru....e Iro e...
2.3 Ladies and gentlemen, this chant speaks of the seafarer Iro who is looking to bring his vaka, his canoe, which is  carrying his people, through the passage in the reefs and onto land. It talks of being prepared, of being patient, of  watching the waves closely, watching the currents and the totality of the environment. It talks of preparing yourself and  others to work together to go safely through the passage. It speaks of identifying problems, issues, challenges and  opportunities and working together to address them in order to safely reach land. It draws on the value of experience and  practices from the past, and of being willing to ask others for advice and knowledge. It is about everyone working  together, with a shared understanding of their goal. It is about people understanding their role and how, by collaborating  with others, the desired outcome is reached for all. As a Pacific island, our vaka and voyaging are very important to us.  The concept of voyaging, of learning from our environment, of accepting the wisdom and understanding of those that  have gone before us and of working with nature underpins many aspects of our lives. We speak of our vaka, our canoe,  to help define who we are and the voyage that we are on as individuals, communities and as a nation. I would like to take  you with me for a few minutes, to come on a journey and imagine that we are all together in a canoe, out in the ocean,  looking to make our way safely to shore.
2.4 I was honoured last June to present Marae Moana, our Cook Islands marine park, comprising all 2 million  square kilometres of our exclusive economic zone, to a global audience in New York at the United Nations Conference to  Support the Implementation of Sustainable Development Goal 14: Conserve and sustainably use the oceans, seas and  marine resources for sustainable development. Marae Moana provides the Cook Islands with the necessary framework  to promote sustainable development by balancing economic growth interests, such as tourism, fishing and deep-sea  mining, with conserving core biodiversity and the natural assets of our ocean, our reefs and our islands. After extensive  consultations with our communities over a period of five long years, my Government was privileged to pass the Marae  Moana Act through Parliament, unopposed, in early July. We are now working together with our traditional leaders, local  government and our communities to determine the wide parameters of our Marae Moana park. The legislation aims to  sustain our livelihoods by protecting species and ecosystems, as well as the cultural heritage that we have inherited from  our forefathers and will pass on to future generations. Marae Moana demonstrates the principles of the Sustainable  Development Goals, which I would like to address in order to illustrate those principles in the role and work of UNESCO.  The Marae Moana legislation covers all the islands of the Cook Islands, but it also enables the local government and  leaders of each island to develop their own island marine plan, with the assistance of legislated technical guidance and  support. This sets up the potential for diverse approaches to marine management, based on an island's specific  environmental conditions and its community’s unique situation. It thus passes ownership at an island level to the people  of that island, empowering them to take management decisions at the local level. In a similar vein, the intent of the  Sustainable Development Goals is that they are to be integrated into national planning, policies and strategies.  Supporting such work will be a fundamental task for UNESCO going forward. Much easier said than done, some of you  might say. There is huge diversity among the starting points of Member States both across and within the goals. In  developing their own plans, UNESCO programme sectors will need to ensure a modality of working from the ground up,  finding the points of commonality while supporting individual results, much like a teacher planning a lesson for a class of  different levels and different learning styles.
2.5 Facilitating nationally developed responses, rather than presenting already designed programmes, is key. We  have seen this approach in our region. I speak specifically to the work of the education programme, led by the UNESCO  Office in Bangkok, which has taken the lead in supporting countries in the Asia and the Pacific region in mapping out  their own plans under Sustainable Development Goal 4 and the Education 2030 Agenda. In the conversations that occur  around this work, countries are identifying for themselves the places where they can share practices and outcomes. They  are identifying gaps and supporting each other in finding ways to respond to those needs, based on each country’s  context. This facilitative approach is going to be particularly important to target 4.7, where responses will need to come  from the communities of our young people, as the Goal gives them the skills to navigate the world ahead.
2.6 Closer to home, in the Pacific, a small working group of senior education officials is developing the next regional  education framework as a conduit between Education 2030 and our individual countries, in the spirit of regionalism. What  is important here is that this is the first time that the countries themselves have undertaken to develop the plan, rather  than external consultants paid to deliver a product. It is being owned by the countries. UNESCO acts as the secretariat to  the Pacific Heads of Education Systems, and has been supportive of such an approach. Creating the space and  supporting countries to work in this way and facilitating problem-solving with countries, or clusters of countries, to find  their own solutions will be very important if the work that UNESCO undertakes is to be sustainable and relevant beyond  the Education 2030 Agenda. As Member States, we also have a responsibility. We need to be open about where we  need support; we should not hide things that have not worked but put them out there for all to see and ask others for
54  suggestions and advice. Likewise, when a country is successful in its approach, it should not be worrying about others  copying it and “getting ahead” but putting it out there for all to celebrate and learn from.
2.7 Marae Moana recognizes the interconnectedness of our ocean. Our land, sea and sky are all connected;  whatever has an impact on one has an impact on the other. For sustainable development, in developing a response to  one area all of the interconnecting areas must also be considered to ensure they can support the intended activity and,  more importantly, will not be harmed by it. Strong institutional arrangements are needed for the information-sharing and  regular dialogue that lead to tangible outcomes through an integrated approach. Intersectoral work within UNESCO will  become more and more important in this approach. Working in silos will achieve little. A multidisciplinary, interlinked and  integrated approach is more efficient and effective. Our ocean represents this perfectly with the work around Sustainable  Development Goal 14, having so many linkages across programme areas of UNESCO. But it is not the only Goal that  presents itself this way, as you cannot consider the Goal on poverty eradication without considering gender and youth, or  on climate action without considering water and sanitation, education and culture. The UNESCO taskforce, set up to  ensure an effective approach by the agency, will need to constantly reflect on the interconnectedness of the Goals and  the need to integrate responses. It will also need to reflect on where working with other multilateral agencies with  intersecting mandates may lead to efficiencies. It is our role as Member States to help in these conversations, to provide  data and feedback so that informed decisions can be made. I recognize that participating in this way is a commitment;  someone in a relevant agency in your country is going to coordinate responses to a UNESCO Institute for Statistics (UIS)  survey or other request for information. There may be a need for training or the development of infrastructure to help with  the collection of data. But, ladies and gentlemen, without this we cannot expect the agency to make good, informed,  decisions, develop plans that will be effective and instigate new initiatives. When the Global Education Monitoring Report  or the World Science Report are published, these are our reports, our stories. We all need to be a part of that.
2.8 The Marae Moana policy invokes transparency, social responsibility and consultation. The institutional  arrangements ensure the inclusion of all development sectors and societal groups. There is a specific mention of  inclusiveness in relation to gender and youth. Our challenge in developing Marae Moana was to shape the work in such  a way that all of our islands could define what it was to be. We needed to create cohesion and inclusiveness while  recognizing and celebrating diversity. We must take inclusivity to another level. Open any document about the  Sustainable Development Goals online and do a search on the word “inclusive”. Never before has this message been so  strong. Inclusive education (Goal 4); inclusive societies (Goal 16); inclusive health-promoting environments (Goal 3);  inclusive science, technology and innovation policies and systems (Goals 7 and 9); inclusive public policy (Goal 10);  inclusive sustainable cities (Goal 11). My question to all of us here today is this: are we recognizing inclusion in our own  national plans to the same extent? With such a mandate, a shared understanding of what we mean by “inclusive” – and it  is not just the lack of exclusion – is required. The linkages between the economic, environmental and social domains  have never been so important. It is those linkages that will create social transformation. How we have historically worked  to be “inclusive” may no longer be the right approach. Targeted interventions may address a particular aspect of concern  but broader coverage will build understanding and ownership, creating solidarity in working towards a goal. Participation  and empowerment are the critical drivers of inclusive sustainable development. This does not mean simply offering an  opportunity to participate but building the capacity of society to take up that opportunity, and to be part of decision- making and exercising influence. This is going to create some challenges to many institutional structures, at both the  country level and in multilateral agencies. The strength of UNESCO here lies in its humanist approach and mandate, with  human rights and dignity as the starting points for UNESCO action. For when we start with the intent to create, to treat all  with dignity no matter who they are or where they come from, we will be working towards inclusion.
2.9 Partnership is one of the key Marae Moana strategic objectives. Partnerships are sought at all levels and across,  as well as between, islands and communities. These partnerships are not just within the Cook Islands but also with  others that have an interest in realizing the objectives of Marae Moana. At this juncture, I am pleased to acknowledge the  assistance of so many international partners in our journey, such as Conservation International, Oceans 5, the  International Union for Conservation of Nature (IUCN), the Waitt Foundation and Jack Dangermond and the  Environmental Systems Research Institute (ESRI), as well as our regional partners, such as the Secretariat of the Pacific  Regional Environment Programme (SPREP) and the Secretariat of the Pacific Community (SPC). UNESCO already has  a strength in this area through its mandate to convene, broker and facilitate partnerships. The work of the SDG- Education 2030 Steering Committee or the Intergovernmental Oceanographic Commission (IOC) on Goal 14 clearly  demonstrates the role and capacity that UNESCO has in this area. The Sustainable Development Goals will require new  partnerships as well as new ways of looking at partnerships that already exist. However, if the other principles of the  Goals to which I have already referred are upheld, the principle of working in partnership will surely come to fruition. As  Member States, we are UNESCO; we are part of such partnerships. I accept, at times, some may be prepared to place  limitations on us but I do not accept that we should impose limitations on ourselves. Remember, we are on a journey.  What we discuss, debate, decide and agree upon in the next two weeks is part of that journey. There will be  achievements to be celebrated and setbacks to be endured and learned from. Those setbacks will be an important part  of our journey. They will help to shape what UNESCO is as an organization and how, as Member States, we contribute  to the evolving maturity and growth of our beloved Organization. We can be the voyager Iro and bring our vaka safely to  shore, with everybody playing their part and everybody achieving their goal. We cannot solve the challenges of our time  unless we solve them together. We may have differing opinions and views but we all hold the common hope for the well- being of our own people, our neighbours and the world as a whole.
2.10 In closing, we should not be asking these questions or have those expectations of UNESCO unless we also ask  them and place them upon ourselves, and respond to them to the best of our ability and capacity. As the Cook Islands,  we are finding our own answers, which change as we navigate both our own, and the global, changing landscape. But  we adapt, we share our experiences, we work with our environment, we work together and we paddle together to the
55  shore. Let us all go on this journey together, learning as we go and building relationships, supporting each other and  working collectively to achieve the goals that we all desire for ourselves. May God bless us all is my prayer. Thank you  for your attention.
3.  The President:   Thank you, Your Excellency. Ladies and gentlemen, we will hear now the statement of Mr Boil Banov, Minister  of Culture and Special Representative of the Government of Bulgaria. Bulgaria has been a strong supporter of UNESCO,  contributing to a number of activities related to the Education 2030 Agenda, protection of the cultural heritage, youth  empowerment and Priority Africa. His Excellency Mr Boil Banov, as Minister of Culture, has made the preservation of the  cultural eheritage one of his key priorities. Your Excellency, we are delighted to welcome you today. The floor is yours.
4.1 Mr Banov (Minister of Culture of Bulgaria) (interpretation from Bulgarian):    Madam Director-General, Excellencies, ladies and gentlemen, to begin with I would like to send you all warm  greetings from the Government of Bulgaria. I wish you all every success at this session of the General Conference and I  wish our President of the General Conference every success as well. I must say that it is a great honour for me to be  here with leaders from around the world. It is an excellent opportunity for all of us to share our views and to speak about  what UNESCO represents for all of us. I think that what sets this organization apart from other international organizations,  and its contribution to the international community, is something that we need to focus on. For UNESCO is a unique  international organization. In its Constitution, it states that UNESCO was set up to build the defences of peace in the  minds of men. One of its main mandates is to spread values of humanism, but despite our utmost efforts we live in a  world where there is greater instability, aggression, conflict, and warfare. There are many opportunities, but also very  serious threats that threaten the very survival of our species, and this is why we need to make very responsible decisions,  for the future of humankind is at stake.
4.2 UNESCO here must play an ever more active role. The new 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development, which  was adopted in September 2015 at the United Nations, is a turning point in our development agenda. I think we are all  convinced that sustainable development is impossible without lasting peace. Over many years, artists, philosophers,  writers, and Nobel Prize laureates have come out and expressed their support for UNESCO in education, science,  culture and communication. I would also like to mention the UNESCO Goodwill Ambassadors and the successive  Directors-General who have made the Organization what it is today.
4.3 Bulgaria is very proud to have been a member of UNESCO since 1957. From the very outset we were deeply  convinced that this was a unique intellectual and humanitarian organization, a veritable laboratory of ideas and  innovative practices. This is an organization that has taken innovative initiatives in education, culture, science and in the  field of youth. This is the foundation upon which UNESCO was built. UNESCO has adopted a holistic approach to  education, and this is what will make it possible for us to have a model for sustainable development. The ethical and  moral principles that underpin this approach stand in contrast to discrimination, racism, social exclusion and violence. In  order to foster the development of education, and education throughout life as well as equal access to quality education,  it is essential for us to move beyond narrow economic interests or utilitarianism in order to develop true humanitarian  values, and I think this is where UNESCO’s true strength lies.
4.4 Throughout history UNESCO has always upheld the idea that culture is what shapes our identity and our self- image. Safeguarding monuments of culture is something that is most urgent. We have thousands of years of human  civilizations and cultures that still subsist, and we would not know who we were or who we are without those cultures. All  of these artefacts of human history should be preserved and all generations must understand why the building of a  temple or a city 1,000 years ago is far more than simply putting stones on top of one another, for they reflect peoples’  faith, their hopes, their aspirations and the hard work of those who built those temples and cities.
4.5 Intercultural dialogue, the safeguarding of cultural heritage – be it tangible or intangible – all of this is the  bedrock upon which sustainable development will occur. Thanks to UNESCO, many monuments of human civilization  have been preserved – natural parks, folklore, and folk traditions have been preserved as well. Safeguarding all of these  monuments of culture for future generations is something that is not an end in itself. It is important that we all recognize  the huge efforts that were undertaken by those who came before us so that we can set our sights ever higher. UNESCO  is the standard bearer. UNESCO will enable our contemporaries to accept the concept of multicultural dialogue. As a  specialized agency of the United Nations, UNESCO must assume its responsibilities and fight against intolerance by  building peace in the minds of men. In fact, throughout its entire existence UNESCO has taken a very direct role in what  is going on in the Middle East and has done a great deal to protect the cultural heritage in that part of the world.  UNESCO stands against those who would not respect human dignity in all its forms. United Nations Security Council  resolution 2347 (2017), which was adopted this year at UNESCO's behest and the Director-General's initiative, confirms  that UNESCO is the United Nations lead agency in many of these fields. Bulgaria supports UNESCO’s and the United  Nations’ efforts to preserve cultural heritage, because without that cultural heritage we lose sight of our past. All  civilizations and all cultures have something useful to contribute to humankind as a whole. The protection of cultural  heritage is also a humanitarian issue. It is an issue of security. It is a key tool to ensure lasting peace and development.  Cultural pluralism is a source of richness rather than being an obstacle or a hindrance. This is what will help us to fight  against hatred and those who would divide us against one another.
4.6 The United Nations and UNESCO have undertaken so many activities in the field of culture. We have seen the  International Decade for the Rapprochement of Cultures (2013-2022), we have the strengthening of intercultural dialogue  endorsed by the General Assembly, International Year for the Culture of Peace, the anniversary of the UNESCO  Universal Declaration on Cultural Diversity, United Nations Year of Dialogue among Civilizations, and of course the 2030  Agenda for Sustainable Development. The Organization is becoming more modernized and its activities are gaining in
56  visibility. It has a global approach in all of its spheres of competence and its voice is being heard louder and stronger  around the world in its call to protect the environment. UNESCO is paying attention to issues relating to climate change.  It has the network of biosphere reserves. All of this aims to ensure the security and sustainable development of our  species. UNESCO works hand-in-hand with other organizations in order to tap into synergies, to usher in a phase of  sustainable development, and we have seen constant progress in this area.
4.7 In 2009, my country presented the name of Irina Bokova as candidate to occupy the position of Director-General  of the Organization, and since that time she has been at the helm, completing her two terms thanks to her experience  and expertise and playing a very firm and active role. She has continued to make the Organization one of the most  influential and important organizations around the world. Ms Bokova is the first representative of eastern Europe to hold  this position, and she is also the first woman to hold the position of Director-General. As such, she has served as a  model and a source of inspiration for women around the world. She is an example of a woman who has managed to  succeed in international politics and in the fight for gender equality.
5. La Présidente :   Excellences, Mesdames et Messieurs, il y a cinq ans, nous avions tous été profondément choqués par les  événements dans l’ancienne ville de Tombouctou, où les terroristes ont détruit 14 des 16 mausolées inscrits sur la Liste  du patrimoine mondial de l'UNESCO. Le patrimoine culturel a été systématiquement attaqué, parce qu’il est porteur de  valeurs et d’identités. Mais la culture est aussi une force de résilience. C'est la raison pour laquelle il était si important de  reconstruire les sites détruits. La campagne internationale de mobilisation lancée par le Gouvernement malien et  l’UNESCO a permis de reconstruire les mausolées et la porte sacrée de la mosquée de Sidi Yahia, et de mettre à l’abri  les manuscrits anciens, qui font partie de l’histoire de l’humanité. En plus de la réussite de ce programme, le procès d’Al  Faqi a pu se tenir et aboutir à sa condamnation. Il s'agit de la première fois que la Cour pénale internationale inculpe une  personne pour crime de guerre relatif à l’attaque d’édifices religieux ou de monuments historiques. C’est un symbole fort  pour le Mali et le monde entier, qui a été possible grâce à la solidarité internationale pilotée par l’UNESCO et le soutien  indéfectible du Gouvernement du Mali, en particulier de S. E. M. Ibrahim Boubacar Keïta, que nous sommes aujourd’hui  extrêmement honorés d’accueillir ici au Siège de l’UNESCO. Excellence, Monsieur le Président, vous avez la parole.
6.1 S. E. M. Keïta (Président de la République du Mali) :   Votre Altesse Royale, Mesdames, Messieurs les chefs de Gouvernement, Madame la Présidente de la  Conférence générale, Monsieur le Président du Conseil exécutif, Madame la Directrice générale de l’UNESCO, Madame  Irina Bokova, chère amie, Excellences, Mesdames et Messieurs, à l’entame de mon propos, il me plaît d’adresser ici à  chacun mes vifs remerciements pour l’accueil extrêmement chaleureux qui nous a été réservé à l’abord de cette  vénérable Maison, institution dirai-je plutôt, qui est la nôtre.
6.2 Il y a deux ans, ma présence était attendue en ces mêmes lieux. Elle n’a pu avoir lieu en raison précisément de  ce que notre amie de Bulgarie vient d’évoquer : ces semeurs de trouble et de malheur qui, partout dans le monde,  sèment l’effroi et veulent empêcher le monde de vivre. Encore aujourd’hui, ceux qui ont empêché cette rencontre il y a  deux ans sont encore aux aguets. Je vous assure que nous sommes ici tendus, tendus vers notre pays, le Mali, à  l’écoute, car nous sommes toujours, hélas, hélas, sous la menace de ces terroristes. Et c’est pour cela qu’ensemble,  ayant pris la pleine mesure et la pleine conscience de la modicité des moyens de chacun des États pris individuellement,  cinq pays du Sahel se sont unis pour mutualiser leurs moyens, leurs forces, leur intelligence, en vue de combattre ce  fléau d’un autre temps : la Mauritanie, le Niger, le Mali, le Burkina Faso et le Tchad. Et je crois qu’aujourd’hui, ce  G5 Sahel, qui avait fait sourire plus d’un grand esprit fort – il y en a toujours pour railler une initiative –, beaucoup se sont  rendus à l’évidence de sa pertinence.
6.3 Ceux que nous avons en face de nous cherchent à faire régner la peur, la division, la suspicion au sein de  l’humanité. Ils cherchent à nous braquer les uns contre les autres sur un fond prétendument religieux ou communautaire.  Quelle blague ! Lorsque l’on sait le passé de Tombouctou, lorsque l’on sait l’éclat de ce qui y a régné il y a des siècles,  lorsque Sankoré illuminait le monde de sa science, que les voyageurs qui venaient d’ailleurs, d’un ailleurs assez proche,  du monde arabe, du monde musulman, s’émerveillaient de l’érudition des oulémas de Tombouctou et de la richesse de  ses bibliothèques, que l’islam y était pratiqué de manière tolérante, raisonnable, intelligente et humaine – ce qu’est  l’islam, d’ailleurs –, dès lors l’argument religieux n’a aucun sens. C’est pour cela que nous avons estimé qu’il fallait  opposer le refus le plus catégorique. Le Mali apporte pour sa part sa solidarité à tous les pays qui ont été victimes  d’attentats. On nous a vus défilant ici dans les rues de Paris, suite aux horreurs que la ville a subies. Nous sommes  solidaires de tous les peuples, de tous les pays qui, à l’instar du nôtre, ont été victimes de cette barbarie nouvelle. Le  terrorisme est devenu une gangrène planétaire qui appelle à un combat sans relâche. Comme un caméléon, il s’adapte  à tous les contextes, utilisant tous les moyens modernes, et frappe d’innocentes personnes en toute liberté. Notre  réponse ne doit ni attendre, ni être tributaire de calculs politiques.
6.4 Nous devrons être capables de réagir avec vigueur à ces actes de désolation et maintenir l’espoir partout dans  le cœur des enfants du monde. Nous devrons refuser que la haine ne l’emporte sur l’amour entre les hommes. Nous  devrons refuser que les armes ne l’emportent sur la raison et sur les cœurs. Je salue à cet égard les efforts de  l’UNESCO pour faire du Forum de Bakou un lieu d’échanges stratégiques sur les questions d’extrémisme violent. C’est  pourquoi nous y avons pris part avec beaucoup d’espoir et de bien bon cœur. Notre participation aujourd’hui à ce  rendez-vous important témoigne de l’intérêt du Mali à raffermir sa coopération avec tous les acteurs œuvrant pour le  rapprochement des cultures.
6.5 Ces actes violents, aussi violents soient-ils, ne doivent aucunement vaincre notre résistance et notre  détermination à faire dialoguer nos civilisations et nos cultures. C’est ce que le Mali souhaite démontrer, en organisant  demain, ici-même, une table ronde sur le dialogue des cultures. Par la magie du cinéma, deux cultures (occidentale et
57  africaine), représentées par des figures emblématiques comme Jean Rouch et Amadou Hampâté Bâ, nous rappellent la  nécessité de promouvoir le dialogue des civilisations pour faire prospérer un monde de paix. Le film que vous serez  invités à visionner en levée de rideau, qui a été tourné en 1984, évoque déjà à cette époque des questions qui se posent  à nous aujourd’hui avec acuité pour nous rappeler que rien ne vaut le dialogue. Il doit être notre rempart contre  l’extrémisme. Il doit être notre source d’énergie. L’ingénieur français, fasciné par les cultures africaines et converti en un  de leurs chantres les plus illustres, rencontre un symbole vivant de ces mêmes cultures, en l’occurrence Amadou  Hampâté Bâ, dans sa maison d’Abidjan. De leur dialogue, il ressort que l’homme doit cheminer vers l’homme pour son  plein accomplissement. C’est une belle leçon de vie qui vaut notre attention.
6.6 Mesdames et Messieurs, mon pays, empêtré dans une crise multidimensionnelle, retrouve son chemin depuis  l’Accord pour la paix et la réconciliation signé à Alger. Certes, la mise en œuvre dudit Accord, sous la supervision de la  médiation internationale, exige d’énormes sacrifices de toutes les parties. Pour sa part, le Gouvernement du Mali ne  ménage et ne ménagera aucun effort pour mettre pleinement en œuvre l’Accord. Dieu seul sait que nous avons consenti  des sacrifices et que les progrès sont remarquables en dépit des défis inhérents à un tel processus.
6.7 La mise en place du commandement opérationnel du G-5 Sahel à Sévaré, au Mali, consacre le démarrage des  activités de cette alliance des États du Sahel pour mutualiser leurs efforts en vue de vaincre le terrorisme. À cet égard, je  crois qu’il serait juste de reconnaître ici l’engagement personnel du Chef de l’État français, Emmanuel Macron, qui, cinq  jours après sa prise de fonctions, a tenu à faire le voyage au Sahel et a souhaité également être des nôtres pour un  sommet extraordinaire du G-5 Sahel consacré précisément à la lutte contre le terrorisme dans l’espace sahélo-saharien.  Il a compris qu’il s’agissait là non pas d’un combat pour le seul Sahel, mais que le Sahel était un lieu de passage des  hommes en vue de conquêtes futures vers d’autres horizons – et quels horizons ! – et donc, que le Sahel était un  rempart, une digue qu’il fallait préserver à tout prix. Il l’a compris, et son appui nous a été précieux. Je tenais ici à lui  rendre cet hommage-là.
6.8 Il me plaît de saisir l’opportunité de cette tribune pour vous remercier encore une fois pour la solidarité  manifestée à l’endroit du Mali. On se souvient, au Mali et ailleurs – Bâmiyân, Palmyre –, des effroyables images de  destruction des mausolées et de monuments de sites historiques par des barbares de notre temps, et de l’autodafé des  manuscrits. Madame, nous nous souvenons de votre vive émotion lors de votre visite à Tombouctou, celle de la femme  de culture et de la femme tout court, devant l’horreur de ce que vous y avez vu. Cela avait ému non seulement le Mali,  mais le monde entier, tout le monde qui partage nos valeurs de civilisation, Madame Bokova. Soyez-en remerciée.  (Applaudissements). Sous votre impulsion, Madame, l’UNESCO a lancé une vaste campagne de reconstruction du  patrimoine culturel mondial au Mali. Et votre appel, le plan d’action adopté et les différentes initiatives pour le mettre en  œuvre ont permis de reconstruire les mausolées de nos saints, que vous avez personnellement inaugurés à  Tombouctou en juillet 2015. Je me réjouis du succès de la fin de la première phase du Programme de reconstruction et  invite nos partenaires à nous accompagner pour la deuxième phase. Lorsque l’on sauve un patrimoine historique culturel,  on sauve un pan important de la mémoire collective de l’humanité, qui nous permet d’être en relation avec ceux qui  furent avant nous et de passer le relais à ceux qui viendront après nous. Il s’agit donc là d’une œuvre humaine dont  l’importance n’est pas à démontrer  : c’est une évidence.
6.9 Que la maison de René Caillié, chrétien, côtoie les proches avenues de Sankoré et soit un objet d’attraction  dans une ville majoritairement musulmane, suffit à mesurer l’esprit de tolérance des populations et la nature de l’islam  qu’elles pratiquent. Un islam malékite, tranquille, tolérant, intelligent, à hauteur humaine. En détruisant les mausolées de  cette ville symbole de l’islam, les terroristes ont voulu provoquer l’indignation. Ils ont réussi. Ils ont voulu tout effacer,  mais oublient-ils que l’histoire ne s’efface pas d’un coup de canon ? Tombouctou, ville patrimoine de l’humanité, ne  s’effondrera jamais, pas sous la première menace en tout cas. Ceux qui ont décrit Tombouctou, que ce soit Caillié,  Gordon Laing, Heinrich Barth ou Oskar Lenz, n’ont nulle part vu des signes d’intolérance dans cette ville. Ils ont admiré  la civilité des populations, civilité soutenue par la culture immense d’hommes de lettres et de sciences à Sankoré, une  prestigieuse université médiévale. Dès lors, je me réjouis de l’issue du procès historique d’Al Faqi, qui présente les  germes de l’espoir que ceux qui détruisent devront répondre un jour de leurs actes devant la justice universelle. Les  manuscrits que nos sages maîtres ont légués à la postérité contiennent des connaissances qui nous auraient servi à  consolider notre entente et notre vivre-ensemble. J’appelle encore une fois au soutien de l’UNESCO pour faire parler les  manuscrits dès lors que les conditions seront créées pour leur exploitation paisible et rationnelle.
6.10 La Conférence d’Abou Dhabi en décembre 2016, suivie de la Conférence du Louvre, a ouvert des perspectives  nouvelles pour mobiliser des moyens en faveur de la protection de notre patrimoine commun. Je salue la France, les  Émirats arabes unis et la Suisse pour leurs efforts dans ce sens. J’appelle également au soutien de l’ensemble de la  communauté internationale et en priorité des États africains pour une véritable diffusion de l’Histoire générale de  l’Afrique et la réalisation du neuvième volume tant attendu. Cet important travail scientifique doit servir l’humanité. La  signature par les artistes maliens de la Déclaration d’engagement pour la Coalition des artistes pour l’Histoire générale  de l’Afrique prouve, si besoin en était, le grand intérêt du Mali pour ce projet majeur.
6.11 Notre indignation est grande devant les scènes de destruction de biens appartenant à l’humanité et témoignant  de la créativité des civilisations humaines. Tout comme notre indignation est grande, notre colère l’est aussi face aux  tergiversations de la communauté internationale. Le monde ne peut demeurer à regarder que la folie de quelques nervis  efface des siècles de traces de notre histoire commune et de nos civilisations passées.
6.12 Madame Bokova, au moment où vous terminez votre mandat à la tête de cette vénérable institution, permettez- moi de vous dire l’hommage du Mali et de Tombouctou. Vous n’imaginez pas, Madame, l’immense bonheur de tout un  peuple, qui vous reste reconnaissant pour tout ce que vous avez pu lui apporter durant ces années. Par ma voix, le Mali
58  vous remercie et vous souhaite bonne chance (applaudissements). Merci, merci, chère salle, c’est mérité, je vous dis  merci et vous souhaite bonne chance dans votre nouvelle vie à venir, que nous souhaitons radieuse.
6.13 Mesdames, Messieurs, le monde est confronté à l’extrémisme violent et à d’autres défis qui menacent la paix,  gage de tout développement. Ces défis justifient la nécessité de renforcer le rôle de l’UNESCO et notre collaboration  avec elle. Son action en faveur de l’éducation à travers le Programme 2030 doit être soutenue pour transformer les  hommes en véritables acteurs du monde et de son développement. Unis, unis, nous saurons faire régner la joie dans le  cœur de tous et la paix dans l’esprit de tous. Ainsi, nous aurons été dignes de nos illustres devanciers qui, en fondant  notre belle Organisation, étaient convaincus que « les guerres prenant naissance dans l'esprit des hommes, c'est dans  l'esprit des hommes que doivent être élevées les défenses de la paix ». Merci.
7. La Présidente :   Merci, Monsieur le Président. Nous vous sommes extrêmement reconnaissants pour les infatigables efforts que  le Gouvernement malien, sous votre directive, a menés en faveur de la recherche et de la reconstruction de la paix.  Mesdames et Messieurs, S. E. le Président Keïta était notre dernier orateur pour la journée. Mais avant de clore la  session, Son Excellence a souhaité rendre un hommage spécial à la Directrice générale.
8. M. Toto (Chef du Protocole) :   Madame la Présidente de la Conférence générale, Excellences, Mesdames et Messieurs, vous venez  d’entendre le Président de la République du Mali. Le Président Ibrahim Boubacar Keïta a salué les actions menées par  l’UNESCO en faveur de son pays. Il a surtout insisté sur le rôle déterminant et l’implication personnelle de Mme Irina  Bokova pour la préservation et la protection du patrimoine culturel du Mali. Monsieur le Président, Madame la Présidente,  Excellences, Mesdames et Messieurs, la cérémonie d’hommage du Président Ibrahim Boubacar Keïta à la Directrice  générale à laquelle nous allons assister dans un instant sera mise en scène par Alphadi, créateur de mode et artiste de  l’UNESCO pour la paix. Alphadi sera accompagné de Mme Ramatoulaye Diallo, Ministre de la culture du Mali. Cette  courte cérémonie d’hommage sera rythmée par le groupe musical Soussaba et Baba Sacko.   (Musique)
9.1 La Présidente :   Merci, Monsieur le Président de la République du Mali, pour cet hommage si spécial, et à travers lequel le talent  et la créativité de la culture malienne se sont exprimés de façon magnifique. Merci beaucoup, Votre Excellence.
9.2 Excellences, Mesdames et Messieurs, nous arrivons à la fin de cette séance. Je tiens à souligner que la  plénière se réunira de nouveau demain à 11 h 30 pour examiner le rapport du Bureau, qui s’est réuni ce matin, ainsi que  le premier rapport du Président du Comité de vérification des pouvoirs. Je vous informe qu’à midi, S. E. M. Lech Walesa,  lauréat du prix Nobel de la paix et ancien Président de la Pologne, nous fera l’honneur d’intervenir dans le cadre du  Forum des dirigeants. Je vous souhaite à tous une très agréable soirée. La séance est close.  The meeting rose at 4.35 p.m.  La séance est levée à 16 h 35  Se levanta la sesión a las 16.35  Заседание закрывается в 16.35  الظهربعد  ٣٥,٤رفعت اجللسة يف الساعة    会议于 16 时 35 分结束