1.1 The Temporary President (Mr Simataa, President of the 38th session of the General Conference):   Mr Chairperson of the Executive Board, Madam Director-General of UNESCO, Your Excellencies, Ministers,  distinguished Ambassadors, friends and colleagues, representatives of intergovernmental and non-governmental  organizations, members of the media, ladies and gentlemen, I am pleased to welcome you to UNESCO for the 39th  session of its General Conference. As President of the 38th session, and in accordance with Rule 28 of the Rules of  Procedure of the General Conference, I have the honour of presiding over this inaugural meeting. I therefore declare  open the 39th session of the General Conference of the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization.
1.2 Given the important sessions ahead of us, music will no doubt soothe our state of mind. It is my pleasure to  introduce a musical moment by our own UNESCO choir, which will sing the first movement of Antonio Vivaldi’s Gloria in  excelsis Deo directed by Connie Glessner and accompanied by its artistic director Cyrille Kirilov. Their second piece,  Velvet Shoes is by the United States composer Randall Thompson, with the words in verses 1 and 3 taken from the  poem by Elinor Wylie and the words in verse 2 paraphrased from the famous words in the Preamble to our UNESCO  Constitution, which reminds us why we are convening at this 39th session of the General Conference. Thank you.  (Musical interlude)  Address by the President of the 38th session of the General Conference  Allocution de la Présidente de la 38e session de la Conférence générale  Discurso pronunciado por la Presidenta de la 38ª reunión de la Conferencia General  Выступление Председателя 38-й сессии Генеральной конференции  الدورة الثامنة والثالثين للمؤتمر العام ةكلمة رئيس   大会第三十八届会议主席致辞
2.1 The Temporary President:   Mr Chairperson of the Executive Board, Madam Director-General, Your Excellencies, ladies and gentlemen,  dear colleagues, I am this morning immersed in a mixed brew of emotions as I take this opportunity to address the  General Conference for the very last time as President. I must confess that time flies! It has been a great honour and  privilege for me, and my country, Namibia, in particular, to have been accorded the opportunity of being at the helm of  the supreme governing body of our Organization for the past two years. I once again thank UNESCO Member States,  and the Africa Group in particular, for the confidence shown in entrusting Namibia with this very onerous responsibility. In  the same vein, I would like to thank my Government for the privilege accorded to me to represent the “land of the brave”  in this capacity.
2.2 Two years ago, when I ascended to this position, I thought I knew all about UNESCO. Well, I must confess that I  was wrong because two years later I have emerged from this assignment greatly enriched, much enlightened and indeed  much wiser on the mechanics of the Organization than before. This shows the primacy of lifelong learning.
2.3 At the outset of my tenure I had a burning desire, and still do, in concert with my colleague, the Chairperson of  the Executive Board, acting in tandem with the Director-General, to engineer the financial revitalization of our  Organization. I must, however, acknowledge that our success largely depended on Member States’ goodwill and their  desire to rekindle and preserve an appetite to honour their obligations to the Organization without fail. It is regrettable  that as our tenures are drawing to a close – this afternoon for me and next month for the Director-General and the  Chairperson of the Executive Board – that we still have to reiterate our calls to the relevant Member States to honour  their dues while the collective burden now inevitably has to be passed on to the next wave of leaders of our Organization.
2.4 UNESCO’s capacity to maintain its time-honoured leadership position in driving the 2030 Agenda for  Sustainable Development in areas within its mandate is severely imperilled by its perpetually weakened financial position.  As I stated in my address during the 200th session of the Executive Board, as an Organization whose mandate is central  to the advancement of humanity, UNESCO should mend its punctured finances to avoid becoming a historical entity  immersed in a sea of opportunities yet running the risk of contaminating its mandate.
2.5 I stated then, and state again now, that we cannot and must not rely on the benevolence of extrabudgetary  contributions to execute our basket of programmes. Our Organization has no doubt exhausted its much-needed financial
5  room to manoeuvre for its programmes. I appeal to Member States to peel off this impermeable layer of indifference we  seem to have woven around us, for our actions are perilously close to compromising our relevance. We must get out of  our current comatose state of denial and forthwith restore the financial viability and dependability of this great  Organization.
2.6 Your Excellencies, during the past two years I have criss-crossed vast oceans, deserts and plains, interacting  with a number of Member States from Africa to Asia, Latin America to the Caribbean, and the Arab region to Europe, and  I have had the rare opportunity to visit and interact with our Organization’s frontline staff, the staff in the field offices, the  everyday protagonists of the decisions taken here at Headquarters. I was struck by their enthusiasm and absolute  dedication to their work, in spite of the very challenging environments in which they operate. Field offices are the theatres  of our Organization’s programme execution. Therefore, UNESCO’s continued credibility and relevance to Member States  hinges on their unconstrained capacity to deliver. Presence and presence alone is not sufficient. Functionality and  proven ability to lead, proven ability to support Member States and, above all, proven ability to deliver the programme of  activities is paramount.
2.7 Equally, I was deeply touched, almost reduced to tears, to witness first-hand the unshaken faith that Member  States continue to have in UNESCO as a dependable partner and also a partner of choice in driving their respective  nations’ agendas in the areas of education, culture, science, and communication and information. The unbridled  confidence that Member States have in UNESCO is premised on the visible global leadership in areas within its mandate  that the Organization has provided and continues to provide. It is based on the valuable expertise the Organization has  provided and continues to provide. It is also based on the tangible outcomes that its programmes and interventions have  yielded and continue to yield. We should therefore work tirelessly to mend any fissures that may emerge in our  operations so as to consolidate the faith the global community has in the quality of our leadership and the sanctity of our  work.
2.8  Your Excellencies, given escalating incidents of intolerance, rising global tensions and a creeping chorus for  violence as opposed to peaceful settlement of disputes, UNESCO’s enduring mandate of building peace in the minds of  women and men has never been more relevant. The recent observation made by the United Nations Secretary-General,  Mr António Guterres, when addressing the General Assembly last September, that “we must not sleepwalk our way into  war” illustrates the urgency of heightened renewal of the values of peace, tolerance and mutual co-existence. It should,  however, be stated that we cannot be effective advocates of peace, nor can we expect to reap the maximum dividends of  peace, when we continue to be an Organization beset with simmering disharmony. We must restore trust and we must  instil harmony among Member States.
2.9 Today, more than ever, we need a united Organization, one whose entire ecosystem is geared towards the  delivery of credible and quality outcomes. Our weighty responsibility to, amongst other things, address escalating  incidents of violent extremism, reduce the stubborn illiteracy rate, particularly amongst girls and women, drive efforts to  address climate change, which threatens the continued existence of many of our Member States, curtail incidents of  destruction and piracy of cultural heritage and address the elusive safety of journalists compels UNESCO to act  resolutely and in so doing affirm the universality of our actions.
2.10  In an era when there seems to be an onslaught on multilateralism, UNESCO needs to show its pedigree of  resilience and weather the current storm, as was the case before when it faced similar challenges. This we can only  achieve if those of us who steadfastly subscribe to the supremacy of our mandate, who believe in the centrality of  interdependence and mutual co-existence, can close ranks and forge ahead in unison. Giving up on the sacred  responsibility of advancing the well-being of humanity is not an option at all.
2.11 I must acknowledge the General Conference’s foresight in having established a working group to examine the  governance, procedures and working methods of our Organization’s governing bodies. Although this was a mammoth  undertaking, its inclusiveness yielded immense value in building greater cohesion among Member States. Coming at a  time when our Organization has assumed greater responsibilities in the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development, the  recommendations advanced, if accepted, will go a long way to creating a robust governance regime. As an organic  institution, UNESCO cannot barricade itself behind traditional governance practices when the dynamism of the twenty- first century requires the Organization to change. Given the hesitation that usually accompanies any change, I am  inspired, and I trust that you will be too, by the words of Allan Watts, who once said, “The only way to make sense out of  change is to plunge into it, move with it, and join the dance.”
2.12 I therefore hope and trust that the desire expressed by a substantive number of Member States to initiate  reforms in key areas of the Organization, though not having mustered the desired consensus, will not be drowned during  the choreography of your discussions. I encourage Member States to approach the debate with open minds and a  willingness to engage with the core issues rather than religiously adhering to initial positions. The resolution of these  issues is crucial to attaining the imperatives of inclusiveness and equity and asserting the centrality of the General  Conference.
2.13 Your Excellencies, I have had the pleasure of chairing the working group on the governance, procedures and  working methods of the governing bodies of UNESCO, which was established by the General Conference with a  mandate of two years, from 2016 to 2017. In addition to the recommendations of the working group, I have also wished  to oxygenate the debates of Member States with contributions based on my own consultations at Headquarters and in  the field, and also based on my listening to debates held informally within our Organization.
2.14 I have therefore taken the decision to break away from the conventions of our Organization and provide the  General Conference with a full reflection, in document 39 C/INF.23, reflecting the five key questions that, in my opinion,
6  have emerged as central to the review of our Organization’s governance architecture. These five questions are the  following: (1) Is the current interpretation of UNESCO’s mandate still relevant or are we following this mandate in the five  major programmes simply as a ritual? (2) Should UNESCO operate with the same functions across all its major  programmes, particularly regarding standard-setting and capacity building? (3) Is UNESCO a political as well as a  technical agency? Here I have advanced several proposals to safeguard the debates on the programme of our  Organization, as the programme has been a casualty of the politicization of our debates on various occasions in the past.
(4) How should we provide UNESCO with the means to achieve its ambitions? It is indeed imperative to enhance the  Organization’s delivery capacity. (5) Last but not least, looking at UNESCO from the field, should we not form new  partnership compacts with traditional as well as new partners?
2.15 In my reflection, Your Excellencies, I implore Member States to reaffirm their political will and provide a safe  haven for the Organization’s programme. We need to insulate politicized debates that relate more to the international  relations remit than to UNESCO’s technical fields of expertise, as well as those debates that lead some Member States  to condition their contributions to the Organization’s regular budget for political reasons. I believe that the issue of re- engineering UNESCO’s capacities to favour results over the culture of control will also be critical. UNESCO’s impact  derives from its visibility and results on the ground. It is thus critical to promote the role of UNESCO’s field offices – as  well as our contributions as Member States – for implementation of UNESCO’s programme, notably by reinforcing the  technical ability and inputs of the National Commissions for UNESCO.
2.16 In concluding, let me express my sincere and unreserved thanks to a host of individuals with whom I have had  the pleasure of working over the past two years. First, to Ambassador Michael Worbs, the Chairperson of the Executive  Board, for his steadfast leadership of the Board during very difficult times. Your Excellency, your valuable inputs during  our exchanges as leaders of the two organs of this Organization assisted in shaping our approach on quite a number of  key issues. Since your term will also be ending soon, I wish you the best in your future endeavours.
2.17 To Madam Director-General, what else can I say that I have not said already? You, Madam Director-General,  have led our Organization with distinction for the past eight years. You have asserted and carved out UNESCO’s  leadership role in key areas of its mandate. You have cemented its global relevance, notably within the United Nations  system. Notwithstanding the many trials and tribulations we have gone through, you have consistently displayed  resilience in your leadership and kept our Organization afloat and focused on programme delivery. As you are about to  conclude your tour of duty, I wish you and your family God’s blessings. You can certainly hold your head high, for you did  what was humanly possible in your stewardship of the Organization. That which you could not accomplish, let the  incoming wave of leadership take up, for no mortal can ever fully accomplish the aspirations of an Organization with such  an eternal mandate. My last parting counsel to you, Madam Director-General – and this also applies to Ambassador  Worbs and myself – is to please spend quality time with your family, who may not have had sufficient time with you over  the years when you were having to juggle your official engagements.
2.18 To the staff who made it possible for me to carry out my mandate – in the Secretariat of the Governing Bodies  (GBS), under the able leadership of both Mr Jacques Rao, who has since retired, and now Ms Karima Bekri-Lisner, and  their colleagues Mr Luis Salamanques and Ms Anna Bonetti – a big thank you for the dedication and professionalism  with which you rendered the necessary services. You were my reliable sounding boards on procedural and many other  issues which were critical to ensuring constructive discussions not only during the General Conference but also during  the working group’s deliberations. You are a small unit, but you have risen to the challenge by building a committed,  talented and multitasking team whose obsession with quality outcomes I, for one, proudly share.
2.19 To the colleagues who were members of the President’s inner circle, Ms Catherine Thiounn, now retired,  Ms Eunice Ong, Mr Ahmed Abdelli, and last but not least Ms Dorine Dubois, I do not have the words to express my  gratitude to you all for your valuable insights and for the assistance offered. You were my confidants. You were indeed  my surrogate family during my stay in Paris. Whatever good deeds, if any, UNESCO will derive from my term as  President, you colleagues played a big part. Ms Dubois, your knowledge of UNESCO from its programme to its  functioning, your attention to detail, and your rigour kept me focused and added elegance to our work. Ms Ong, your  sharp organizational and coordinating skills kept our programmes lean yet rich in content. Mr Abdelli, your intricate  knowledge of your job, kept this soldier safe and ensured that we kept our appointments safely and always on time.
2.20 Finally, let me conclude by sharing a picture with you. Just look at this picture here: you can see a huge,  intimidating but very kind animal – unless you upset it. You can also see a pool of water, and in front of that large animal  enjoying a well-deserved drink from that pool of water is another animal: a crocodile. This picture by Clemens Friedrich  was taken in Namibia in southern Africa at a private game lodge called Erindi. When Clemens Friedrich posted this photo  on his Twitter account, one of the comments I found instructive was the following: “If human beings learnt to live like  these two ancient animals, earth would be paradise.” Very interesting and very true. But those of you who have also read  the writings of the great philosopher Aristotle will know that the picture resonates with what he said over 2,000 years ago,  that an individual is born to live in complex organization with his or her fellow creatures, in community and in harmony,  through compromise but united through a common purpose, which is to live a shared life. Very true. But what is the  message that I want you to take home by showing you this picture? What I want to leave with you, Your Excellencies, is  the following: UNESCO Member States come in different shapes and sizes, and they come with different orientations,  but they are intricately joined by the sanctity of the Organization’s enduring mandate and values. That is what connects  us– just as the water connects the large animal and the small crocodile in the picture. Therefore let us create space in  the UNESCO commonage for all those who wish to join the crusade to advance the well-being of humanity. That is what  I wanted to leave with you, Your Excellencies. Thank you very much, merci beaucoup, muchas gracias, xièxie, shukran,  spasibo.
2.21 Your Excellencies, thank you very much for listening to me and my apologies if I overindulged a little, but I hope  it was worthwhile. Ladies and gentlemen, I now have the honour to invite His Excellency, Ambassador Michael Worbs,  Chairperson of the Executive Board, to take the floor.
3.1 Mr Worbs (Germany) (Chairperson of the Executive Board):   Thank you. Mr President of the General Conference, Madam Director-General, honourable ministers,  distinguished delegates, Excellencies, ladies and gentlemen, it is a pleasure and distinct honour to welcome you all to  the 39th session of the General Conference of UNESCO on behalf of the 58 Members of the Executive Board and in my  own name as Chairperson of the Executive Board.
3.2 Throughout the past two years the Executive Board has been working diligently to prepare this General  Conference. Later I will be presenting the agenda of this 39th session of the General Conference for your consideration  and adoption. Please note, ladies and gentlemen, that this agenda is the collective work of not only the Members of the  Board but also the entire Secretariat, skilfully led by our Director-General, Ms Irina Bokova. The General Conference is  meeting at a crucial moment in the international development agenda. Just last week we celebrated United Nations Day,  commemorating the entry into force of the Charter of the United Nations 72 years ago on 24 October 1945.
3.3 In two weeks’ time, on 16 November, we will celebrate in a similar vein the coming into force of UNESCO’s  Constitution. We all know that UNESCO’s mandate to contribute to peace and security by promoting collaboration among  the nations remains just as relevant today as it was in the aftermath of the Second World War. We all know that  UNESCO’s mandate and the circumstances have changed, but our objective remains the same – to build peace in the  minds of men and women through education, science, culture, communication and information – in order, and I quote  from the Constitution of UNESCO, “to further universal respect for justice, for the rule of law and for the human rights and  fundamental freedoms which are affirmed for the peoples of the world, without distinction of race, sex, language or  religion, by the Charter of the United Nations”.
3.4 For sustainable development to succeed, more education is needed so that the children of today will have the  capacities they need to undertake innovative research with a view to finding green solutions for tomorrow’s world. Over  the past months, catastrophic climate events have demonstrated clearly that there is an urgent need to mitigate the  negative impact that humanity has had on the environment. The phenomenon of radicalization, especially amongst our  youth, leads to insecurity, which poses a threat to the fundamental rights of the citizens of all our societies. Our cultural  heritage, the testament of our history, is targeted by non-State actors in an attempt to annihilate civilizations and  communities.
3.5 The sharing of knowledge and information is the foundation stone upon which free societies build. Increasingly  we have seen challenges to the media and attacks on journalists. More needs to be done, not less, to foster high-quality  and inclusive lifelong learning for all, to promote scientific cooperation for sustainable development including a healthy  ocean ecosystem, to support inclusive social development fostering intercultural dialogue for the rapprochement of  cultures and promoting ethical principles, to protect cultural heritage, to foster creativity and diversity and to promote  freedom of expression and access to information and knowledge. The best way to tackle these challenges and to  address them globally is through multilateralism.
3.6 While the United Nations system might not be perfect, it is the only means we have to tackle such challenges  together. Through this living institution it is incumbent upon us all to continuously endeavour to improve the mechanisms  that help countries across the world build bridges and cooperate among themselves. UNESCO is the only multilateral  organization that can tackle these challenges head on in a multidisciplinary way.
3.7 Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, there is a need for an organization like UNESCO. Unfortunately, for too  long UNESCO has been severely underfunded. Its ability to effect much-needed change in Member States is under  attack. Withholding or non-payment of assessed contributions put unwarranted pressure on the Organization. Member  States’ neglecting their constitutional responsibility to ensure timely payment of such contributions severely handicaps  UNESCO. Needless to say, this is having a negative effect on the Organization. UNESCO is no longer capable of  fulfilling the mandate that was given to us over 70 years ago. In fact, the Executive Board is all too aware that the  Secretariat is unable to implement the programme that the previous General Conference adopted only two years ago.  This was evident from the fact that our Director-General had to put a contingency plan in place to address priorities for  continued implementation of programmes.
3.8 Regrettably, UNESCO cannot honour its commitments to all of its international obligations within the United  Nations system because of current financial constraints. Ultimately, UNESCO will not have an impact when it is needed  the most in its Member States. It is therefore our collective responsibility as representatives of Member States to rectify  the situation. The situation needs to be resolved and it needs to be resolved as a matter of urgency. The Director- General and her team have constantly kept the Executive Board apprised of this situation, and together we have  provided the General Conference with documents relating to the Organization’s financial burden. We were able to further  improve our understanding of the integrated budget framework and make progress with results-based budgeting,  especially within the context of the structured financing dialogue. This new approach allows for a more transparent  understanding of the Organization’s financial commitments and those areas where funding is needed most. Throughout  the biennium the Executive Board has fulfilled its constitutional responsibility to ensure efficient implementation of the  Organization’s programme by our Director-General and her staff in the Secretariat. This was not an easy feat considering  the heavy financial constraints the Organization has been facing. Nonetheless, we should be proud that UNESCO  remains the Organization within the United Nations system to which people look for guidance in its fields of competence.  The Director-General has prepared a solid programme for the coming four years, and the Executive Board has ensured
8  that the expected results proposed meet the strategic and overarching objectives approved by the General Conference in  the Organization’s Medium-Term Strategy for 2014-2021.
3.9 Mr President of the General Conference, Excellencies, ladies and gentlemen, another advance since the last  session of the General Conference is the fact that the Executive Board met on a more regular basis throughout the  biennium. In fact, we met almost monthly. Before commenting on the intersessional meetings of the Executive Board,  which made this happen, I would like to recall two key elements of UNESCO’s Constitution as they relate to the Board.  Firstly, its Members are elected by the General Conference to ensure, and I quote, “the diversity of cultures and a  balanced geographical distribution” amongst all Member States, and secondly the Board acts as the representative,  governing body between ordinary sessions of the General Conference.
3.10 Taking this constitutional basis, it is helpful to remember that the intersessional meetings were established by a  decision of the Board. In short, they were an exercise undertaken for a trial period with enhanced participation of all  Member States. Both the Joint Inspection Unit of the United Nations and the External Auditor have made  recommendations concerning UNESCO’s governance structure. Both have called for greater efficiency, not new  processes. During the self-evaluation it was noted that UNESCO’s Executive Board was the largest within the United  Nations system. Similar agencies operate with fewer board members.
3.11 In this regard our Board is the most inclusive in the United Nations system. While inclusion is important, the goal  of meetings of Members of the Executive Board has been, and should be, to improve the strategic decision-making  processes of the Board. Specifically, these meetings were conducted in line with 197 EX/Decision 5.IV.G and 197  EX/Decision 44 taken in 2015. The terms of reference were not established, but, as the Chairperson, I proposed that  they assist with preparation of the upcoming session of the Executive Board while also providing an opportunity for  discussion on topics of importance for the Board’s work. The understanding was that, in principle, debate on these items  would not be reopened during the two regular sessions we had during a calendar year, thus improving the effectiveness  and efficiency of the decision-making processes of the Board. These meetings also incorporated elements of the  preparatory groups and the Board’s information meetings with the Director-General, which were suspended for this  current biennium. A total of ten meetings were held: seven in 2016 and three in 2017. The Board’s evaluation of the trial  period is included in the report of the working group on governance pursuant to 38 C/Resolution 101, together with the  Board’s recommendations thereon. The ability to meet informally and regularly proved to be helpful. Many members  noted that they were useful for continuing sustained consultations on elaboration of the Organization’s programme and  budget for 2018-2021 (document 39 C/5). Unfortunately, because of the lack of clearly defined terms of reference,  Members encountered a rather lengthy learning curve, and momentum was built finally by the tenth intersessional  meeting held shortly before the 202nd session of the Executive Board. If this momentum is preserved, then perhaps the  positive effects of that large intersessional meeting could be seen as an example for the future. A substantial number of  items on the Executive Board’s agenda, 19 in total, were proposed by the Bureau for adoption without debate during the
202nd session as they had been adequately addressed during the intersessional meeting. The draft decisions for each of  these items were therefore dealt with directly in the commissions, thus helping to improve the effectiveness and  efficiency of the Board.
3.12 Meeting regularly and engaging more often with the Secretariat was helpful, but the experiment also  demonstrated increased strains on the Secretariat in terms of workload, with its increased participation in these meetings  and the need to prepare certain documents sooner than initially anticipated. There was also a substantial increase in the  running costs of the work of the Executive Board, relating primarily to the use of six official languages rather than two  (English/French) as used previously for preparatory-group and information meetings with the Director-General. This  would need to be examined if such a mechanism is to be considered for the coming biennium.
3.13 Distinguished delegates, in the coming weeks the General Conference will be called upon to take decisions that  will influence the future orientation of our Organization. Throughout the past two years the Board has kept its  constitutional responsibilities so that it could provide the best recommendations possible to the General Conference in  order that you in turn would be able to make your decisions more wisely. Paramount among these decisions will be the  nomination of the next Director-General of UNESCO. The Executive Board undertook this task with the greatest possible  degree of seriousness. At our 201st session we held 90-minute interviews for each of the nine candidates. Between  sessions each of these candidates was carefully considered by all of the Board representatives. At our recent 202nd  session we undertook six rounds of voting to come to the conclusion that we did. Our approach to this task was  innovative. The interviews were conducted in public sessions, transmitted over the Internet for the first time. Thereafter  the video recording of all the interviews was made available online so that every Member State could consult it between  sessions. Each round of elections took place during private meetings of the Board to ensure the utmost serenity for this  serious task. This being the age of social media and instant transmission of information, and for the sake of full  transparency, the Board allowed me to convey the results of each round of voting immediately. We used social media  and electronic communications in order to do so. I think this helped to modernize the nomination process. Based on this  experience, it might be wise for the Organization to reconsider its rules and practices with a view to ensuring the highest  levels of transparency for similar processes in future.
3.14 Finally, Excellencies, ladies and gentlemen, on a more personal note I wish to express my sincere gratitude to  my Government, the Federal Republic of Germany, and in particular to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs for having  permitted me to complete a full four-year term as Germany’s representative on the Board and, in accordance with the  Rules of Procedure of the Executive Board, thus allowing me also to fulfil my mandate as Chairperson of the Executive  Board for the full biennium. In fact, I am honoured to have almost a decade’s worth of experience in UNESCO now: firstly,  from 1997 to 2001, when I was appointed as Deputy Permanent Delegate of Germany, and again, from 2012, when I  was named as Germany’s Ambassador and Permanent Delegate to UNESCO. In 2013, after the election of Germany to
9  the Board, I also became my country’s representative on the Board. During my ten years’ worth of UNESCO experience,  I participated in the election of Mr Matsuura in 1999. I was elected the Chairperson of the Nominations Committee during  the 38th session of the General Conference, which was the first time I had the honour to collaborate with you, Mr  President. Finally, I was privileged to conduct the current nomination process that will see the installation of our  Organization’s eleventh Director-General next week. This experience left me with many wonderful memories. With these  few words, Excellencies, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the Executive Board I wish you all a fruitful and enriching
39th session of the General Conference. Thank you very much for your attention.   (Applause)
4. The Temporary President:   Thank you very much, Ambassador Worbs, for your statement. Ladies and gentlemen, it is now my distinct  pleasure and honour to invite the Director-General to offer her opening remarks. Madam Director-General, you have the  floor.
5.1 La Directrice générale :  Monsieur le Président de la Conférence générale, Monsieur le Président du Conseil exécutif, Mesdames et  Messieurs les chefs de délégation, Excellences, Mesdames et Messieurs, permettez-moi tout d’abord de remercier le  Président de la Conférence générale et le Président du Conseil exécutif pour leur dévouement à l’égard de  l’Organisation et leur appréciation du travail mené avec le Secrétariat dans le cadre des préparatifs de cette Conférence  générale. J’exprime ma reconnaissance aux deux Présidents pour l’excellente coopération qui a caractérisé les réunions  régulières des trois organes de l’Organisation que sont la Conférence générale, le Conseil exécutif et le Secrétariat,  selon l’Acte constitutif de l’UNESCO.
5.2 Nous ouvrons cette nouvelle session de la Conférence générale à un moment important pour notre  Organisation : un moment de réflexion sur les risques et sur les opportunités du monde, et sur les meilleurs moyens d’y  répondre. Un moment également de clarification des missions et des objectifs de l’UNESCO. Chaque Conférence  générale est l’occasion d’un retour aux sources et aux valeurs qui sont au cœur de cette Organisation. Ces valeurs sont  toujours aussi actuelles. Aujourd’hui, tandis que les résultats de la science et de la recherche scientifique sont parfois  mis en cause, l’UNESCO a plus que jamais un rôle à jouer. Devant la montée des extrémismes violents qui attisent la  haine au lieu d’enseigner la paix, l’UNESCO a des solutions à offrir. Face à la montée de nouvelles formes de racisme,  d’intolérance, l’UNESCO doit être au rendez-vous. À l’heure des simplifications voire des falsifications de la vérité,  l’UNESCO est le lieu où doit s’exercer l’esprit de modération, l’esprit de nuance qui éclaire la complexité du monde. À  l’heure où tant et tant d’appels résonnent pour élever des murs, l’UNESCO existe pour éclairer les routes et les ponts  entre les cultures, les patrimoines partagés. Voilà ce que nous savons faire, voilà ce que nous allons faire.  (La Directrice générale poursuit en anglais)
5.3 Ladies and gentlemen, the world has changed since 1945, but the idea at the heart of UNESCO has never been  truer. This is the idea that peace must start with human rights and the dignity of individual women and men. This is the  idea that progress has no meaning if it is not shared, if poverty endures, if girls and women are still abused, if violence  continues to tear societies apart. This is the powerful idea that education, culture, science, communication and  information are pathways to dialogue and renewal, essential to lasting peace and security. This is why the Organization  is acting on the front line today, and, for this, UNESCO requires the engagement, leadership and voice of every Member  State. No country can retreat behind walls. There is no choice but cooperation. There is no choice but multilateralism.  This is my appeal to you today.
5.4 Over the last eight years we have enacted root-and-branch reform. We certainly need to do more, and for this  we must work together. Over the last eight years we have broken new ground across the world, rebuilding the  mausoleums of Timbuktu in Mali, defending freedom of expression and the safety of journalists, championing a new  ambitious agenda for quality education, promoting the power of culture as a driver of inclusive development, standing up  to cultural cleansing and protecting humanity’s heritage as a shared source of strength for all societies, advancing  science for sustainability for a more resilient ocean and planet, and bolstering societies in transformation everywhere.  We certainly need to do more, and for this we must work together.
5.5 Ladies and gentlemen, UNESCO has never been strong just because of the extent of its budget or the size of its  teams. UNESCO is strong because of the power of its values, because of the promise we hold for the world. This is our  most powerful asset. We are the United Nations “soft power” agency, and this General Conference is an opportunity for  us all to renew our commitment to taking this mission across the world. Thank you for your attention.
6. The Temporary President:   Thank you very much, Madam Director-General, for your words. Ladies and gentlemen, after having listened to  these wonderful speeches, preceded by the music of the UNESCO choir, we now move to the more procedural part of  this meeting. As you know, at the beginning of each session the General Conference establishes such committees,  commissions and other subsidiary organs as may be required in order for the Conference to conduct its business  efficiently. This morning we will elect two such committees.
7. The Temporary President:   First, we will establish the Nominations Committee. This Committee will determine and submit to the General  Conference the list of nominations for the posts of President and Vice-Presidents, as well as proposals for the  composition of committees, commissions and other subsidiary organs of the Conference. According to Rule 34 of the  Rules of Procedure, the Nominations Committee consists of the heads of all delegations entitled to vote in the General  Conference. The head of a delegation may designate another member of his or her delegation to attend meetings and  vote in his or her place. Representatives on the Committee may be assisted by another member of their delegation.   Item 1.2: Establishment of the Credentials Committee and report by the Committee to the General Conference  Point 1.2 : Constitution du Comité de vérification des pouvoirs et rapport du Comité à la Conférence générale  Punto 1.2: Constitución del Comité de Verificación de Poderes e informe del Comité a la Conferencia General  Пункт 1.2: Учреждение Комитета по проверке полномочий и его доклад Генеральной конференции  لجنة فحص وثائق االعتماد وتقديم تقرير اللجنة إلى المؤتمر العام تشكيل: ١,٢البند     项目 1.2: 成立全权证书委员会及该委员会向大会报告
8.1 The Temporary President:   We also need to establish the Credentials Committee, which is in charge of verifying the credentials of all  delegations, representatives and observers to the Conference. In accordance with Rule 32 of the Rules of Procedure,  this Committee consists of nine members, elected by the General Conference on the proposal of the Temporary  President. After careful examination of the composition of previous committees, with due regard to fair geographical  distribution, and following consultations with a great number of delegations, I would like to suggest that the Credentials  Committee be composed of the following countries: Dominican Republic, Greece, Guatemala, Paraguay and Serbia. Are  there any objections to this proposal? I see none. It is so decided.
8.2 I wish to congratulate the elected members and remind them that in accordance with the Rules of Procedure the  Committee is responsible for electing its own chairperson. I shall now give the floor to His Excellency Mr Michael Worbs,  Chairperson of the Executive Board, who will put forward the Board’s recommendations for Chairperson of the  Nominations Committee and Chairperson of the Credentials Committee. Please, sir, you have the floor.
9. Mr Worbs (Germany) (Chairperson of the Executive Board):   Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, it is an honour and a pleasure for me to inform the General Conference  that, by its 201 EX/Decision 20.IV, the Executive Board recommends that Ms Samira Al Moosa of Oman be elected as  Chairperson of the Nominations Committee. By the same decision, Mr President, the Executive Board recommends that  Mr José Antonio Rodríguez Duvergé of the Dominican Republic be elected as Chairperson of the Credentials Committee.  Thank you.
10. The Temporary President:   Thank you very much, Ambassador Worbs, for that presentation. I would like to congratulate both Her  Excellency Ms Al Moosa from Oman for her nomination as Chairperson of the Nominations Committee and His  Excellency Mr Rodríguez Duvergé from the Dominican Republic for his nomination as Chairperson of the Credentials  Committee. I invite the Nominations Committee to meet at 12 noon in Room IV and in the same vein invite newly elected  members of the Credentials Committee to meet at 12 noon in Room VIII. Thank you very much.  Item 1.4: Adoption of the agenda (39 C/1 Prov.Rev.)  Point 1.4 : Adoption de l’ordre du jour (39 C/1 Prov.Rev.)  Punto 1.4: Aprobación del orden del día (39 C/1 Prov.Rev.)  Пункт 1.4: Утверждение повестки дня (39 C/1 Prov.Rev.)  مؤقتة معدلة) ١م/٩٣( : اعتماد جدول األعمال١,٤البند    项目 1.4：通过议程 (39 C/1 Prov.Rev.)
11. The Temporary President:   We shall now examine item 1.4, the adoption of our agenda, contained in document 39 C/1 Prov. Rev., which  was prepared by the Executive Board at its 201st and 202nd sessions. Allow me to remind you that, at this stage, ac- cording to Rule 15, only new items of an important and urgent character may be added to the agenda. Any such pro- posals would be considered by the Bureau tomorrow morning, before being put to the General Conference for approval  by a two-thirds majority vote. I now give the floor to His Excellency, Ambassador Worbs, Chairperson of the Executive  Board, who will present the provisional agenda. Your Excellency, you have the floor.
12. Mr Worbs (Germany) (Chairperson of the Executive Board):   Thank you. Mr President, Madam Director-General, distinguished delegates, ladies and gentlemen, in accord- ance with the provisions of Article V.B 6(a) of the Constitution, the provisional agenda of the present session of the Gen- eral Conference was prepared by the Executive Board at its 201st session on the basis of a document submitted to it by
11  the Director-General. Subsequent to its discussions in this regard, the Board adopted 201 EX/Decision 20.I. Pursuant to  Rule 9, paragraph 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the General Conference, the provisional agenda was communicated to  Member States and Associate Members as soon as possible after the closure of the 201st session, by a circular letter  dated 29 May 2017. At its 202nd session, the Executive Board examined the revised provisional agenda of the 39th ses- sion of the General Conference, and by 202 EX/Decision 27.I retained the eight supplementary items that were submit- ted within the time limit set by Rule 12 of the Rules of Procedure of the General Conference and added those items  stemming from the decisions taken at its 202nd session. These items were included in the supplementary list circulated  to the Member States and Associate Members in accordance with the provisions of Rule 12, paragraph 3, of the Rules of  Procedure of the General Conference, by a circular letter dated 9 October 2017. Mr President, on behalf of the Executive  Board, I have the honour to submit for adoption by the General Conference the revised provisional agenda contained in  document 39 C/1 Prov. Rev. Thank you.
13. The Temporary President:   Thank you very much, Your Excellency, for that presentation. Are there any comments on this particular item? I  see none. The agenda is adopted. The distinguished representative of Germany, you have the floor.
14. Germany:   Thank you very much, Mr President. I think my delegation had raised the nameplate before the adoption of the  agenda. I have only one question. My delegation would like to know if by adopting the agenda we decide that some items  are to be decided without debate. That is my question, thank you.
15. The Temporary President:   Thank you very much, distinguished Ambassador of Germany. Certainly not. If there is any need for debate, it  will be debated at the appropriate level, but for now we are just adopting the agenda. In case there is need for delibera- tions, those deliberations, of course, will have to ensue at the right time. I hope that answers your question, sir. I take it  that we are in agreement and that our agenda has been duly adopted.   Item 1.7: Admission to the work of the General Conference of observers from international non-governmental  organizations other than those with the status of official partners of UNESCO, and recommendation of the  Executive Board thereon (39 C/12)  Point 1.7 : Admission aux travaux de la Conférence générale d'observateurs d'organisations internationales non  gouvernementales autres que celles bénéficiant du statut de partenaires officiels de l'UNESCO et  recommandation du Conseil exécutif à ce sujet (39 C/12)  Punto 1.7: Admisión en los trabajos de la Conferencia General de observadores de organizaciones  internacionales no gubernamentales que no sean las que colaboran oficialmente con la UNESCO, y  recomendaciones del Consejo Ejecutivo al respecto (39 C/12)  Пункт 1.7: Допуск на сессию Генеральной конференции наблюдателей от других международных  неправительственных организаций, помимо тех, которые пользуются статусом официальных  партнеров ЮНЕСКО, и рекомендации Исполнительного совета по этому вопросу (39 C/12)  غير حكومية، غير المنظمات المصنفة في فئة الشركاء الرسميين لليونسكو، لحضور أعمال  دولية قبول مراقبين من منظمات :١,٧البند  )١٢م/٩٣( في هذا الشأن المجلس التنفيذي ةالمؤتمر العام، وتوصي   项目 1.7：接纳享有教科文组织正式合作伙伴地位以外的国际非政府组织观察员列席大会会议和执行局就此问题的建议
16. The Temporary President:   Ladies and gentlemen, our next task is to examine item 1.7 of our agenda concerning the admission to the work  of the General Conference of observers from non-governmental organizations other than those with the status of official  partners of UNESCO, and recommendations of the Executive Board thereon. The relevant working document is 39 C/12.  I am now pleased once again to invite the Chairperson of the Executive Board to present the Board’s recommendations  on this matter. Ambassador Worbs, you have the floor.
17.1 Mr Worbs (Germany) (Chairperson of the Executive Board):   Thank you Mr President, Madam Director-General, distinguished delegates, ladies and gentlemen. Civil society  actors help to raise awareness of UNESCO’s values and priorities within its Member States. They are also invaluable  partners who assist with the implementation of our programme locally, regionally, and internationally. With the  presentation of this item to the General Conference, we all ought to commend the efforts and determination of these non- governmental organizations that wish to participate in the work of our governing bodies with a view to sharing knowledge  and collectively exchanging ideas for the benefit of our Organization and its Member States. The UNESCO non- governmental organization community, together with our National Commissions, is the embodiment of our constitutional  ambition to develop and increase mutual understanding and gain a truer and more perfect knowledge of each other’s  lives. Considering the current constraints that we are facing, such partnerships should be nurtured and further  encouraged.
17.2 With this in mind, the Executive Board examined document 202 EX/27 Part IV relating to admission to the 39th  session of the General Conference of observers from non-governmental organizations other than those in official  partnership with UNESCO, as well as foundations maintaining official relations with UNESCO, on which the Board took a  unanimous decision. Therefore, Mr President, I recommend on behalf of the Executive Board that those organizations  listed in document 39 C/12 be invited to participate in the 39th session of the General Conference as observers in the  debates on specific agenda items relating to their fields of competence. Thank you.
18. The Temporary President:    Thank you very much for the presentation, Ambassador Worbs. I now wish to submit this recommendation for  the approval of the General Conference. As I see no objections, I therefore take it that this recommendation is adopted  unanimously. Thank you very much. It is so agreed.  Item 8: RELATIONS WITH MEMBER STATES AND INTERNATIONAL ORGANIZATIONS  Point 8 : RELATIONS AVEC LES ÉTATS MEMBRES ET LES ORGANISATIONS INTERNATIONALES  Punto 8: RELACIONES CON LOS ESTADOS MIEMBROS Y LAS ORGANIZACIONES INTERNACIONALES  Пункт 8: ОТНОШЕНИЯ С ГОСУДАРСТВАМИ-ЧЛЕНАМИ И МЕЖДУНАРОДНЫМИ ОРГАНИЗАЦИЯМИ  العالقات مع الدول األعضاء والمنظمات الدولية: ٨البند    项目 8： 与会员国和国际组织的关系   Item 8.4: Request for the admission of New Caledonia as an Associate Member of UNESCO (39 C/55)  Point 8.4 : Demande d’admission de la Nouvelle-Calédonie en qualité de Membre associé de l’UNESCO (39 C/55)  Punto 8.4: Solicitud de admisión de Nueva Caledonia como Miembro Asociado de la UNESCO (39 C/55)  Пункт 8.4: Просьба о приеме Новой Каледонии в члены – сотрудники ЮНЕСКО (39 C/55)    )٥٥م/٩٣( طلب قبول كاليدونيا الجديدة عضواً منتسباً إلى اليونسكو : ٤,٨البند  项目 8.4: 要求接纳新喀里多尼亚为教科文组织准会员 (39 C/55)
19.1 The Temporary President:  We will now examine item 8.4 concerning the request from New Caledonia for admission as an Associate Mem- ber of UNESCO. The request for admission of New Caledonia as an Associate Member of UNESCO is presented in  document 39 C/55 under item 8.4. The document includes a letter dated 1 September 2017 from the French Minister for  Europe and Foreign Affairs applying for associate membership on behalf of New Caledonia, for whose international rela- tions his country is responsible. This letter complies with Article II, paragraph 3, of the UNESCO Constitution, which  states that territories which are not responsible for the conduct of their international relations may be admitted as Associ- ate Members by the General Conference by a two-thirds majority of Members present and voting, upon application made  on behalf of such territory by the Member having responsibility for its international relations. I now present to the General  Conference the request for admission of New Caledonia as an Associate Member of UNESCO. I see no objections to  this request. I therefore declare that New Caledonia has been admitted as a new Associate Member of the Organization.  It is so decided.
19.2 This decision further enriches the cultural diversity of our Organization. I wish to extend my warmest congratula- tions to New Caledonia, our new Associate Member. It is now my pleasure to give the floor to Mr Philippe Germain, Pres- ident of the Government of New Caledonia, who will briefly address the General Conference. Mr Germain, sir, you have  the floor.
20.1 M. Germain (Président du Gouvernement de la Nouvelle-Calédonie) :  Monsieur le Président de la Conférence générale, Monsieur le Président du Conseil exécutif, Madame la  Directrice générale, Excellences, Mesdames et Messieurs, cet instant est historique pour la Nouvelle-Calédonie. Vous  venez, en nous accordant le statut de Membre associé, de permettre à notre pays d'intégrer, pour la première fois, une  organisation intergouvernementale mondiale de l'Organisation des Nations Unies. Cette adhésion marque une nouvelle  étape dans la construction de notre politique régionale et internationale, qui constitue l'un des piliers centraux du  processus d'émancipation originale de l'Accord de Nouméa de 1998. Nous entendons assumer avec sérieux et  engagement cette nouvelle responsabilité. Nous œuvrerons au sein du Groupe IV Asie-Pacifique aux côtés de nos  partenaires du Forum des Îles du Pacifique. Je souhaite que la Nouvelle-Calédonie puisse prendre toute sa part dans les  travaux de mise en œuvre de la Stratégie à moyen terme pour 2014-2021 de l'UNESCO, en collaboration avec la France,  qui a présenté et soutenu notre candidature au statut de Membre associé.
20.2 La notoriété de l'UNESCO en Nouvelle-Calédonie résulte – au-delà de son action au profit de la paix – de  l'inscription au patrimoine mondial en 2008 d'une partie de notre lagon, le plus grand du monde. Cette mission  emblématique de l'UNESCO en faveur de la préservation des trésors de l'humanité trouve, en effet, un écho tout  particulier en Nouvelle- Calédonie. Par son implantation au cœur de la mer de Corail et du continent immergé Zealandia,  la Nouvelle-Calédonie est dépositaire d'un véritable trésor universel de biodiversité avec des écosystèmes encore  totalement préservés. À titre d'exemple, un tiers des récifs pristines de la planète se trouvent chez nous, ce qui nous  oblige à l’égard de la communauté internationale et des générations futures. Nous avons, en 2015, classé la totalité de  notre zone économique exclusive d'1,3 millions de m2 en « Parc naturel de la mer de Corail » ce qui en fait la plus  grande aire marine protégée d'Europe. Nous avons l'ambition, Monsieur le Président, de faire de la préservation de ce  patrimoine une source de développement innovante et durable. J'ai la conviction que l'UNESCO peut devenir un  partenaire international de ce projet.
20.3 Mesdames et Messieurs, avant de clore mon propos, je me félicite du choix de Madame Audrey Azoulay aux  fonctions de Directrice générale, et invite la Conférence générale à confirmer ce vote dès le 10 novembre prochain. Enfin,  je tiens à vous remercier de nous avoir accueillis parmi vous. Nous honorerons cet immense privilège et contribuerons  avec fierté et engagement à l'action de votre Organisation. Je vous remercie.  (Applaudissements)
21. The Temporary President:   Thank you very much, Your Excellency, and once again welcome to the UNESCO family. I now give the floor to  His Excellency, Ambassador Michael Worbs, Chairperson of the Executive Board, to make a few remarks. Your  Excellency, you have the floor.
22. M. Worbs (Président du Conseil exécutif) :  Merci beaucoup. Monsieur le Président, au nom de tous les membres du Conseil exécutif et en mon nom propre,  c’est avec plaisir et honneur que j’accueille la Nouvelle-Calédonie en tant que Membre associé de l’UNESCO, et j’en  félicite M. Philippe Germain, Président du Gouvernement de la Nouvelle-Calédonie. Avec cette admission, notre  Organisation devient encore plus universelle. Au jour d’aujourd’hui, nous comptons 11 Membres associés au sein de  l’UNESCO. Les membres se joignent à l’UNESCO pour recevoir de l’assistance et des conseils, mais surtout pour  partager leur expertise et leurs connaissances avec d’autres. C’est cette notion de partage qui nous unit dans notre  diversité. La Nouvelle-Calédonie accueille déjà un site inscrit sur la Liste du patrimoine mondial pour l’ensemble de la  diversité des récifs et écosystèmes associés de ce bel archipel français du Pacific Sud peuplé d’une biodiversité marine  exceptionnelle. Ce site est l’un des trois systèmes récifaux les plus vastes du monde. Votre admission à l’UNESCO en  qualité de Membre associé vous aidera à résoudre au mieux les défis du changement climatique auxquels vous devez  faire face en tant qu’île. Encore une fois, permettez-moi de féliciter la Nouvelle-Calédonie pour cette admission en tant  que Membre associé de l’Organisation. Nous attendons toutes les contributions capitales que peuvent apporter vos  experts et représentants à l’avenir. Je vous remercie pour votre attention.
23. The Temporary President:   Thank you very much, Ambassador Worbs. I now give the floor to the Director-General. Madam Director- General, you have the floor.
24. La Directrice générale :  Merci Monsieur le Président de la Conférence générale. Excellences, c’est un plaisir d’accueillir la Nouvelle- Calédonie à l’UNESCO comme nouveau Membre associé. Chaque nouvelle adhésion vient renforcer le message de  l’UNESCO et l’universalité de notre Organisation. Chaque nouvelle adhésion renouvelle notre engagement collectif pour  la diversité culturelle, pour « le respect universel de la justice, les droits et les libertés ». Cette adhésion est aussi  l’occasion de partager l’expertise de la Nouvelle-Calédonie pour la mise en valeur des patrimoines culturels, naturels,  vivants, la gestion durable des ressources en eau et de l’océan. Je prends notamment l’exemple du patrimoine naturel  des lagons de Nouvelle-Calédonie, inscrits sur la Liste du patrimoine mondial, qui constituent un laboratoire exceptionnel  pour la préservation de la biodiversité et la compréhension des effets du dérèglement climatique. Je souhaite à mon tour  réaffirmer l’engagement total de l’UNESCO en faveur de la mise en œuvre de l’Accord de Paris, auquel nous sommes  heureux d’avoir contribué. Nous sommes déterminés à mettre tous les moyens et toute l’expertise scientifique, éducative,  culturelle de l’UNESCO au service de cette tâche, et je me réjouis des perspectives qu’offre à cet égard l’adhésion de la  Nouvelle Calédonie. Je tiens également à saluer l’implication si forte de la France auprès de l’UNESCO, dont cette nou- velle adhésion offre un puissant témoignage.
25. The Temporary President:   Thank you very much, Madam Director-General, for your comments. Let me now invite the Ambassador of  France to UNESCO, Ambassador Stefanini, to take the floor. Your Excellency, you have the floor.
26. M. Stefanini (France) :  Merci Monsieur le Président de la Conférence générale, Monsieur le Président du Conseil exécutif et Madame la  Directrice générale pour vos propos. La délégation permanente française, en deux mots, voudrait seulement ici  remercier notre Conférence générale et toutes les délégations des 195 membres de l’UNESCO pour avoir admis par  acclamation un nouveau Membre associé parmi nous, la Nouvelle-Calédonie. L’UNESCO s’étend. L’UNESCO comprend  de nouveaux membres. Elle se félicite de cette admission pour la Nouvelle-Calédonie, pour la France, et pour elle-même.  Elle apportera tout son soutien à ce nouveau partenaire de nos travaux. Je vous remercie Monsieur le Président.   Item 4: GENERAL POLICY AND PROGRAMME QUESTIONS  Point 4 : QUESTIONS DE POLITIQUE GÉNÉRALE ET DE PROGRAMME   Punto 4: ASUNTOS DE POLÍTICA GENERAL Y DE PROGRAMA   Пункт 4: ВОПРОСЫ ОБЩЕЙ ПОЛИТИКИ И ПРОГРАММЫ   :٤البند  مسائل تتعلق بالسياسة العامة والبرنامج   项目 4：总政策和计划问题  Item 4.5: Conclusions of the Youth Forum (39 C/19)  Point 4.5 : Conclusions du Forum des jeunes (39 C/19)  Punto 4.5: Conclusiones del Foro de la Juventud (39 C/19)  Пункт 4.5: Выводы Молодежного форума (39 C/19)  )١٩م/٩٣( نتائج منتدى الشباب :٤,٥البند     项目 4.5：青年论坛的结论 (39 C/19)
27. The Temporary President:   Excellencies, ladies and gentlemen, I propose that we listen to the report of the Youth Forum which was held  from 25 to 26 October 2017 at UNESCO Headquarters. Last Thursday I had the opportunity to take part in the Youth  Forum, where I was not surprised to discover that in these young people we have a vibrant constituency, an untapped
14  dividend, with an unparalleled resolve to contribute actively to seeking solutions to the challenges that our respective  nations are facing. Here it is my pleasure to give the floor to two very dynamic and vibrant young people, Ms Nadia  Owusu and Mr Mark Lozano, participants at the Youth Forum who were selected by their peers to present the  conclusions of this year’s Youth Forum. Ms Owusu and Mr Lozano, please, you have the floor.
28. Ms Owusu (Ghana, Youth Forum representative):   Hello everyone. My name is Nadia Owusu, and I am from Ghana. My organization, STA Africa, provides  opportunities for young women in arts-related fields in Africa.
29. Mr Lozano (Philippines, Youth Forum representative):    Hello, my name is Mark Lozano. With my organization, One Million Lights, we are bringing clean, safe and  affordable lighting to Filipino families and schools in off-grid and impoverished communities around my country. We are  just two of 60 young women and men from all regions of the world who are engaged in high-impact initiatives relating to  UNESCO’s fields of competence and functions and were lucky enough to be here last week.
30. Ms Owusu (Ghana, Youth Forum representative):   We met at the UNESCO Youth Forum on 25 and 26 October 2017 to develop recommendations on how to  improve youth engagement with UNESCO in order to address some of the world’s biggest challenges including the  development of regional youth spaces.
31.1 Mr Lozano (Philippines, Youth Forum representative):    We are here today to present the recommendations of the Youth Forum. We will be talking about youth  engagement with UNESCO and also how UNESCO can better support initiatives by youth. The main point is that the  focus needs to be on engaging youth as partners and not just as beneficiaries. As such, the following six overarching  recommendations were put forward during the Forum. Firstly, information relevant to youth engagement with UNESCO  should be made accessible in both online and offline formats so that we can have maximum reach and promote  inclusiveness in all UNESCO initiatives with youth. Secondly, we recommend building a platform for dialogue and  partnership among youth, UNESCO, policy-makers and relevant stakeholders. Thirdly, UNESCO youth organizations  membership should be created, for the purposes of consultation, resource mapping, validation and support. Fourthly, the  UNESCO Youth Forum should be hosted well in advance of the General Conference in order to allow youth to develop a  coalition of support for the recommendations they make during the Forum. Fifthly, we recommend organizing more  forums focused on improving youth involvement with UNESCO. If we want to see real change, this type of consultation  should be a continuous process for it to be more effective. And lastly, the sixth recommendation is to ensure follow-up  and accountability after every General Conference session and Youth Forum to make sure that their recommendations  and conclusions are acted on.
31.2 In addition to these overarching recommendations, the Youth Forum also came up with thematic  recommendations for initiatives with youth concerning UNESCO’s fields of competence and functions. This will be  discussed in greater depth during panel discussions in this session of the General Conference. The recommendations  focus on working together to further empower youth in the following six areas: (1) building education systems that cater  to vulnerable populations; (2) building youth capacity to contribute to solving sustainable development issues through  data-driven initiatives; (3) shaping responsible legislation on complex issues; (4) peacebuilding; (5) safeguarding and  transmitting cultural heritage; and (6) raising awareness of complex issues using information and communication  technologies.
32.1 Ms Owusu (Ghana, Youth Forum representative):   I will now present the recommendations on how UNESCO can better support youth initiatives to improve their  ability to achieve impact. There are two main points here. Firstly, we believe UNESCO should make capacity building  more readily available to youth leaders, particularly in areas where they lack skills, and help them address the challenges  they are facing. Secondly, UNESCO should ensure that there are spaces for youth to interact and connect with one  another, with thought leaders, the media and other stakeholders as a way for them to learn from one another and  collaborate more effectively. These are the primary propositions we are making to UNESCO. We believe in scaling up  youth initiatives. UNESCO should promote and endorse youth-led programmes so that we will be able to enhance  credibility and the ability to source more funds in order to scale up. We also suggest that UNESCO provide direct access  to information, UNESCO regional offices, partnerships with technical organizations, capacity building, mentorship and  also equipment.
32.2 To build more sustainable business models, we believe that UNESCO should enhance capacity building through  workshops, toolkits and mentorship programmes for youth. Regarding entrepreneurship, we believe UNESCO should  advocate for social entrepreneurship as a model for social and sustainable impact. We also believe that UNESCO should  provide resource mapping to help effectively scale up initiatives. To translate youth initiatives into policy, our idea is for  UNESCO to endorse the work of young people and youth organizations and connect us with resources and partners at  the local level. We also advocate consulting with young people anonymously on complex issues in order to protect our  safety. UNESCO can also help to bring together thought leaders in related fields to support one another’s causes  through local forums and events. Finally, we believe UNESCO should encourage policy-makers to engage with us in our  initiatives and policy-making.
33. Mr Lozano (Philippines, Youth Forum representative):    All these recommendations centre on one point. If there is a message that youth can take from the Forum it is  that in UNESCO’s work youth should not be seen as just beneficiaries any more. Youth should be seen as partners,  partners who can help UNESO really amplify change and make a difference in the world.
34. Ms Owusu (Ghana, Youth Forum representative):   We are confident that together we can tackle the world’s biggest challenges and problems, and we hope you will  agree with us and make this happen. Thank you very much.
35.1 The Temporary President:   Thank you very much, Ms Owusu and Mr Lozano. Your Excellencies, I think the message from our young  people was loud and clear. They would like to be involved as active partners. Thank you very much once again for your  presentation. Can I suggest that the General Conference take note of the report contained in 39 C/19 because the  relevant issues that have emerged from the presentation will be dealt with in the relevant commissions. I see no  objections. It is so decided.
35.2 Ladies and gentlemen, it seems we were very efficient and have concluded the first part of our proceedings this  morning one hour early. So, congratulations to all of us. Before we adjourn this meeting, I would like to request you to be  punctual for this afternoon’s session, which will resume at 3 p.m. sharp. Thank you in advance for your cooperation and  bon appétit.  The meeting rose at 12.10 p.m.  La séance est levée à 12 h 10  Se levanta la sesión a las 12.10  Заседание закрывается в 12.10  الظهربعد  ١٠,٢١رفعت اجللسة يف الساعة    会议于12时10分结束