1. La Présidente :   Sabah al-kheir. Excellences, Mesdames et Messieurs, aujourd’hui comme vous le savez nous allons conclure le  débat de politique générale et ensuite nous aurons le grand plaisir d’écouter la réponse de Mme Bokova, la Directrice  générale de l’UNESCO. Et sans tarder, je voudrais donner la parole à notre premier orateur de ce matin, qui est  S. E. Mme Dinara Kemelova, Premier Vice-Ministre des affaires étrangères du Kirghizistan. Madame, you have the floor.
(2.1) Ms Kemelova (Kyrgyzstan) (translation from the Russian):   Distinguished President of the General Conference, distinguished Chairperson of the Executive Board, Your  Excellencies, ladies and gentlemen, permit me to congratulate Ms Zohour Alaoui on her election as President of the General  Conference and wish her success in this lofty and responsible position. I am gratified to note that this year is an anniversary  for us, marking 25 years of UNESCO membership for Kyrgyzstan. For many years, our country was represented at UNESCO  by the author and humanist Chinghiz Aitmatov. The wisdom of that Kyrgyz author is increasingly confirmed with the passage  of time; his books on humans’ harmony with nature, on the phenomenon of ethnic and cultural memory and the need to  preserve history and traditions, coincide perfectly with the fundamental principles of UNESCO. Next year, in 2018, Kyrgyzstan  will mark the 90th anniversary of the birth of that great writer, who is no longer with us. In this regard, I wish to draw attention  to the proposal that memorial activities for Chinghiz Aitmatov should be held in all the countries in whose languages his books  have been published.
(2.2) After 25 years of membership of UNESCO, on the initiative of Kyrgyzstan, many historic objects and elements of the  cultural heritage of the country’s people, such as the epic trilogy “Manas, Semetey, Seytek”, have been inscribed on the  Representative List of the Intangible Cultural Heritage of Humanity. In view of globalization and the achievements of science  and technology, we face the threat of losing unique cultures, traditions and customs. Under such conditions it is very important  to undertake actions for the preservation and broad dissemination of our ancestors’ heritage. Kyrgyzstan, for its part, is taking  steps for the preservation and revival of traditional industries and its national crafts skills, so that the younger generation can  acquire experience from the older generation of masters of the applied arts, who are the bearers of that traditional knowledge.
(2.3) We are certain that the Member States of UNESCO will support our next initiatives and projects. On the initiative of the  President of Kyrgyzstan, to revive the heritage of nomadic peoples, their traditions and customs, the first and second World  Nomad Games have been held, attracting the attention of the whole world. At the Second World Nomad Games, in 2016, the  representatives of 62 States took part. I wish to take this opportunity to invite the Member States of UNESCO to the Third  World Nomad Games, to be held next year in Kyrgyzstan. For the protection of the languages, cultures and identities of the  peoples of Eurasia, under the aegis of Kyrgyz President Almazbek Atambayev, an international forum was held in Bishkek in  the summer of 2017, entitled Altai Civilization and Related Peoples of the Altaic Language Family. Over 100 scholars,  historians and archaeologists from a variety of countries took part in the work of the forum. In that connection, we have also  opened a Centre for Nomad Civilization in Issyk-Kul.
(2.4) In Kyrgyzstan, we are currently preparing a long-term sustainable development strategy for the country to 2040. An  important component of this will be a national high-technology project entitled “Taza koom”, which means “Smart country” in  English. Its aim is to promote the principles of e-government and open society in our country. We call upon international  donors to support this project.
(2.5) Speaking of education in general, particular importance must also be attached to the education and upbringing of the  younger generation. Clearly, one of the causes of the radicalization of some religious movements is the low quality of  education systems, which are not geared to modern aspirations or the needs of society, or to raising young people to be  tolerant and peace-loving. In September 2017, as part of the fight against the radicalization of religion, a conference entitled  Islam in a Modern Secular State was held in Kyrgyzstan, at which leading theologians expressed their ideas on the role and  place of religion in modern society. I am certain that holding such events will help us to tackle present-day challenges  effectively.
(2.6) On the subject of environmental protection, I wish to draw attention to the problem of the rapid melting of the glaciers  of Kyrgyzstan, which are natural stores and sources of fresh water in Central Asia. This is why Kyrgyzstan supports the  implementation of joint projects for the preservation of glaciers in headwater countries. We are also making efforts for the  protection of the snow leopard. Owing to climate change, the biodiversity of our mountain ecosystems is threatened with  disappearance. In particular, the world’s snow leopard population has fallen by half since the 1990s. In that connection, in
2013 and 2017 Kyrgyzstan hosted the International Snow Leopard and its Ecosystem Forum, the outcome of which was the  adoption of the Global Snow Leopard and Ecosystem Protection Programme, as well as the creation of a multinational  programme at the regional level with a focus on biodiversity protection in our countries.
(2.7) Kyrgyzstan is therefore ready to contribute to the noble work of UNESCO and to make every effort to ensure more  effective protection and preservation of the cultural and natural heritage of humanity, and also to work to enhance legal  mechanisms of international cooperation for the protection of world heritage sites. In that connection, Kyrgyzstan is a  candidate for membership of the World Heritage Committee for 2018-2021 and calls upon Member States to support our  candidacy.
(2.8) To conclude my statement, I wish to emphasize that Kyrgyzstan, together with other Members of the Organization,  continues to work on enhancement of the quality of education, on the advancement and introduction of innovative partnership  projects, on the protection of the cultural, natural and spiritual heritage, on the introduction into education of information and  communication technology, on sustainable development, and on solving ecological problems. Thank you for your attention.
3. The President:   Thank you, Madam. I will now give the floor to Her Excellency Ms Alissandra Cummins, Deputy Head of  Delegation of Barbados. Madam, you have the floor.
4.1 Ms Cummins (Barbados):   Madam President, Madam Director-General, Your Excellencies, heads of delegations, distinguished delegates.  Madam President, on behalf of the Government of Barbados, I take this opportunity to offer warmest congratulations to  you on your assumption of the presidency of this session of the General Conference. I also wish to thank your  distinguished predecessor for his contribution to the success of the Organization during the last biennium. We wish to  commend Ms Irina Bokova for an excellent job during her two terms as Director-General.
4.2 Barbados takes pleasure in welcoming New Caledonia, a sister island, as the newest Associate Member of  UNESCO. Barbados recognizes the pivotal role that education has to play in the attainment of the Sustainable  Development Goals (SDGs). Barbados has been steadfastly increasing its efforts in implementing the 2030 Agenda for  Sustainable Development through the establishment of a special unit to coordinate its implementation, thus  demonstrating national ownership and leadership in the process. The special unit will provide advice to the Prime  Minister’s Office on the positions that Barbados should adopt and promote in the regional, hemispheric and international  sustainable development fora. Barbados, through its Ministry of Education, Science, Technology and Innovation, is fully  committed to SDG 4 and the Education 2030 Agenda. Some of Barbados’ main objectives in this regard are to increase  access to early childhood education from 80% to 100%; increase access to tertiary level education from the current 28%  to 35%, and to develop a workforce that is equipped to adapt to a rapidly-changing environment and is readily re- trainable.
4.3 Madam President, distinguished delegates, with respect to the environment we continue to witness and observe  the severe effects of global warming and climate change. The recent devastation experienced in the Caribbean after the  passage of hurricanes Irma and Maria, two of the strongest hurricanes in recorded history, makes us even more  cognizant of the fact that there must be commitment and support systems in place at the global level to address all risks  associated with climate change, particularly in response to the vulnerabilities of the small island developing States  (SIDS). As agreed during the twenty-first Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on  Climate Change  (COP 21) in Paris no less than two years ago, it is the hope of small States like ours that the  implementation of those decisions can still be realized. Our thoughts go to the delegations attending COP 23 in Bonn,  which begins today. Consequently, Barbados has established a National Climate Change Committee (NCCC) to oversee  the development and implementation of specific programmes and activities to address mitigation and adaptation, through  a series of management, monitoring and assessment programmes.
4.4 Barbados greatly appreciates that small island developing States (SIDS) remain a priority for UNESCO and  welcomes the UNESCO SIDS Action Plan (2016-2021). Barbados pledges to continue its collaborative work with  UNESCO in this area. The Director-General’s initiatives in support of building the resilience of SIDS in the face of climate  change have been critically important, and are commendable, particularly with respect to her team’s work in concluding  the preparation of a declaration of ethical principles in relation to climate change. Barbados has made clear its intention  to be actively involved in disaster risk management, as witnessed through the renewal of the Memorandum of  Understanding between the Government of Barbados and the UNESCO Intergovernmental Oceanographic Commission  (IOC) concerning mutual interest in the Caribbean Tsunami Information Centre (CTIC), in February of this year.
4.5 With respect to culture, Barbados’ national priorities align with UNESCO’s strategic objectives 7 and 8 relating to  the sustainable management and interpretation of Barbados’ world heritage city, Historic Bridgetown and its Garrison,  thus supporting the achievement of SDG 11. In an effort to broaden its economic base, Barbados is seeking to foster  dynamic cultural and creative industries, through the establishment of our Cultural Industries Development Authority.  Barbados is also actively engaged in the application of the 2015 Recommendation concerning the Protection and  Promotion of Museums and Collections, their Diversity and their Role in Society, with particular emphasis on their social  and educational roles as vectors for intercultural dialogue and sustainable development.
4.6 Finally, with respect to communication and information, Barbados endorses UNESCO’s initiatives to “foster  universal access to information and knowledge resources available to Member States, through the use of ICTs”, by  means of new media and information literacy (MIL) initiatives, particularly where it can empower local communities to  implement participatory disaster risk reduction strategies and provide access to self-directed learning tools for open,  flexible and online e-learning. At the same time, Barbados has been actively involved in the growth of the Memory of the  World Programme in the Caribbean, addressing the challenges of preservation of the documentary heritage, in order to  truly reflect the contribution made by previously marginalized communities. Madam President, I wish to reiterate  Barbados’ commitment to this highly important Organization and look forward to UNESCO continuing its indispensable  work in the future. Je vous remercie.
5. The President:   Thank you, Madam. And now I will give the floor to His Excellency Mr Loau Solamalemalo Keneti Sio, Minister of  Education, Sports and Culture of Samoa.
6.1 Mr Sio (Samoa):    Madam President, distinguished Heads of State and government delegations, Madam Director-General of  UNESCO, Excellencies, ladies and gentlemen. Talofa lava and warm greetings to you all from the heart of the Pacific,  Samoa. Madam President, our heartiest congratulations to you on your election as President of the 39th session of the  General Conference. I commend also the diligence and commitment of your predecessor and the outgoing Director- General. May God bless you all.
6.2 It is a pleasure to be present at this very important conference. I wish to extend to UNESCO our sincere  appreciation for the continuing assistance to education in many parts of the world including the Pacific. Your contribution  to peacebuilding, poverty eradication, lasting development and intercultural dialogue, with education as one of the key  pillars to achieve this aim needs to be reiterated. This is why Samoa is committed to UNESCO and I assure you that we  will continue to be proactive in our efforts to take steps towards achieving our collective vision and fundamental duty for a  better world.
6.3 At the 38th session of the General Conference, you were informed of some of Samoa’s achievements. These  include the signing of the instrument of accession to the 2005 UNESCO Convention on the Protection and Promotion of  the Diversity of Cultural Expressions. In March this year, we held a dialogue on science, technology and innovation (STI)  in Apia and signed the Apia Ministerial Communiqué on Pacific Science, Technology and Innovation. The aim was to  encourage the Pacific Member States to use UNESCO’s technical capacity, in cooperation with the Council of Regional  Organizations in the Pacific (CROP), to enhance science, technology and mathematics education, establish science  advice mechanisms, promote indigenous knowledge systems and build capacities in STI policy areas and research. On
26 and 27 September 2017, the Government of Samoa, with technical and financial support from UNESCO, held a  workshop to develop a science, technology and innovation policy for Samoa. The workshop provided us with an  opportunity to raise awareness on the importance of STI as an enabler of sustainable development across all sectors. An  STI policy can and should assist Samoa to achieve its priorities as set out in the Strategy for the Development of Samoa  and its commitments under the United Nations 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development, otherwise known as the  Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). Samoa is now working on the development of a national strategy for STI. Our  collective actions towards STI, as well as the Kazan Action Plan, are crucial and should be recognized during this forum  for more concrete actions for the way forward.
6.4 Madam President, the achievement of the SDGs is something we have taken on board seriously. We are  confident that the innovative approaches that we, as a small country, have adopted will no doubt contribute to positive  developments for education. In terms of policy development, we have developed policies for early childhood  development, child protection, school governance and leadership, minimum service standards at all levels and inclusive  education to better address educational opportunities for students with disabilities. As part of our Ministry’s programme  for improved student learning outcomes, we have strengthened our focus on literacy and numeracy to include science.  The development of students’ critical thinking and problem solving through innovation and the application of their daily  experiences to learning needs are taken to the next level. Last year, for example, we ran a programme on 8 September  to celebrate UNESCO’s International Literacy Day.
6.5 We do not want our students to be left behind, so we have taken steps to ensure information technology tools  such as tablets are made more accessible to our schools to provide learning aids for teachers and students. We have  prioritized the enhancement of pathways for young students through the development of a technical and vocational  education and training (TVET) strategy for secondary schools. The implementation of this strategy will address the  issues of dropout and the adaption of curricula to industry needs, and encourage girls’ participation in TVET courses.  Young people are not just the future but also the key drivers of change and can make a huge difference if their role is  taken to another level. I commend UNESCO’s initiatives for youth around the world, and appeal for more opportunities  for our young people. They can bring fresh ideas, enthusiasm and vitality, which can lead to more innovative  developments benefitting society and the world at large.
6.6 Madam President, it goes without saying that the small island States of the Pacific are experiencing the impacts  of climate change more than larger countries. The risks posed are a threat we live with on a daily basis. The adverse  effects of climate change are real, and as leaders of our global community, the time to act is now. The Pacific Island  Countries (PIC) acknowledge the dedicated efforts made by the UNESCO Secretariat, in particular the UNESCO Office  in Apia, to assist our various education initiatives. Madam President, the challenges will not go away, but with concerted  efforts taken to address them, we will be able to make a difference. May God bless you all. Soifua.
7. La Présidente :    Thank you Minister. Et maintenant je donne la parole à S. E. M. Deng Hoc Yai, Ministre de l’enseignement  général du Soudan du Sud.
8.1 Mr Yai (South Sudan):   Your Excellencies, ladies and gentlemen, I am delighted to deliver this statement on behalf of my country, the  Republic of South Sudan. First, I would like to convey a message of congratulations to the new Director-General of  UNESCO. We wish you success in your new assignment. We also commend the outgoing Director-General, Irina  Bokova, for her leadership and many successes.
8.2 UNESCO is needed now more than in 1945. UNESCO is expected to build on the successes of the last 72 years  and tackle the emerging global threats to international peace and global security. Therefore, UNESCO should double its  efforts to construct the defences of peace in the minds of men and women to prevent eruption of more conflicts and  wars. In the same vein, UNESCO should do more to promote the common welfare of the human race.
8.3 For our part, South Sudan is committed to peace at home, in Africa and throughout the world. Since August
2015, when our President, H.E. Salva Kiir Mayardit, signed the Agreement on the Resolution of the Conflict in the  Republic of South Sudan, we have achieved significant progress in its implementation. Our President has also launched  the National Dialogue Initiative, which complements the peace agreement, and consultation meetings are being held in  various parts of our country to enable our citizens to reach a consensus on local and national issues under discussion.  South Sudan is also strengthening its bilateral relations, especially with its neighbours, to strengthen peace and security.  In addition, South Sudan has joined the East African Community (EAC) and is working together with the partner States of
256  the EAC to widen and deepen cooperation in political, economic, social and cultural fields, defence, security and legal  and judicial affairs.
8.4 In order to achieve Sustainable Development Goal (SDG) 4, South Sudan has developed a national general  education policy for 2017-2027 and a general education strategic plan for 2017-2022. These roadmaps will enable us to  reform the education system of South Sudan in order to provide all children, youth and adults with equitable access to  quality education free of charge. However, our biggest challenge is the lack of funding for general education due to the  civil war in my country. Funding is key to success. With funding from the United Kingdom, we were able to provide cash  transfers to over 120,000 girls in schools last year and over 200,000 girls this year. We will build on these successes and  achieve gender equality in general education by 2030. We take this opportunity to urge UNESCO to play a bigger role in  the implementation of SDG 4 and the rest of the SDGs in order to transform our world.
8.5 Climate change is the biggest threat to planet Earth and the human race. The 2015 Paris Agreement on Climate  Change has the potential to tackle climate change, and South Sudan is implementing it. However, lack of funding for  mitigation, adaptation, technology transfer, training and development, and loss and damage are bound to undermine it if  the developed countries continue to be reluctant to give money to the developing countries. The Paris Agreement is the  way forward and must be implemented by all Member States, who must demonstrate strong leadership and iron  determination to protect the planet and save the human race.
8.6 We must also tackle poverty and achieve prosperity for all the people of the world. My country, South Sudan,  and many African Union (AU) Member States have developed the AU Agenda 2063, which aspires to achieve prosperity,  among other things. This is not a far-fetched dream. With support from the developed countries and through South-South  cooperation, my country and many other African countries can utilize and add value to their vast natural resources,  educate and empower millions of youth and achieve economic development. Africa can become the continent of the  future. This is by no means an impossible mission. We can achieve prosperity for all humanity if we are determined to do  so.
8.7 In conclusion, partnerships involving all Member States will continue to be key to our success. UNESCO’s  Member States need to work together to create a conducive atmosphere in Africa for youth to access jobs and generate  income opportunities in Africa, instead of migrating to Europe and in the process losing their lives crossing the  Mediterranean Sea. Let us do our best and pray that God will do the rest. Thank you very much.
9. La Présidente :    Thank you Minister. Et maintenant je donne la parole à S. E. Mme Nicolette Henry, Ministre de l’éducation du  Guyana.
10.1 Ms Henry (Guyana):   Madam President, Mr Chairperson of the Executive Board, Madam Director-General, Ministers, Excellencies,  heads of delegations, delegates, distinguished guests, ladies and gentlemen. On behalf of the Government and people  of Guyana, I wish to congratulate Madam President on being unanimously elected President of the 39th session of the  General Conference of UNESCO. Madam President, Guyana applauds UNESCO for its outstanding work in education,  science and culture. On that note, please permit me to express intense gratitude for the years of beneficial collaboration  between UNESCO and Guyana. Guyana salutes the Director-General of UNESCO, Ms Irina Bokova, for her astute and  stellar leadership in our global village. As a country, we would like to thank you for your report on the activities of  UNESCO contained in document 39 C/5.
10.2 Today, Guyana is a country of bright prospects, but also one of colossal complexities. In recognition of Guyana’s  prospects and the role of education, science and culture, our President, His Excellency David Granger, has  commissioned the Department of Education Systems, Innovation and Reform to spearhead efforts in transforming the  education system into one that will provide the people of Guyana with a first-class education. At the heart of this  transformation are information, science and technology, which pull us together relentlessly, integrating our commonalities  and connecting our country with the world.
10.3 Madam President, during the past two years Guyana has embarked on several initiatives for the development of  its peoples. In education, we are focusing on teacher training in microscience, mathematics, and developing Guyana as  a “green” State. More than 50% of our teachers have been trained in curricula areas, with direct results in the constantly  improving student performance for our national grade-six examination and the Caribbean Secondary Education  Certificate (CSEC). Through instructional education, distance education in Guyana is addressing the disparity in access  to quality education between coastland and hinterland communities. Issues related to gender parity are also a priority for  Guyana. An inter-ministerial task force was established in 2016 to address these issues and has yielded great success.
10.4 The long-standing National Youth Policy has also been finalized. This policy sets out a framework and action  plan and makes recommendations for transformative shifts in policies, practices and institutions to promote the renewed  self-esteem, pride and civic responsibility that come with education. It is important that these policies be carried out to  expand opportunities for our young people. It is also essential to our nation that we train the next generation of leaders in  the areas of agriculture, commerce, science and technology to be innovative and creative and lead Guyana into a new  era of prosperity, dignity and pride that will lay the foundations for generations to come.
10.5 Madam President, in science, UNESCO has provided both financial and technical assistance for a number of  projects in Guyana with astounding results. From 2009 to the present, its partnership with Guyana’s National Center for  Educational Resource Development (NCERD) has resulted in a number of significant initiatives. In 2014-2015, Guyana  built capacities in climate change education for sustainable development (CCESD) through an inquiry-based science and  mathematics programme for selected primary schools.
10.6 Madam President, it should be noted that Guyana is a country with a rich and diverse cultural heritage. Culture  plays a critical role in shaping Guyanese identity. Creative activity has tremendous potential for contributing more to  national development through the diversification of the economy. Guyana currently has a draft policy that focuses on  three critical thematic areas, namely, mainstreaming culture in development, the preservation, protection and promotion  of cultural heritage and the development of creative arts and cultural industries. The preservation and protection of  cultural heritage is currently Guyana’s strongest area of operation, with long-established programmes, particularly in the  field of the protection of built heritage. The successes here have been reflected most recently in the National Trust of  Guyana winning an internationally recognized Green Apple Award in 2016 for its work on built heritage protection.  Implementation strategies for the draft policy will be based on national development. The policy focuses on long-term  sustainability and resilience, taking into account social, economic, technological, environmental and political factors.  Consequently, the primary focus in this regard has to be on consultation, consensus, resource mobilization, and  innovation.
10.7 Madam President, Guyana looks forward to working closely with UNESCO on supporting our programme  initiatives, which enable our country to achieve the Government’s vision as well as the goals of the 2030 Agenda for  Sustainable Development. In closing, Guyana would greatly appreciate the valuable support of Member States for its  candidature to the Executive Board of UNESCO. I thank you for the opportunity to deliver this statement at the 39th  session of the General Conference of UNESCO. Thank you.
11. La Présidente :    Thank you Madam. Et maintenant je donne la parole à S. E. M. Xuejun Tian, Vice-Ministre de l’éducation de  Chine.
(12.1) Mr Tian (China) (translation from the Chinese):   Your Excellency Madam President of the General Conference, Your Excellency Madam Director-General, ladies and  gentlemen, before I start, please allow me to congratulate Your Excellency Ms Zohour Alaoui, Ambassador of Morocco, on  your election as President of the present session of the General Conference. I believe that, under your leadership, this session  of the General Conference will be a great success.
(12.2) Over the past two years, UNESCO has made great efforts on every front to implement the 2030 Agenda for  Sustainable Development despite the difficult financial situation. The Organization has exerted irreplaceable leadership in and  impact in the fields of education, sciences, culture, and information and communication, thanks to the joint efforts of Member
258  States, diligent work of the Secretariat, and in particular the extraordinary contributions by the Director-General. Please accept  the assurances of my highest consideration, Madam Director-General.
(12.3) Today, we live in an age of increasing inter-connectedness and interdependence among nations, of co-existing  pluralistic societies and diverse cultures, and of intertwined turmoil and conflicts. Globally, education, science and culture are  facing new challenges as well as opportunities. UNESCO should further focus on its core mandates and, building on the  understanding and trust of all Member States, put forward new ideas, strategies and plans in response to new and ever- changing challenges.
(12.4) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, as we are about to enter the final four-year cycle of the current Medium- Term Strategy, allow me to take this opportunity to discuss with all of you the development plans of the Organization for the  coming years. In response to complex challenges facing our world today, we need to foster inclusive, innovative and  responsible global citizenship, and education is the best path to achieve this goal. During the BRICS Summit held in Xiamen  last September, China and UNESCO co-organized the award ceremony of the second edition of the UNESCO Prize for Girls’  and Women’s Education. China will continue to promote gender equality in education, support the work of the Education 2030  Steering Committee and implement projects for the assistance to Africa, including the China Fund-in-Trust education project.  China is also willing to share with other countries its experience in terms of education prioritization as part of its efforts to  provide each child with access to equitable quality education.
(12.5) A new round of technological innovation and energy revolution is reshaping human society. Around the world,  UNESCO’s biosphere reserves networks, global geoparks, and tsunami early warning systems have provided important  support for the development of a modern society where human and nature coexist in harmony. China will be fully committed to  its obligations under the Paris Agreement for Climate Change and will unwaveringly implement the concept of “innovative,  coordinated, green, open and common” development. We hope that UNESCO takes greater advantage of its multidisciplinary  and transdisciplinary expertise to help Member States, especially small island developing States (SIDS) and other developing  countries, to achieve well-coordinated economic, social and environmental development.
(12.6) In a context of economic globalization and social informatization, exchange and mutual learning among different  civilizations have become the norm. The Belt and Road Forum for International Cooperation hosted by China earlier this year  proves to be an effective promotion of connectivity and people-to-people bonding. China hopes to work with other countries in  discussing, building and benefiting from the “Belt and Road Initiative”, so that among different civilizations, communication  overrides misconception, mutual learning outweighs conflicts, and coexistence supersedes any sense of superiority.
(12.7) Cyberspace has exerted a profound impact on the way people work and live. China fully supports the preservation of  linguistic resources and documentary heritage in the digital age and is willing to take part in the development of international  order and rules in cyberspace, and to contain the spread of violent extremism.
(12.8) Draft document 39 C/5 reflects the painstaking efforts by the Secretariat and the consensus among Member States.  We propose that, while keeping expenditures within the limits of income, further efforts be made to optimize resources and  prioritize key focuses, so as to ensure the sound implementation of UNESCO’s programmes and priorities. China suggests  that all Member States take proactive measures and that National Commissions play a better role as coordinator and planner  to promote wider public involvement.
(12.9) The successful closing of the 19th National Congress of the Communist Party of China marked the beginning of a new  era for China’s modernization drive. China will unswervingly keep to its path of peaceful development, promote the  establishment of new international relations based on mutual respect, equity and justice, and mutual benefit and a win-win  principle, and work to build a community of common destiny. China reaffirms its commitment to the lofty cause of UNESCO  and hopes to work with UNESCO and all nations to adhere to multilateralism, uphold international justice and make  unremitting efforts to build a world that is durably peaceful, universally safe, open and inclusive, and beautiful and clean.
13. La Présidente :    Thank you Minister. Et maintenant je donne la parole à S. E. M. Dennis Wanchinga, Ministre de l’enseignement  général de Zambie.
14.1 Mr Wanchinga (Zambia):   Madam President of the General Conference, Mr Chairperson of the Executive Board, Madam Director-General,  Honourable Ministers, Your Excellencies, distinguished delegates. Zambia wishes to join UNESCO Member States in  congratulating you, Madam, on your election as President of the 39th session of the General Conference. We also wish  to congratulate Ms Audrey Azoulay, the incoming Director-General, and I assure you all of Zambia’s unwavering support.  Zambia also pays tribute to the outgoing Director-General, Ms Irina Bokova, who has steered UNESCO through a very  trying and difficult period during her tenure in office.
14.2 Madam President, my country has made tremendous strides in improving the welfare of its citizens since joining  the Organization on 9 November 1964, barely 16 days after attaining independence on 24 October 1964. In the  educational sector, Zambia is committed to the realization of the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), the Education
2030 Agenda and Africa’s Agenda 2063. In this regard, we are reviewing the policy and legal framework guiding the  entire education system.
14.3 As a country, we have continued implementing interventions aimed at attaining SDG 4 through the provision of  inclusive and equitable quality education, the promotion of lifelong learning opportunities, continuous professional  development for teachers and the provision of teaching and learning materials and other required equipment and  facilities. With the assistance of UNESCO and the Swedish International Development Cooperation Agency (SIDA),  Zambia has developed materials for the teaching of comprehensive and quality education and more than 60% of its  teachers have been trained in this regard. Zambia also benefits from the UNESCO-China Funds-in-Trust (CFIT), through  which two colleges of education are being transformed into information and communication technology (ICT) centres of  excellence for teacher education. We have also partnered with UNESCO through the Capacity Development for  Education for All (CapEFA) programme, which is geared to enhancing quality in teacher education, technical education,  vocational and entrepreneurship training and higher education. We are focusing on enhancing access, quality, equity and
259  efficiency in the provision of skills training and development. In this regard, a skills training fund has been set up to  provide access to quality skills training, with enhanced participation of the private sector in curriculum review, skills  development financing and the provision of industrial experience.
14.4 Madam President, Zambia is working with UNESCO in promoting quality higher education through the  strengthening of its quality assurance system, as we are one of the ten Member States who have assembled under the  UNESCO-Shenzhen Municipality Government Funds-in-Trust Project on strengthening quality assurance in higher  education in Africa. Zambia is also repositioning science, technology and innovation to make them the driving forces  behind the sustainable development agenda, through the promotion of the teaching and learning of science, technology,  engineering and mathematics (STEM) subjects in schools and public universities, as well as the promotion of scientific  research in institutions of learning. Zambia has recognized that a shortage of STEM skills is more common with regard to  girls and women. With this in mind, we have established a scholarship scheme for girls and women to support and  encourage them in science, engineering and research at all levels. Zambia has also invested in research in infectious  diseases for humans and animals, and incubation centres for start-up businesses have been established to help  commercialize various innovations and research projects in line with SDG 9.
14.5 Madam President, a Centre for Nuclear Science and Technology (CNST) is being built to provide a sustainable  source of energy for the country. We have also established a receiving station for earth observation data, thereby  building capacities for Earth observation not only to promote and enhance the quality of meteorological data and Earth  observation, but also to boost learning for food security and help avert climate change and other disasters. With regard to  social and human sciences, we will continue to scale up social protection programmes in order to ensure that the  vulnerable in society are provided for and that social services such as water and sanitation are given to the poor.
14.6 Madam President, regarding the cultural sector, Zambia recognizes the role culture plays in promoting stability  and unity. Thus, we are finalizing the 2005 Convention on the Protection and Promotion of the Diversity of Cultural  Expressions, and exploring opportunities for the promotion of sustainable development through the conservation of world  heritage properties. Distinguished ladies and gentlemen, communication and information are playing a critical role in  developing the lives of our citizens. In this regard, we have established the Smart Zambia Institute to spearhead all ICT  activities in the country. To respond to all the country’s skills requirements and capacity-building needs as it moves  towards the establishment of the e-government system, we have set up an ICT centre of excellence. The country has  also laid a fibre-optic national ICT backbone and is migrating from analogue to digital systems. This process will be  completed by the end of 2017.
14.7 Madam President, in conclusion, I wish on behalf of the country to reaffirm our continued commitment to the  tenets upon which UNESCO was established and the mandate that this great Organization must fulfil. We shall remain a  proud member of UNESCO. I thank you all. Thank you.
15. La Présidente :    Thank you Minister. Et maintenant je voudrais donner la parole à S. E. Mme Claudia Reinprecht, Ambassadrice  de l’Autriche auprès de l’UNESCO. Excellence.
16.1 Ms Reinprecht (Austria):   Madam President of the General Conference, Mr Deputy Director-General, Excellencies, distinguished  delegates. It is an honour for me to address the General Conference at its 39th session on behalf of Austria. We fully  align ourselves with the European Union’s statement. From the outset, allow me to thank Ms Bokova for her unwavering  commitment to UNESCO and her leadership in the past eight years during difficult times. Let me also take this  opportunity to congratulate Ms Azoulay for her nomination. Rest assured, Ms Azoulay, you can count on Austria’s full  support to make UNESCO great again.
16.2 Ladies and gentlemen, we are witnessing huge transformation and the world can, at times, seem to be a messy  place. UNESCO comes into play where today’s transformations touch upon the very essence of what makes us human,  the ways we interact, forge our identities, build communities and distinguish truths from fabrications. Its mission and  vision are fundamental to achieving the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) of the 2030 Agenda. Today, our  commitment to UNESCO is a matter of interest as much as of principles and values. Since the adoption of the 2030  Agenda, the world is no longer divided between developed and developing countries. We have come to realize that we  can only develop together, face our challenges together and solve our problems together. Our work is not a zero-sum  game. Only together can we ultimately be stronger. We believe there is no other way.
16.3 Ladies and gentlemen, SDG 4 on education currently has one of the clearest follow-up mechanisms of all the  goals, a demonstration of UNESCO asserting its leadership and living up to its mandate. The 2030 Agenda cannot be  achieved without education for sustainable development (ESD), global citizenship education and human rights. The  importance of culture for the achievement of many of the SDGs such as safe and resilient cities, decent work, and  economic growth, gender equality or peaceful and inclusive societies cannot be understated. In difficult times, we need  UNESCO more than ever, as a lighthouse, opposing all the new communitarian narratives with the redeeming vision of a  shared cultural heritage of humanity. That must be protected. We need UNESCO to promote the diversity of cultural  expressions, for instance, through the International Fund for Cultural Diversity (IFCD) that supports cultural industries  and innovative cultural business models. This contributes directly to strengthening communities. We need UNESCO to  mitigate some of the side effects of urbanization and migration by promoting traditional knowledge and practices.
16.4 UNESCO needs to do the right things and assume leadership where it can make a difference. It is safe to say  that UNESCO has taken a pivotal role in, and made a crucial contribution to, issues of fresh water and sustainable water  resources. UNESCO championed the view that science, knowledge and innovation should be put to the service of
260  policymakers to achieve the 2030 Agenda. We think there is a clear need for UNESCO to raise its profile and take the  lead within United Nations Water (UN-Water). Technological, economic and political transformations are inexorably  reshaping the whole communications landscape. We need UNESCO to be in the fore and promote the freedom of  opinion and expression underpinning free media and the safety of journalists. UNESCO is uniquely positioned to ensure  that technological progress serves the people, reaches the marginalized and allows for the progress of democratic  values around the world. Only by doing this will UNESCO contribute to the achievement of sustainable development.
16.5 Ladies and gentlemen, our commitment to UNESCO comes with a fierce commitment to multilateralism and  dialogue. This is not a choice but a necessity. Here in UNESCO, this means we need to take a step back. We need to  stop thinking in terms of winners and losers, introduce an open-door policy and talk to each other more. The  extraordinary challenges the Organization faces at this moment require a new style of cooperation and dialogue among  Member States, as well as between Member States and the Secretariat. We encourage the new Director-General and  her whole management team to propose proactively to us how best to position UNESCO in light of the broader United  Nations reform, how to make UNESCO stronger and more effective. We encourage you to make bold proposals, share  your expertise and exercise leadership. Programmes must always come first in defined structures.
16.6 Madam President, distinguished delegates, UNESCO needs the leadership of all of us to protect it from harmful  politicization and allow it to focus on bringing tangible value to the people. This is not the place to engage in bilateral  conflicts. UNESCO at this moment in time simply does not have the capacities or resources to provide the arena for  controversies, nor is this its purpose. The rule should be that if a conflict cannot be solved by dialogue, then UNESCO is  not the right place for it. Austria will continue to be a strong partner in support of UNESCO, multilateralism, dialogue and  reform. We stand ready to support UNESCO without reserve or conditions. Thank you very much.
(17) The President (translation from the Spanish):   The next speaker is His Excellency, Mr Galo Mora Witt, Ambassador and Permanent Delegate of Ecuador to  UNESCO.
(18.1) Mr Mora Witt (Ecuador) (translation from the Spanish):   Madam President, Mr Chairperson of the Executive Board, Ministers, representatives, heads of missions, guests. The  last decade has meant a period of profound transformations for Ecuador in the field of education, as various Latin American  institutions and UNESCO itself have recognized. Ecuador has worked constantly and rigorously to make our continent a  peaceful territory by mediating in the Colombian conflict. The 2008 Constitution was the first ever to enshrine the rights of  nature. Social investment in scientific research has been multiplied and has received special attention from the State. Although  an optimal situation has not yet been established, gender equality could be considered one of the greatest of social advances,  and is deemed a right and not a mere concession to false tolerance, which is only another form of supremacy.
(18.2) Culture as a social construct constitutes an endless network of disputed symbolic and everyday scenarios from which  it is not possible to derive statistics which could serve as points of contention or denial. The foundational nature of our  Organization, under the previous conditions, could provide the basis for a discourse reflecting the duty, good intentions and  political excellence of democratic governments, and specifically in our case, reflecting the evidence of our achievements in the  last 10 years.
(18.3) However, we are not here to report on our achievements, because the world stage demands another kind of statement  or speech, related instead to global intrigues and drama and the conditions under which UNESCO discusses and recreates its  mechanisms and objectives. In fact, given the critical situation, it would be more fitting to speak of an agony or of a possible  resurrection, a mixture of the stories of Lazarus and the phoenix. What we must really convey concerns a word that, because  traditional, seems to have been forgotten: justice. Generally, meagre budgetary matters are discussed ad nauseam and then  everyone tries to grab their piece of the proverbial pie to ensure the consecration of their effort or need. This is absurd,  however, as you cannot distribute poverty. What we must do, if we still wish for UNESCO to keep its status as the moral  reserve of humanity, is demand contributions – but not only from Member States, as I will explain later.
(18.4) The United States of America, which recently communicated its decision to leave the Organization because of its  alleged politicization, and which formally recognized its debt to UNESCO, has an annual defence budget of $611 billion, and  according to the numbers published by the Stockholm International Peace Research Institute (SIPRI), if you were to add up  the defence budgets of the world’s 10 biggest military spenders, the total would amount to $1,239 billion. Amidst this martial  maelstrom, should UNESCO have to scrape together a few funds in order to survive? It is time to speak of a change in the  world order, which means invoking justice. To those who might ask, “What funds could enable such a drastic change?”, the  global community could reply, “With 0.00001% of military spending, UNESCO would multiply its budget by 1,000”. While that  may seem utopian, we should remember what the American author Mark Twain said: “In the beginning of a change, the patriot  is a scarce man, and brave, and hated and scorned. When his cause succeeds, the timid join him, for then it costs nothing to  be a patriot.”
(18.5) The unimpeded defence of the planet is also a matter of justice, as well as one of survival and even intelligence. I will  quote another American, Henry David Thoreau this time, who, many years before the concept of climate change had even  originated, wrote, “What is the use of a house if you haven’t got a tolerable planet to put it on?” Values have been mixed up,  and not only values, but also meanings and even semantics. Discussing Palestine and its condition as an occupied territory is  not political. It is justice. Discussing the pressing need to end the embargo against Cuba is not political. It is justice. It is just  and proper to speak of the defence of journalists’ lives, as many journalists have been assassinated for observing, seeing,  speaking and reporting, which are certainly atrocious crimes that should be severely punished. However, it is also an ethical  offence to lie, and well do we know that every day, colossal amounts of false, deceptive, distorted and biased information are  released. Freedom of expression does not equate to freedom of enterprise, and I have, in that regard, a new proposal –  illusory, perhaps – but without dreams, memory, imagination and the future are meaningless.
(18.6) Every day, UNESCO works tirelessly to defend heritage, fight against trafficking of cultural property, and make other  significant contributions through its major platforms for peace, but there are no global information channels. I propose that  UNESCO found a universal, public television network, safeguarded and supported by every government so that people may  appreciate and love those who defend peace, history, tradition, the arts and culture. Some may again ask, “With what  resources?” and perhaps the answer is to collect taxes from those who have turned memory into a trade, history into a  transaction and culture into a futile entertainment. Let us walk towards the future with valour, motivated by decisions that fill us  with dignity. In this way, we may take pride in not having invoked peace, education, culture, justice and freedom in vain. Thank  you very much.
19. La Présidente:    Gracias Su Excelencia. Et maintenant je donne la parole à S. E. M. Federico Renjifo Vélez, Ambassadeur,  Délégué permanent de Colombie auprès de l’UNESCO.
(20.1) Mr Renjifo Vélez (Colombia) (translation from the Spanish):   Mr Deputy Director-General, Madam President of the General Conference – congratulations, Ms Alaoui, on your  election – representatives of Member States, ladies and gentlemen, friends. First of all, I wish to add my voice to that of those  who expressed their recognition and appreciation to Director-General Irina Bokova for her efforts and commitment to leading  UNESCO in complex circumstances. On behalf of the Colombian Government, I also welcome the next Director-General,  Ms Audrey Azoulay, and wish her every success in her leadership. I assure her of Colombia’s willingness to work together on  the achievement of UNESCO’s objectives.
(20.2) It has now been a year since the Colombian Government and the Revolutionary Armed Forces of Colombia (FARC)  signed a peace agreement following an armed conflict that lasted more than 50 years, killed 220,000 people and claimed
8 million victims, who are the focus of our agreement. Signing the peace agreement is changing the course of our history, and  now we ourselves must change to enable a coexistence based on respect for our fellows, especially for those who think  differently. In Colombia, we feel a powerful force pushing us necessarily and irreversibly towards a lasting, stable peace. Many  of you share our history and have experienced the pain of separation from those you love, owing to violence; you have been  driven from your lands towards nothing and, after a long, difficult journey, have found reconciliation and hope.
(20.3) Many of your countries have taught us, through your history, that, one way or another, we had to take the path of  dialogue to achieve peace. And many of your leaders and fellow citizens have helped us to consolidate it, and are still helping  us now. In Colombia, peace has been a collective endeavour, and that is particularly true in the aftermath of the conflict, when  we need precisely the values of multilateralism to support our commitment to a more inclusive, egalitarian, equitable society.  The peace agreement is also a social justice agreement which puts an end to inequalities and generates opportunities for all.
(20.4) Recently, in Colombia, the most vulnerable communities have found in culture a source of creative resistance. Cultural  industries have grown and are now well-established; art festivals have drawn new audiences and are increasingly opening up  to the world; public libraries have multiplied and are today hubs of creativity and citizen culture; young people have found and,  increasingly so, continue to find new opportunities for education and sport as alternatives to violence; and rural populations  have turned local media into platforms for solidarity. Those bearing our traditions have not only maintained, but also  transmitted them, passing them down to new generations; and journalists have raised their voices to denounce violence and  call for peace. The signature of the peace agreement has thus made it possible to recover areas that were gripped by fear,  opening unimaginable development opportunities for populations and regions that had been excluded from modernity.
(20.5) However, Colombia’s situation as the second most biodiverse country on the planet has posed major challenges,  forcing us to come up with innovative proposals and solutions that can, in some way, be summed up in our decision to  propose at the United Nations Conference on Sustainable Development (Rio+20) the sustainable development goals that  served as the basis for the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) and the 2030 Agenda. Today, several of those goals are  enshrined in our laws.
(20.6) When we were preparing to submit our candidacy for membership on the Executive Board for the 2017-2019 period,  we first asked ourselves what aspects of its experience Colombia could share with the world. We also asked ourselves what  we could share with you and with each of your States in terms of the global objectives that bind us together in UNESCO. Our  answer: the testimony of a nation that now stands as a hopeful example for the world. Ours is a resilient country that has lifted  millions of citizens from poverty, has taken the decision to place education at the forefront of development, guaranteeing free  public education and interconnectivity across its whole territory, and is making every effort to protect its biodiversity and its  páramo ecosystems, which provide an exceptional demonstration of the genesis of water. Today, we find that it is more  necessary than ever to uphold UNESCO’s mandate, a mandate that arose from the understanding that the triumph of war was  synonymous with the defeat of humanity. UNESCO was a response to the need to find a path in the aftermath of war. Today,  the global enterprise undertaken in 1942, which has attained a universal character, is an integral part of Colombia’s roadmap  for facing post-conflict challenges.
(20.7) Friends, we wish to reiterate our recognition of multilateralism as the path towards global sustainable development and  peace building worldwide, and of UNESCO as a vital arena for dialogue and cooperation to face the challenges of a world that  is rocked by conflicts and extremism. Education, science, the humanities, culture, sport, information and communication are  the tools we need to become inclusive, tolerant, peaceful societies. We believe in UNESCO as a laboratory for ideas, as the  great forum of humanity and, especially, as a great platform for innovation and change.
(20.8) Finally, allow me to quote our president, Juan Manuel Santos, who said upon receiving the Nobel Peace Prize: “In a  world where citizens are making the most crucial decisions – for themselves and for their nations – out of fear and despair, we  must make the certainty of hope possible”. That is our challenge. Thank you very much.
21. La Présidente :    Et maintenant je voudrais donner la parole à S. E. M. Ahmad Jalali, Ambassadeur, Délégué permanent d’Iran  auprès de l’UNESCO.
22.1 Mr Jalali (Islamic Republic of Iran):   Madam President of the General Conference, Mr Chairperson of the Executive Board, Mr Deputy Director- General, dear colleagues, Excellencies. Madam President, allow me to congratulate you on your election to this  prestigious position. I was truly inspired by your opening remarks, but I do not have time here to expand upon that. I shall  do so on another occasion. I would also like to express my profound gratitude to the esteemed outgoing President of the  General Conference, H.E. Mr Simataa, for his wonderful job. Dear Mr Chairperson of the Executive Board, you  succeeded in conducting the Board in a rather difficult situation. In the final stage, you transparently conducted the  process of the nomination of a new Director-General, Ms Audrey Azoulay, whom I would like to congratulate and assure  of our full support. Our dear Director-General, Ms Irina Bokova, is not here, but I would like to say that she launched her  reform in 2009, which I witnessed as a member of the Senior Expert Group on Reforms. Six of her ten years saw very  serious financial shortfalls, and the reform could not be implemented as she wanted. You will receive the full text of my  statement today, in which I make other points.
22.2 Dear colleagues, this is my tenth session of the General Conference. Numerous conventions, resolutions,  programmes and documents have been approved here. However, why have so many of them remained underutilized?  Should we add to them, or should we instead try to find modalities to better utilize those that we have already? I think a  survey is required.
22.3 Dear colleagues, in my experience, politicization is deforming UNESCO’s DNA. Politics is part and parcel of an  intergovernmental organization – I know that. However, politics differs from politicization, which is injecting politics into  subject matter that is not political by nature. This will culminate in a negative paradigm shift. UNESCO was supposed to  embrace politics of the mind in a transparent, universal form. It is needed for a lasting productive multilateralism with its  own chemistry and prerequisites, as this is greater than the dry sum of elements of bilateralism. However, the trend of
264  depoliticization itself requires political will. This wish is not paradoxical at all – it is an art that UNESCO was supposed to  perform, for which we are bound to design a standing spirit for dialogue. It is for this reason that the title of “laboratory of  ideas” suits UNESCO, but producing ideas is not necessarily the same as producing technical documents.
22.4 I have a lot to say, but not enough time in which to say it. However, because it is recommended in UNESCO that  good practices be shared by others, I would like to report something good that we were happy to do in my country.  However, I would like to recognize beforehand the importance of the expertise of UNESCO’s Secretariat in advising  countries how to prioritize, contextualize and nationalize Sustainable Development Goal 4. Here, I would like to report  that when Ms Bokova visited my country in 2009, we had about 500,000 Afghan child refugees enrolled in schools.  However, there were about 400,000 left outside the system because they did not have any identity papers. We could not  enroll them because even an Iranian citizen needs some identity papers to be enrolled. Now, we have solved that issue.  For two years now, any Afghan child, any refugee with or without documents or identity papers, is enrolled, and all our  schools are required to accept them. Now we have about 900,000 student Afghan refugees in our schools. It is  wonderful, so I would like to mention that. It is my wish that the key concepts of multilateralism, depoliticization and  dialogue shall not be overshadowed in this House. Thank you.
23. La Présidente :    Thank you Your Excellency. Et maintenant je voudrais donner la parole à S. E. M. Roberto Alejandro Ramírez  Aldana, Ambassadeur, Délégué permanent du Honduras auprès de l’UNESCO.
(24.1) Mr Ramírez Aldana (Honduras) (translation from the Spanish):   Excellencies, distinguished ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the State of Honduras, it gives me great pleasure to  congratulate the Kingdom and people of Morocco for having assumed, through Her Excellency Ms Zohour Alaoui, the  presidency of the 39th session of the General Conference of UNESCO; to recognize the strong commitment of  Ambassador Michael Worbs, who took the helm of the Executive Board during the latest two years of his illustrious career at  UNESCO; to reiterate our gratitude to Director-General Ms Irina Bokova and her team for their efforts and work on the  aspirations and goals of the Organization; and, finally, to welcome with much enthusiasm and hope the mandate that we, the  Member States of UNESCO, will give to the next Director-General, Ms Audrey Azoulay.
(24.2) Honduras reaffirms its commitment to adopting and implementing the Education 2030 Framework for Action,  dedicated to fostering more equitable, accessible education. We join our efforts with those of everyone at UNESCO to  continue devising public policies in the field of education under the guiding principles of universality, quality, respect for  diversity, equal rights and the promotion of tolerance, peace and non-violence. To date, we have all addressed and worked  meticulously on educational issues through a cross-cutting approach including all the other fields of competence of the  Organization. However, to fully and universally implement Sustainable Development Goal (SDG) 4 with its targets and  objectives, we must not lose sight of the value inherent to the 16 other SDGs, which explicitly include the values of justice and  peace.
(24.3) We need education to fight poverty, eradicate hunger, combat climate change – as frequently discussed in our  Organization – establish a better health system, establish clean energy sources, enjoy the arts, promote and defend our  cultural and natural heritage, and create more opportunities for employment. Finally, education is also fundamental to reducing  inequalities and establishing democratic systems with solid institutions, governed by peace and justice.
(24.4) The SDGs must be the beacon guiding the future of the world and well-being of our peoples, and education is  unquestionably at their core. As justice is a supreme value, and not a human value in itself, we recognize that it is the bridge to  well-being and the direct route to peace. It is the door to freedom and coexistence between men and women in a world that is  diverse, but respectful of the various ways of thinking, believing and creating. However, to achieve lasting peace, we must first  take valiant action and firm decisions against those who have embraced war as their chosen trade, destruction as their most  prized goal and ignorance as the most effective tool for spreading the darkness of totalitarianism and extremism, as well as the  death of intelligence and of the values of education and culture.
(24.5)  As a Latin American and the current Chairperson of UNESCO’s Latin America and Caribbean Group (GRULAC), I find  it important to stress that in the last 20 years, despite new scenarios of social violence, Latin America has made significant  progress in defeating wars. Our societies have reached maturity, discovering and accepting that peace is the best path to what  we all desire: prosperity and the respect of human rights, democratic institutions and a space conducive to effective  development, placing education, science and culture at the service of peoples.
(24.6) In the great house of humanism that is UNESCO, I would like to invite all the guests of this marvellous space to think  about how we may come to an agreement on improving our world, where water is running out, schools are being destroyed,  hatred is killing thousands of people, hunger is the most lethal weapon wielded against the poorest people, the oceans are  gradually being poisoned, the polar ice caps are melting, great cultural monuments are being destroyed, people are killing  those who think and worship differently, where fields are being concreted over and cities are becoming increasingly  suffocating.
(24.7) Evidently, UNESCO’s budget and the withdrawal of any country deeply concern us, but currently, that is not the  Organization’s greatest problem. Some day, when we discover that all of us who live in the house of humanism need each  other to save a planet teetering on the brink of disaster, maybe we will set our flags aside, forget our borders and practise  solidarity, not as a short- or long-term transaction, but as a way to establish justice and bring about the environment of peace  that we all desire. With UNESCO and with God’s blessing, we still have time. Thank you.
25. La Présidente :    Merci Excellence. Et maintenant je voudrais donner la parole à S. E. M. Byong-hyun Lee, Ambassadeur  extraordinaire et plénipotentiaire, Délégué permanent de la République de Corée auprès de l’UNESCO.
26.1 Mr Lee (Republic of Korea):   Madam President of the General Conference, Mr Chairperson of the Executive Board, Madam Director-General,  Excellencies and distinguished delegates. Let me firstly convey my heartfelt thanks to Ms Irina Bokova for her dedication  and accomplishments over the last eight years of her service to UNESCO. I wish her continued success and good health  in her future endeavours.
26.2 UNESCO is at a critical juncture in its history. Given the fact that UNESCO is facing institutional and financial  difficulties, it is a time of crisis. However, on the other side of the coin, this could be an opportunity to make UNESCO a  stronger Organization. As Sir Winston Churchill said, “A pessimist sees the difficulty in every opportunity; an optimist  sees the opportunity in every difficulty.” From the perspective of an optimist, I am convinced that our decisions on  document 39 C/5, and the efforts of our new Director-General will provide us with new momentum to take a leap forward.  This should be matched by corresponding efforts from Member States. Paying our assessed contributions in full and on  time is an obligation incumbent on Member States. For UNESCO to remain an attractive partner to the world, it should  make every effort to enhance its transparency, efficiency, effectiveness and accountability.
26.3 The Republic of Korea has always been a steadfast partner and will continue to support UNESCO. Our  voluntary contributions to UNESCO have increased fivefold during the last ten years. In 2016, we made a voluntary
266  contribution of $12 million. Together with our financial contribution, we have also provided the secondment of experts to  UNESCO Headquarters and field offices.
26.4 Madam President, in the area of education, we will continue to support UNESCO’s core programmes through  the Better Life for Girls and Better Education for Africa’s Rise (BEAR) projects, which have now been extended to ten  African countries. We also fully endorse and recognize the important role of SDG target 4.7, regarding education for  sustainable development (ESD) and global citizenship, in preventing violent extremism through peace education. Today,  with humanitarian crises and cases of violent extremism on the rise, the role of education in promoting peace, human  rights and intercultural dialogue is clearly more relevant than ever. In this context, the World Humanities Forum was  jointly initiated by the Republic of Korea and UNESCO in 2011, and ever since, the Forum has taken place biennially. On  the basis of their success, the fifth World Humanities Forum will be held in Busan next year on the theme “The Human  Image in a Changing World”.
26.5 Science is key to building a foundation for sustainable development. In this regard, the established scientific  programmes such as the International Hydrological Programme (IHP), the Programme on Man and the Biosphere (MAB)  and the UNESCO Global Geoparks should be fully optimized as platforms for realizing the SDGs. The Republic of Korea  also supports UNESCO’s work in ocean science, including its proposal for an international decade of ocean science for  sustainable development. We are pleased to join its endeavours through a newly launched project to address climate  change by supporting water security for developing countries.
26.6 Madam President, the Republic of Korea has contributed to the Memory of the World (MoW) Programme in  many ways, including by awarding the UNESCO/Jikji Memory of the World Prize and establishing the International  Centre for Documentary Heritage. We will continue to support and play a leading role in enhancing global awareness of  the significance of the preservation and accessibility of documentary heritage. The importance of heritage has been  underlined from generation to generation. Whether it is tangible, intangible or documentary heritage, we have a noble  responsibility to preserve our heritage and pass it on to future generations. In this respect, the adoption of United Nations  Security Council resolution 2347 (2017) is a meaningful decision for the protection and security of our common heritage  against threats of destruction and trafficking. As a co-sponsor of this historic resolution, the Republic of Korea pledges its  support for UNESCO’s Strategy for the reinforcement of UNESCO’s action for the protection of culture and the promotion  of cultural pluralism in the event of armed conflict.
26.7 Lastly, we would like to inform you that the forthcoming twelfth session of the Intangible Heritage Committee will  be held from 4 to 9 December this year in Jeju Island. Jeju Island is well known as a UNESCO multi-internationally  designated site. I hope every State Party will have a chance to discover why it has been designated so. We look forward  to your participation and support in making this event a great success. Thank you very much.
27. La Présidente :    Thank you Your Excellency. Et maintenant je voudrais donner la parole à S. E. M. Matthew Lodge, Délégué  permanent du Royaume-Uni de Grande-Bretagne et d’Irlande du Nord auprès de l’UNESCO.
28.1 Mr Lodge (United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland):   Madam President, Madam Director-General, Ministers, distinguished delegates, Excellencies, ladies and  gentlemen, I am pleased to be able to offer the following statement on behalf of the Government of the United Kingdom  of Great Britain and Northern Ireland to this 2017 UNESCO General Conference as Ambassador and Permanent  Delegate, and to reaffirm the United Kingdom’s commitment to our work here.
28.2 The United Kingdom’s ongoing commitment to UNESCO has strong foundations. As a founding Member of this  Organization – and the mother country of UNESCO’s first Director-General – the United Kingdom has a particular  interest in, and responsibility for, UNESCO’s important work. As a permanent member of the United Nations Security  Council, and a significant actor on the world stage, we want to see UNESCO delivering on its mandate and making a  positive difference to the lives of people across the globe.
28.3 As others have observed, Madam President, the world is facing challenging times. Even though other institutions  in the United Nations family may be tackling the immediate challenges of hunger, poverty and conflict, we all here well  understand the importance of UNESCO’s work on education, science and the protection and promotion of our global  cultural heritage. And we must not overlook the role UNESCO is able to play regarding freedom of expression and the  protection of journalists. In all these areas, however, we must focus on results – on ensuring that we are making the best  use of the resources at our disposal to guarantee the most effective delivery of our projects and programmes, and to  deliver the greatest impact where it matters – on the ground, in communities, in people’s lives. In short, we need to make  a difference. This matters, Madam President, not simply for the beneficiaries of UNESCO’s efforts, but also for the  sustainability of those efforts and the responsibility that our governments have to our citizens, to those whose taxes and  contributions provide the funding for UNESCO to operate.
28.4 We welcome the wider call for reform of the United Nations Secretary-General. And we are clear that at  UNESCO – the Secretariat and the Member States – we must do our part. We must demonstrate greater accountability  and transparency. We must ensure improved efficiency. We must manage risk more effectively. And we must collectively  agree how to prioritize the resources we have so that we can work best to deliver UNESCO’s mandate. Recognizing this  collective effort, the United Kingdom stands ready to play its part. We are privileged and pleased to be on the Executive  Board and will remain active and constructively engaged, including in supporting the new Director-General during the  crucial early months of her tenure and beyond. We welcome the confidence of fellow electoral Group I members and look  forward to chairing Group I in 2018, and I will endeavour personally to maintain the high standards set by my Portuguese  colleague.
28.5 A word, Madam President, about the National Commissions. They do an invaluable job. They do it well. They  deserve our respect and our gratitude. I am delighted that the United Kingdom National Commission for UNESCO  continues to play such a constructive part in UNESCO’s work. The Commission serves as the hub for the United  Kingdom’s UNESCO designations, works with world-class volunteer experts and provides policy advice, contributing  nationally, internationally and here at UNESCO. Part of that strength is the United Kingdom’s 160-plus UNESCO  designations, joined this year by the United Kingdom’s 31st world heritage site, the English Lake District, the birthplace of  the modern conservation movement.
28.6 Madam President, others may also be interested to hear about a study the United Kingdom National  Commission for UNESCO conducted to assess the wider value of UNESCO to the United Kingdom. UNESCO  designations annually contribute over $130 million of financial benefits to the United Kingdom. This affiliation helps create  many jobs and opportunities, often in areas that are facing economic challenges. And, of course, the benefits are not just  financial: the United Kingdom National Commission’s research shows the power of the UNESCO brand for the United  Kingdom’s UNESCO sites to access new programmes, partnership and funding opportunities, and engage and bring  local communities together.
28.7 Madam President, in conclusion, I would like to thank Ms Irina Bokova for all she has done during her tenure as  Director-General, and acknowledge the work of the Secretariat staff. We are grateful for all they have done. Indulge me  for one moment if I may, in humble recognition of the fact that this is my first address to the General Conference,  conclude by recalling some of the key words of the Preamble to the UNESCO Constitution adopted in London on 16  November 1945, almost 72 years ago. In words attributed to the British Prime Minister Clement Attlee, “since wars begin  in the minds of men, it is in the minds of men that the defenses of peace must be constructed”. There was a particular  context to those words at the time. Although today’s context is different, those words are no less pertinent. It is indeed in  the minds of men and women and children that the defenses of peace must be constructed.
28.8 The United Kingdom stands ready to work with the new Director-General and her team in order to help  UNESCO tackle the challenges it faces. They are many and it will not always be easy. But we must remain focused on  those we wish to support through UNESCO’s mandate. There is important work to do. And we are ready to work with  others in order to make it happen. Thank you.
29. La Présidente :    Merci Excellence. Et maintenant je voudrais donner la parole à S. E. Mgr Francesco Follo, Observateur  permanent du Saint-Siège auprès de l’UNESCO.
30.1 Mgr. Follo (Saint-Siège) :   Madame la Présidente, j’ai l’honneur de vous exprimer les félicitations du Saint-Siège pour votre élection à la  Présidence de la 39e session de la Conférence générale, et de vous transmettre, comme à toutes les délégations, les  salutations les plus cordiales de S. S. le Pape François. Le Saint-Père invoque sur chacun de nous les bénédictions de  Dieu Tout-Puissant, pour bien bâtir la justice, la paix dans les esprits des hommes et des femmes par l’éducation, la  culture et les sciences, soutenus par la conviction que c’est seulement avec la paix qu’il y a la possibilité d’un avenir plus  prospère pour tous.
30.2 À cet égard, le Saint-Siège félicite l’UNESCO pour ses orientations et le budget du 39 C/5, et propose des  modestes réflexions sur trois thèmes, qui sont les suivants. Le premier : le développement personnel à partir de  l’alphabétisation. Lire et écrire est, pour un très grand nombre de personnes, un luxe. À cet égard, l’UNESCO a vocation  à donner et à transmettre l’instruction et l’éducation qui ne sont pas un surplus, mais un dû. Deuxième réflexion :  l’éducation, la culture et la foi sont une réponse positive au terrorisme. Le terrorisme ne sera pas vaincu par la violence,  mais par un retour aux racines vitales de l’éducation, de la culture et de la foi. Telle est l’espérance qui nous anime. Et  cette espérance n’est pas un vœu pieux : il y a des artisans de paix, et les sociétés petites et grandes, de la famille à la  nation, doivent apprendre à en susciter de nouveaux. Il suffit d’y croire, et de beaucoup travailler. La troisième réflexion,  c’est le patrimoine culturel mondial et l’éducation. Nous sommes héritiers de trésors culturels, matériels et immatériels,  que nous avons à préserver et sur lesquels nous avons à veiller. Ils ne sont pas seulement des témoins du passé, mais  encore des sources de joie pour le présent et pour l’avenir. Ils sont à transmettre à nos enfants. C’est des générations à  venir que ces trésors attendent d’être connus. Et c’est aussi à ceux qui viennent chez nous, et que nous devons aider à  se sentir chez nous comme une seconde patrie, que nous devons les présenter comme appartenant aussi à leur  patrimoine. La Cité du Vatican, par exemple, est patrimoine de l’humanité et non pas des seuls catholiques. Homère et  Eschyle sont un patrimoine de l’humanité et non celui seul des grecs. À nous d’être assez intelligents et volontaires pour  que tout émigré arrivé chez nous, en plus de trouver du pain et la paix, y trouve une nourriture intellectuelle et spirituelle  préparée par d’autres que lui, mais préparée aussi pour lui.
30.3 « Intellectuel » et « spirituel », les deux sont liés. L’éducation a pour premier but d’enraciner l’enfant ou le jeune  dans sa terre natale, dans sa cité et dans toutes les réalités bonnes qu’elle a suscitées au long de son histoire. Elle a  une seconde fin : rendre l’homme capable d’habiter d’autres cités que celle où il est né, et souvent enrichir l’homme de  biens que sa cité natale ne pouvait pas lui donner. Et ici, les traditions spirituelles ou religieuses, pour peu qu’elles  sachent être habitables par tout homme, ont une mission à remplir. Au minimum, bien sûr, elles doivent se savoir mettre  au service de tout homme : celui qui se présente comme étranger à telle ou telle tradition, celui donc qui vient d’un  ailleurs spirituel et religieux, a droit à une bienveillance et à une sollicitude sans restriction de la part de ceux qui  appartiennent à ces traditions. Le Pape Paul VI disait que l’Église catholique est « experte en humanité ». Bien sûr, le  christianisme n’est pas le seul à posséder cette compétence. À toutes les traditions spirituelles, donc, de puiser dans ce  qu’elles ont de meilleur pour collaborer à cette culture de paix sans laquelle l’homme ne peut parvenir, dans l’histoire, à  sa pleine stature intellectuelle, morale et, donc spirituelle. Le Saint-Siège appuie les grands programmes II et III qui
268  soutiennent le développement durable et inclusif, l’écologie, y compris le programme de l’hydrologie et le nouveau  programme des océans, pour lutter contre les violations des droits de l’homme, les inégalités, et la pauvreté, tendant à  réaliser les Objectifs du développement durable (ODD).
30.4 Le Pape François a récemment dit que « le concept de personne aide à poursuivre un développement  pleinement humain ». Parce que la « personne » dit toujours relation et non pas individualisme, affirme inclusion et non  pas exclusion, dignité unique et inviolable et non pas exploitation, liberté et non pas contrainte. L’Église se propose cette  sagesse qu’elle partage avec les philosophies et les religions actuelles, mais bien sûr, nous sommes là pour partager  ces idéaux avec tous. Merci de votre écoute.
31. La Présidente :    Merci Monseigneur. Mesdames et Messieurs, nous allons maintenant passer aux déclarations des organisations  intergouvernementales. Je voudrais rappeler aux délégués que leurs déclarations à la Conférence générale seront  limitées à trois minutes. Et maintenant je donne la parole à S. E. M. Christian Leffler, Secrétaire général adjoint du  Service européen d’action extérieure de l’Union européenne.
32.1 Mr Leffler (European Union):   Madam President of the General Conference, Mr Chairperson of the Executive Board, Madam Director-General,  distinguished colleagues. I have the honour to speak on behalf of the European Union and the candidate countries  Turkey, Montenegro, Serbia and Albania.
32.2 Madam President, global challenges require multilateral efforts. Global governance in the twenty-first century is  one of the strategic priorities that the European Union has defined in its Global Strategy for Foreign and Security Policy.  Effective multilateralism, with a strong United Nations at its core, lies at the heart of our interests and commitment. The  European Union’s commitment to the United Nations translates into an aspiration to transform, rather than simply  preserve, the existing system. We support the United Nations Secretary-General in his vision for the United Nations and  its reform.
32.3 Education, culture, support for freedom of expression, youth empowerment and intercultural dialogue are crucial  soft diplomacy tools to achieve peace and sustainable development. We therefore see UNESCO as a pillar of the  multilateral system. Our support to UNESCO will not falter. The European Union remains a close partner through political  support for its objectives, as well as support to make them a reality. The European Union Member States continue to be  collectively the largest contributors to the regular budget of UNESCO, and the European Union and its Member States  continue to be its largest voluntary donors.
32.4 We congratulate Ms Audrey Azoulay on her nomination by the Executive Board and look forward to the  nomination of the next Director-General of UNESCO by the General Conference later this week. We affirm our readiness  to work closely with the next Director General to help focus the mission of UNESCO on areas where it has unique  competence and can provide added value, to further enhance the confidence of the membership in the Organization  through dialogue and outreach, as well as to continue reforms for a more modern and accountable Organization. As part  of the broader work on United Nations reform, we expect UNESCO to work in cohesion with the United Nations family in  pursuit of the goals on today’s multilateral agenda.  (The speaker continues in French)
32.5 Madame la Présidente, l’éducation figure toujours parmi les priorités de l’Union européenne, avec un soutien à  des politiques efficaces en matière d’éducation, de formation professionnelle, de perfectionnement des compétences et  d’accès aux technologies numériques. Nous apprécions le rôle actif joué par l’UNESCO dans la mise en œuvre de  l’Objectif de développement durable numéro 4. L’Union européenne poursuit la mise en œuvre de sa stratégie en  matière de relations culturelles avec ses pays partenaires, fondée sur le nouveau paradigme de la coopération et du  partenariat. De plus, la culture ouvre de nouvelles voies, facilite la compréhension mutuelle et concourt à la prévention  de la radicalisation. Nous visons le renforcement d’un espace commun où les acteurs culturels puissent se rencontrer et  produire ensemble une culture de dialogue.
32.6 Le patrimoine culturel mondial requiert également une protection dans le cadre de nos politiques étrangères. Le  patrimoine culturel peut contribuer à la paix, à la sécurité et à la réconciliation, et à renforcer la résilience d’un pays, ainsi  qu’à la croissance économique. L’Union européenne poursuivra son étroite collaboration avec l’UNESCO et tous les  partenaires clés afin de protéger le patrimoine culturel, avec la diversité culturelle, également en cas de conflit. En 2018,  l’Union européenne célèbrera l’Année européenne du patrimoine, et nous comptons sur les compétences et le savoir- faire de l’UNESCO pour approfondir notre coopération déjà très intense dans ce domaine.
32.7 En qualité de Partie à la Convention de l’UNESCO de 2005, l’Union européenne promeut activement la diversité  des expressions culturelles dans nos politiques internes, notamment à travers les récentes propositions de réforme du  droit d’auteur pour l’environnement numérique, dans nos accords commerciaux, économiques et aussi dans les  politiques avec les pays tiers et dans notre politique de coopération avec les pays en développement.  (L’orateur poursuit en anglais)
32.8 We attach the highest priority to promoting and protecting freedom of opinion and expression, free, diverse and  independent media and the safety of journalists and other media actors, including those who use new media to reach a  mass audience. The European Union condemns any acts of violence, intimidation or harassment against journalists and  other media actors, and supports projects on media freedom, including providing targeted protection through human  rights defender programmes. Freedom of expression is not an end in itself. It is a foundation for democracy,  transparency, accountability, resilience and inclusive development, and finally, for peace and stability. The prevention
269  and countering of violent extremism is a core objective of the European Union’s external counterterrorism efforts, and we  commend the work of UNESCO in this field.
32.9 The European Union supports young people’s transition to adulthood, including access to life skills, integration in  the labour market, social inclusion and participation in civil and social life, as part of a strategy based on constant  dialogue with the youth sector. This strategy is backed by a number of important funding schemes, including in relation to  our neighbours and countries in the rest of the world. Youth is a priority for the European Union’s external action in the  framework of implementing the 2030 Agenda, as well as in conflict prevention and sustaining peace. Our approach is  focused on the promotion of capacity building and youth initiatives in the area of peace building. We will pursue this  through initiatives ranging from support for the implementation of United Nations Security Council resolution 2250 on  youth, peace and security and the fifth African Union-European Union Summit this November on “Investing in Youth for a  Sustainable Future”, to the European Union High Representative/Vice-President’s initiative to promote exchanges about  youth agency between the European Union and its southern neighbourhood.
32.10 In conclusion, Madam President, let me put our work within UNESCO in the broader perspective, that of the
2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development. The Agenda should guide all United Nations entities including UNESCO in  prioritizing their efforts in an integrated manner. The recently adopted European Global Strategy and the European  Consensus on Development provide European Union institutions and Member States with a common framework to  support these efforts working together with UNESCO and its Member States. Thank you very much.
(34.1) Mr Altwaijri (Islamic Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization – ISESCO) (translation from the Arabic):   Madam President of the General Conference, Mr Chairperson of the Executive Board, Madam Director-General, I am  pleased to address you on behalf of ISESCO, whose membership includes 54 UNESCO Member States. I would like to extend  my thanks and appreciation to Ms Irina Bokova, Director-General of UNESCO, for her fruitful cooperation with ISESCO  throughout her tenure at the helm of this international Organization, and to commend UNESCO’s significant achievements. I  congratulate Ms Audrey Azoulay on her election as future Director-General of the Organization and wish her every success in  her new task.
(34.2) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the building of world peace is based on the rules of education, with profound  implications and crosscutting dimensions. As long as peace is built in minds, minds are built with quality education, beneficial  education. Therefore, UNESCO has great responsibilities, especially in this critical period in the world, where tensions are  rising and armed conflicts and political crises are being exacerbated. Unfortunately, the education conditions in the developing  world are neither satisfactory nor stable. In today’s world, there are more than 50 million refugees, of whom a quarter are
270  children. These include refugees from some countries of the Muslim world. If we are to monitor these situations and make  continuous efforts within the scope of our mandate to allow them to learn and to overcome this crisis, greater international  cooperation is required. Our world is currently going through a difficult phase. It is in need of a humanitarian movement that  works to save present and future generations from the dangers of ignorance, extremism, terrorism, fanaticism, racism and  aggression, and to work hard to establish security and peace and to provide equal opportunities for education for all and to  develop protection of cultural heritage.
(34.3) UNESCO, which is the cultural conscience of the world, has great responsibilities and therefore needs the support of  all Member States. ISESCO, UNESCO’s faithful partner, will remain committed to fulfilling the tasks entrusted to it in its  Charter, seeking to strengthen cooperation and expand its scope to achieve common humanitarian objectives. This  cooperation has led to remarkable achievements over the last ten years, benefitting the Member States of the two  organizations, especially the 57 States of the Organisation of Islamic Cooperation (OIC). ISESCO, as the cultural conscience  of the Islamic world, needs the cooperation of all the countries of the world in order to combat all the causes of racism,  terrorism and extremism. I pray to God to spread His mercy so that the world may enjoy justice and peace. I congratulate the  President of the General Conference on her election; her country is one of ancient civilization and development, an active  international partner in the fight against terrorism and extremism and the achievement of dialogue and coexistence among  peoples and cultures. Thank you, Madam President.   :الرئيسة ٣٥  شكراً، املتكلم التايل هو الدكتور سعود هالل احلريب، املدير العام للمنظمة العربية للرتبية والثقافة والعلوم.
(36.1) Mr Al-Harbi (Arab League Educational, Cultural and Scientific Organization – ALECSO) (translation from the Arabic):   In the name of God, praise be to God, and may praise and peace be upon God’s messenger. Madam President of the  General Conference, Mr Chairperson of the Executive Board, Madam Director-General of UNESCO, ladies and gentlemen,  peace and the mercy and blessings of God be upon you. At the outset, I would like to congratulate Ms Zohour Alaoui on her  election as President of the General Conference and Ms Audrey Azoulay on her election as Director-General. I also extend my  sincere thanks and appreciation to Ms Irina Bokova for her efforts over the past years.
(36.2) Ladies and gentlemen, it may be our destiny to hold this Conference under very difficult circumstances, which has  made most of the world’s countries suffer and has brought many challenges to humanity as a result of the serious human and  material damages and the associated movements of extremism, radicalism, terrorism and gross violations of human rights,  thus affecting or even stopping development plans in some countries. Furthermore, all of you are aware of the suffering of the  Palestinian people whose land has been usurped, dignity has been robbed and rights have been violated; indeed, this has
271  reached the extent of becoming a matter of the right to life, and it is being done in a systematic manner, aimed at wiping out  Palestinian Arab identity by destroying heritage and halting education measures.
(36.3) Ladies and gentlemen, if the Palestinian wound that has been bleeding for decades causes our hearts to bleed, there  are also other Arab wounds today in more than one Arab country, for objective and subjective reasons, which have made  these countries lag behind in the fields of education and culture. This cruelty and pain is exacerbated when many children are  denied the right to education.
(36.4) Ladies and gentlemen, faced with this difficult and tragic situation in our Arab countries, our organizations are  endeavouring to address the painful situation in the fields of education and culture. We have many initiatives and activities that  we seek to achieve, as reflected in our initiative on the right to education for children in situations of armed conflict. In addition,  we are presently working to develop plans to prepare for the end of the problems experienced by the Arab countries.
(36.5) Ladies and gentlemen, the efforts we have made and will make in the coming days require participatory action,  especially with your time-honoured Organization. Therefore, we look forward to continued and fruitful cooperation and  communication with UNESCO and other relevant organizations in order to address the suffering of the countries of the world in  general and the Arab region in particular.
(36.6) Ladies and gentlemen, Arabic has an important and influential role in human civilization, whether it is written, produced  or translated from the treasures of world literature and culture; therefore, we look forward with great interest to the translations  of documents and the records of meetings and symposia.
(36.7) Ladies and gentlemen, it is our hope and wish that our meeting today will establish a new path to attaining the  Sustainable Development Goals, achieving security, peace and respect for human rights, and the development and progress  of nations, and that all the associated indicators be positive at our future meetings, God willing. Peace and the mercy and  blessings of God be upon you.   :الرئيسة ٣٧  شكراً جزيًال، واآلن أحيل الكلمة إىل معايل الدكتور يوسف العثيمني، األمني العام ملنظمة التعاون اإلسالمي.
(38.1) Mr Al-Othaimeen (Organization of Islamic Cooperation – OIC) (translation from the Arabic):   Madam President of the General Conference, Madam Director-General, ladies and gentlemen, the Organization of  Islamic Cooperation attaches great importance to its cooperation with UNESCO and we hope this will continue to strengthen in  the future. UNESCO’s role in today’s world is more important than ever, especially in the areas of peace-building, protection of  cultural heritage in conflict areas, access to quality education, empowerment of girls and women and intercultural dialogue.  Allow me to take this opportunity to congratulate Ms Audrey Azoulay on her election to the post of Director-General of  UNESCO in the hope that this will contribute to the further development of bilateral cooperation between OIC and UNESCO,  particularly through the specialized arm of ISESCO, as well as the 57 Member States of the Organization of Islamic  Cooperation.
(38.2) One of the main concerns of the Organization of Islamic Cooperation is to address the phenomenon of terrorism and  extremism as well as to counter religious and sectarian radicalism. OIC condemns terrorism in all its forms and fully agrees  with civilized nations that terrorism has no religion, nationality, colour or creed. It is a phenomenon that must be confronted  wherever it is found and whatever its source. In this regard, OIC launched the project Sawt Al-Hikma (The Voice of Wisdom),  which seeks to confront the discourse of extremism and propagate images of moderation and tolerance, as well as to educate
272  young people about the danger of joining terrorist groups and guide them towards action that serves their countries and the  common good. OIC has also adopted its ten-year programme of work until 2025 to meet the challenges of the times and seek  to achieve its vision of increasing the role of the Organization in promoting security and peace.
(38.3) Furthermore, the Organisation of Islamic Cooperation attaches great importance to science and technology, holding  the first OIC Science and Technology Summit in Kazakhstan and adopting the OIC STI Agenda 2026.
(38.4) The OIC also strongly condemns the continued efforts of the Israeli occupation policy in East Jerusalem to change its  historical Arab and Islamic identity and its demographic composition. We therefore hope that UNESCO will take appropriate  action within the framework of its responsibilities to protect and preserve the historical and cultural heritage of the State of  Palestine. We once again stress the urgent need to implement all UNESCO resolutions. Yes to education, yes to culture, yes  to technology to enable future human happiness. Peace and the mercy and blessings of God be upon you.   :الرئيسة ٣٩  اخلليج. لدول العريب الرتبية شكراً جزيًال، أدعو اآلن الدكتور علي القرين، املدير العام ملكتب
(40.1) Mr Ali Alkarni (Arab Bureau of Education for the Gulf States – ABEGS) (translation from the Arabic):   In the name of God the Merciful, the Compassionate. Madam President of the General Conference Ms Zohour Alaoui,  Mr Chairperson of the Executive Board, Madam Director-General of UNESCO Ms Irina Bokova, Your Excellencies the Heads  of Delegations, Excellencies and Heads of participating organizations, peace and the mercy and blessings of God be upon  you. I would like to begin by greeting this honourable audience, and I bless every sincere effort that has been made to improve  education, improve its tools and improve its output, which was inspired by the will and determination of those who are zealous  to establish generations in the realm of culture. Allow me to convey to you the greetings of all educators in the Member States  of the Arab Bureau of Education for the Gulf States.
(40.2) UNESCO is a model for human performance, for improving and enhancing human awareness and a noble approach  to interculturalization based on decades of experience, expertise and striving in the fields of culture and knowledge. We are  pleased at the Arab Bureau of Education for the Gulf States to share with UNESCO this pursuit dedicated to harmony, which  emphasizes the principles of dialogue and the true value of humankind. To ensure this participation, the Arab Bureau of  Education for the Gulf States implements several joint programmes with UNESCO and is a member of the SDG-Education
2030 Steering Committee. It is keen to participate in all the activities of the Committee and to support UNESCO’s efforts  towards Education 2030 through its active presence in the Education 2030 Arab Regional Support Group and its leadership of  the support group in the Arab States of the Gulf. The Bureau harnesses all its material resources and expertise to support  education programmes and national committees in planning, monitoring and follow-up. It also issues periodic reports to the  Ministers of Education of Arab States and regional organizations on the activities and programmes of the Steering Committee.
(40.3) The Arab Bureau of Education for the Gulf States strongly supports the direction of Her Excellency the Director  General, the plan of action for the Education Sector and the activities of the institutions and centres for the 2018-2020 period.
273  The Bureau reaffirms the participatory framework of action with the UNESCO offices, as well as the close relationship with the  UNESCO Institute for Statistics (UIS), the International Bureau of Education (IBE), and UNESCO category 2 centres and  institutes in the Arab region.
(40.4) In conclusion, I would like to extend my heartfelt thanks and appreciation to Her Excellency Director-General Irina  Bokova, for her pioneering role in structuring and enriching the Organization and for her growing relationship with UNESCO  during her auspicious mandates. We look forward to continued cooperation and partnership with the Organization and its new  Director-General, to further educational values and meet the highest goals. May God support you on the pathways of science,  culture and knowledge. Peace and the mercy and blessings of God be upon you.
41. La Présidente :    Shoukran. Mesdames et Messieurs, avant de donner la parole aux organisations non gouvernementales, je  voudrais appeler pour sa déclaration nationale S. E. M. Dermot Nolan, Ambassadeur, Délégué permanent de l’Irlande  auprès de l’UNESCO. Excellence, vous avez six minutes.
42.1 M. Nolan (Irlande) :  Madame la Présidente, je voudrais tout d’abord vous féliciter pour votre élection. Je saisis aussi l’occasion de  féliciter Mme Azoulay pour sa nomination au poste de Directeur général par la 202e session du Conseil exécutif.  L’Irlande est certaine de travailler avec vous deux afin de répondre aux défis auxquels l’UNESCO doit faire face. Je  voudrais aussi remercier Irina Bokova pour son travail et achèvements durant les huit dernières années.   (L’orateur poursuit en anglais)
42.2 Madam President, Madam Director-General, Ministers, Ambassadors, ladies and gentlemen. They were eight  very hard years and Director-General Bokova fulfilled her mission with dignity and purpose. This current moment brings  very considerable challenges for UNESCO. Multilateralism itself is threatened and questioned on many fronts. The  validity of multilateralism as an approach to solving common problems is called into doubt. Confidence in the ability of  multilateral bodies to act coherently to solve common challenges is at a low ebb. But a moment of danger and challenge  can be used as an opportunity to turn things around. UNESCO can resolve to rejuvenate itself and affirm the value of  multilateralism. UNESCO must now focus on its core mission, the value of education in all its dimensions and its role in  ending poverty and opening up a life of opportunity and dignity for all human beings, the imperative of setting our  common planet on the way to a sustainable future, the value of humanity’s cultural heritage and its potential to unite us  rather than divide us if we endeavour to preserve cultural heritage in a tolerant and mutually respectful manner, and  above all, the value of freedom of expression, as the right to speak the truth is needed as never before.
42.3 In recent years, UNESCO has not had unlimited resources, and nor will it have in the near future. So UNESCO  must now concentrate on what it does best and where it can make the greatest impact. UNESCO should engage with  critics and their arguments in a constructive manner, showing a willingness to listen and a willingness to learn, but also a  confidence in its values and a commitment to fulfilling its mission. If, over the next few years, UNESCO can show  progress in its key objectives, it can emerge strengthened and emboldened. Ireland will be a committed and constructive  partner to UNESCO in its endeavours. Since we gained our independence some 100 years ago, Ireland has appreciated  and supported multilateralism. We will continue to do so and we will sustain the values of multilateralism in UNESCO.
42.4 Ireland particularly appreciates UNESCO’s active role in implementing Sustainable Development Goal (SDG) 4  and its associated targets as we work towards the implementation of the 2030 Agenda across all United Nations entities.  Improving access to quality education is a core priority of Ireland’s international development cooperation programme,  and in particular, the provision of education for girls. Ireland itself greatly values the line in UNESCO’s Constitution that  refers to the building of peace in the minds of men and women. Education is central to the building of that peace. As our  President Michael D. Higgins stated in his address to UNESCO in 2013, “True peace requires a form of consciousness  that not only eschews all forms of violence, but which also envisages the rich fruits of peaceful life together in all its  utopian diversity”.
42.5  Ireland’s own education policy draws much inspiration from the work of UNESCO. We will soon hold our third  National Forum on Education for Sustainable Development (ESD). This annual meeting is an opportunity to evaluate  progress made in line with the National Strategy on ESD. This strategy was developed by our Department of Education  and Skills and was supported by UNESCO’s work to promote its ideals through youth education and training  programmes in Ireland.
42.6  Only two months ago, Ireland’s second city, Cork, was selected as the host of the third International Conference  on Learning Cities. Cork city is one of the three learning cities in Europe that enjoy membership of a network of learning  cities that have been recognized for the excellence of their education and learning services. Cork now joins two other  Irish cities that are members of a similarly rich international network. Dublin and Galway are UNESCO’s Creative Cities  of Literature and Film respectively. These designations have granted both cities membership of the UNESCO Creative  Cities Network. The cities in this network value creativity and its role as an economic driver in city plans for sustainable  development.
42.7 In recent years, we have seen all too many attacks upon the common cultural heritage of humanity. Preserving  humankind’s heritage from destruction is a key objective for UNESCO and we applaud the work done in the most difficult  of circumstances. We also commend UNESCO’s efforts to develop culture and heritage as a unifying force. There is  much that UNESCO can do to assuage what are often intractable political disputes by emphasizing the mutual benefits  of working together to preserve our common cultural heritage. Ireland welcomes the recent recommendation of the  International Advisory Committee of the Memory of the World Programme (IAC) to inscribe the archive collections of the  Irish folklore collection on the Memory of the World Register. The Irish Folklore Commission Collection will now join the  Book of Kells, our most precious literary treasure, on the Memory of the World Register.
42.8 UNESCO is a key partner for Ireland in guiding the protection and promotion of the world heritage sites at  international and national levels. To conclude, I wish to commend UNESCO for its work and look forward to future  cooperation in building a sustainable world. Let us now focus on rebuilding and re-energizing UNESCO by directing all  our energies at delivering UNESCO’s core objectives. If we do, we can legitimately expect a General Conference in 2019  that can look back on two years of solid achievement. Merci beaucoup. Thank you very much.
43. La Présidente :    Merci beaucoup. Mesdames et Messieurs, donc, nous allons passer aux déclarations des organisations non  gouvernementales. Il y aura 10 interventions de trois minutes. Et donc j’appelle M. Dhirendra Bhatnagar, qui est le  Président de la Fédération mondiale des associations, centres et clubs de l’UNESCO. Je vous en prie.
44.1 Mr Bhatnagar (World Federation of UNESCO Clubs, Centres and Associations – WFUCA):   Honourable Madam President of the General Conference, Honourable Madam Director-General,  Mr Chairperson of the Executive Board, dignitaries, Excellencies, distinguished delegates, ladies and gentlemen. As  President of the World Federation of UNESCO Clubs, Centres and Associations (WFUCA), it is with great pleasure and  pride that I share with this august gathering the fact that the UNESCO Clubs movement has completed 70 years of its  existence, rendering services to promote the ideals of UNESCO among the people through the network of UNESCO  clubs, centres and associations spread across about 100 countries in all continents of the world.
44.2 The 70th anniversary celebrations of the UNESCO Clubs movement were held in Sendai, Japan, the birthplace  of the first UNESCO association, and were attended by the leaders of UNESCO Clubs and Associations from various  countries and the representatives of about 200 UNESCO Associations from all over Japan. Altogether, nearly 1,000  people who love UNESCO took part in this commemoration event.
44.3 The UNESCO Clubs movement is a people’s movement involving representatives of all sections of society,  particularly young women and men, voluntarily rendering services in advancing UNESCO’s aims and objectives. As non- governmental organizations (NGOs), under the guidance and support of the National Commissions in their respective  countries, UNESCO Clubs and Associations are working at the grass-roots level to promote international understanding,  communal harmony, human rights, unity in diversity, a culture of peace and education for sustainable development  (ESD).
44.4 As a majority of the world’s population consists of young people, we need to provide platforms from whence they  can make their voices heard, discuss world problems and find solutions with their active participation. UNESCO Clubs in  schools, colleges and educational institutions provide opportunities to discuss topics of national and international interest  observe international days marked by the United Nations and enhance knowledge about world affairs. Faster means of  communication, advanced technologies and the Internet have shrunk the world and brought people closer. Young people  are learning fast and adapting to new technologies. Through Skype and video conferencing tools, they can establish  closer links, exchange ideas and learn about each other’s way of life, creating a network of peace activists. We solicit the  support of the National Commissions for UNESCO in different countries to promote UNESCO Clubs in educational  institutions.
44.5 In conclusion, I would reiterate that the UNESCO Clubs movement has grown and expanded with the support of  UNESCO. We are committed to strengthening the Organization by supporting its programmes and activities and working  within the guiding principles of UNESCO. Thank you very much for providing me with the opportunity to speak before this  distinguished gathering. Thank you.
45. La Présidente :    Thank you. Maintenant j’appelle Vénérable Wu Shin, Représentant de la Fédération mondiale des bouddhistes.
(46.1) Mr Wu (World Fellowship of Buddhists) (translation from the Chinese):   Reviving religious education to promote world peace. Madam President of the General Conference, Madam Director- General, Mr Chairperson of the Executive Board, Excellencies, ladies and gentlemen, please allow me to extend to you my  warmest greetings.
(46.2) On behalf of the World Fellowship of Buddhists and the Association of Master Chin Kung’s Friends at UNESCO, we  would like to congratulate Ms Zohour Alaoui on her election as President of the General Conference. We would like to thank  Mr Stanley Mutumba Simataa for his able leadership over the past two years and Ms Irina Bokova for her unremitting efforts to  promote world peace during the last eight years. We would also like to congratulate Ms Audrey Azoulay on her election to the  position of Director-General by the Executive Board and offer her our support.
(46.3) UNESCO’s main mission is to promote world peace. The goal of world peace would be unachievable without love.  Love is at the core of all religions. The central doctrine of all religions focuses on noble, selfless love. The founders of all  religions were great educators. Their doctrines, without exception, emphasize the communication of ethics, morality, causality,  and men of virtue. The World Fellowship of Buddhists has always emphasized the fact that Buddhism is a form of education,  through which Buddha the enlightened man teaches all mortal beings how to leave suffering behind for happiness. As Master  Chin Kung has concluded, “religion provides one with a main source of education, important teachings and enlightenment  through worship.” Religious education is an indispensable form of basic education for human beings. In today’s world, religion  should return to the basics and assume its sacred mission of communication and education. It should guide people away from  vicious competitions, conflicts and wars and towards the recovery of benevolence, and contribute to the well-being of humanity.
(46.4) Ever since we organized the event at UNESCO to commemorate the birth of Buddha in 2006, we have collaborated  with various permanent delegations to co-host peace conferences in this magnificent hall. At these conferences, we made  presentations on activities in, and results from, interfaith dialogue and cultural integration in Singapore and Malaysia, and in  particular the example of the event “Model City of Peace and Harmony” in Toowoomba, Australia. We have also presented  related reports from those meetings for your reference.
(46.5) Under the leadership of Master Chin Kung, practitioners from 10 major religions chose 360 excerpts from their  respective sacred scriptures that are representative of their fundamental doctrines and edited them into an anthology entitled  “Classical Scriptures 360”, available to you as of now. We hope this text may help you to understand the doctrines of different  religions, for as we have come to learn, the communication of compassion and universal love is the essence of all religions.
(46.6) The mission of the Association of Master Chin Kung’s Friends at UNESCO is to promote communication and mutual  learning between religions and to revive its mission of communicating love. It is our sincere hope that all religions will become  one large family. It is also our belief that, if different religions can manage to understand and learn from one another, their  influence will increase and enable communities, political parties and nations to treat one another as equals in peace and  harmony. In that way, world peace would be here to stay, and that would be the most extraordinary contribution religions could  possibly make to humanity.
(46.7) It is our sincere hope that UNESCO will bolster its efforts to better communicate and disseminate teachings of love,  ethics, morality, causality, and people of virtue, and make world peace a reality. We wish to see UNESCO reinforce its  leadership in promoting interfaith dialogue. It is also our deep faith in UNESCO that encourages us to pledge our full support to  its efforts to fulfil its sacred mission. Thank you very much.  Mme Bustamante (Équateur) prend la présidence.
(47) The President (translation from the Spanish):   Thank you very much, Mr Wu Shin, for your presentation. Mr Patrick Gallaud of the Association francophone d’amitié  et de liaison (AFAL), you now have the floor.
48.1 M. Gallaud (Association francophone d’amitié et de liaison – AFAL) :   Madame la Présidente de la Conférence générale, Madame la Directrice générale, Excellences, chers amis,  l’Association francophone d’amitié et de liaison (AFAL) tient d’abord à remercier Mme Irina Bokova, Directrice générale,  pour les huit années d’humanisme qu’elle a fait vivre au sein de l’Organisation au quotidien. Elle souhaite aussi plein  succès à Mme Audrey Azoulay, désignée récemment par le Conseil exécutif pour succéder à Mme Bokova.
48.2 L’AFAL réunit, sur les cinq continents, des centaines d’associations ayant en commun l’usage de la langue  française. Il ne s’agit en aucun cas d’une ONG corporatiste mais d’une organisation qui souhaite protéger et étendre  l’usage de la langue française, porteuse, comme toute autre langue, de valeurs universelles. Les objectifs de l’AFAL  rejoignent d’ailleurs très largement ceux de l’UNESCO : diversité culturelle, culture de paix et de la non-violence,
276  promotion des droits de l’homme, lutte contre le racisme, villes créatives, rapprochement des cultures. Tous ces  programmes et bien d’autres en portent en effet témoignage.
48.3 C’est pourquoi, depuis 1991, et plus particulièrement depuis une dizaine d’années, l’AFAL a tenu à travailler  étroitement en coopération avec l’UNESCO, notamment grâce à son engagement au sein du Comité de liaison ONG- UNESCO. C’est au sein de cette plate-forme que l’AFAL a joué un rôle de premier plan dans la préparation et la  réalisation de forums internationaux d’ONG. Elle a été particulièrement active dans celui sur « Le rapprochement des  cultures » à Beijing et dans celui sur « La jeunesse et son impact social » à Riyad. Elle prend une part active dans la  préparation du Forum sur le changement climatique qui se tiendra ici-même, au Siège de l’UNESCO, en  décembre 2017.
48.4 Par ailleurs, l’AFAL a toujours été particulièrement attentive à la priorité globale Afrique. En effet, on estime à
350 millions le nombre de jeunes africains qui parleront français dans les années à venir ; on sait d’ailleurs, par ailleurs,  que l’Afrique sera essentielle à l’économie mondiale avec un fort taux de croissance. Le cœur de la francophonie sera  donc, bien entendu, en Afrique. C’est pourquoi l’AFAL organise, à la fin de ce mois de novembre, un séminaire  international de formation sur le thème « Les jeunes francophones face au défi de l’engagement citoyen ». Près de
50 participants, de 15 à 30 ans, issus des pays de la francophonie, notamment des pays d’Afrique, des PMA et des pays  post-conflits, bénéficieront de ce programme. De retour dans leur communauté locale, ces jeunes seront invités à  promouvoir des projets novateurs, notamment en lien avec les Objectifs de développement durable, de la paix, et ce non  seulement dans l’éducation formelle mais aussi non formelle et informelle.
48.5 Madame la Présidente, Mesdames, Messieurs, l’AFAL est engagée sans réserve dans la réalisation des  Objectifs de développement durable 2030. Elle estime, en effet, que ces objectifs, tout comme le programme de  l’UNESCO et, plus largement ceux des agences du système des Nations Unies, sont susceptibles de mobiliser la  jeunesse d’aujourd’hui en vue d’imaginer et de construire tous ensemble un monde meilleur. Merci pour votre attention.
(49) The President (translation from the Spanish):   Thank you very much. I now give the floor to Mr Bedri Baykam, President of the International Association of Art (IAA).
50.1 Mr Baykam (International Association of Art (IAA/AIAP)):   Dear Madam President, Your Excellencies, dear distinguished guests of the UNESCO General Conference, as  the Turkish President of the International Association of Art (IAA), I salute you all in the name of all the artists  associations that work as official partners of UNESCO and also on behalf of my Executive Committee.
50.2 IAA exists in order to protect artists’ rights and establish worldwide solidarity among the artists of the world and  has done so since 1952, when it was created by world-famous artists such as Calder, Braque, Miró, Vasarely, Magritte,  Marie Laurencin, Matta and many others. Our world is unfortunately experiencing chaos, which fosters clashes of  religion, ethnicity and race as well as anti-democracy and problems concerning freedom of speech. The best way to  contribute to peace in this tempestuous era of prejudices, hatred and corruption is by establishing creative dialogues  through art. As just one example, among others, we coordinated last year with our Korean Committee to host an  international art festival in Suncheon in order to promote solidarity on world consciousness in regards to ecology. We  have also contributed to the education for peace project with the children of the world, organizing two special exhibitions  over the last two years. It was a fulfilling experience.
50.3 Most of all, we accepted in 2011, at our General Assembly in Guadalajara, Mexico, Turkey’s proposal to hold an  annual celebration on 15 April, the birthday of Leonardo da Vinci, which IAA declared as World Art Day. This celebration  has raised considerable solidarity and fostered international events among nations, and we hope UNESCO will follow  these events and designate 15 April as World Art Day in its official list of international days in the future.
50.4 With all these efforts, we hope to extend the weight and value of art beyond major Western frontiers. The art  scene should be an arena with equal opportunities for all of the world’s artists. We ask all developed nations to care  about that. Major museums should not only show American, German, French, English, and Italian artists. We are also in  the process of changing our statutes in order to be able to accept artists from disadvantaged countries as new members.
50.5 We are aware of the problems that UNESCO is facing with some major countries. If it is any consolation, the  United States of America is becoming a new member of our Association and California will participate in World Art Day  activities.
50.6 Ladies and gentlemen, IAA is proud to be a partner of UNESCO and we ask each of you honourable Member  States to continue to collaborate with all NGOs as one of the main means to foster cooperation for peace and a better  world. We hope that you will all contribute to our goals. You can obtain our brochure from the NGO space. I wish the best  to the General Conference at its 39th session, and all its honourable participants. We thank Director-General Bokova for  her great contributions to UNESCO, and we wholeheartedly congratulate the new Director-General, Ms Audrey Azoulay.  Thank you very much.  Ms Alaoui resumes the Chair.
51. La Présidente :    Merci. Et maintenant je donne la parole à Mme Christine Roche, Présidente du Centre catholique international  de coopération avec l’UNESCO.
52.1 Mme Roche (Centre catholique international de coopération avec l’UNESCO – CCIC) :  Madame la Présidente, Monsieur le Président, Madame la Directrice générale, Excellences, Mesdames et  Messieurs, l’Organisation des Nations Unies et l’UNESCO ont été créées pour les peuples et au nom des peuples. Dès  la création de l’UNESCO, les ONG n’ont-elles pas été admises comme partenaires pour être associées à l’élaboration et  à la mise en œuvre de ses programmes, comme le confirment les directives de 2011 concernant le partenariat de  l’UNESCO avec les ONG ? Les ONG, avec leurs capacités humaines et matérielles, ne sont-elles pas sur le terrain, aux  côtés des populations, pour mettre en œuvre les actions et programmes de l’UNESCO, et, par là même, aider les États  membres ? Ces simples rappels, pour exprimer la fierté des ONG d’être les porte-voix des aspirations des peuples, et  d’être leurs représentants au sein des agences du système des Nations Unies.
52.2 Les changements qui bouleversent le visage du monde actuel ne nécessitent-ils pas l’expertise, la  connaissance de terrain des ONG, afin de mieux accompagner les populations pour leur bien-être ? Alors, les ONG ne  sont-elles pas des partenaires indispensables des États membres pour participer à l’élaboration des programmes ? De  fait, les ONG travaillent tous les deux ans sur le questionnaire envoyé par l’UNESCO pour préparer ses programmes.  Elles participent en particulier aussi aux travaux de la CC/ONG/EPT Éducation 2030. Cependant, le CCIC rejoint les  ONG qui aspirent à être sollicitées plus largement, en qualité d’expert, au sein des travaux de préparation des  programmes, des projets et des forums. La confrontation humaine reste fondamentale pour accomplir une œuvre  collective. C’est l’expérience du visage, développée par le philosophe Emmanuel Levinas.
52.3 Aujourd’hui, nous sommes tous interpellés par l’avancée vertigineuse des sciences et techniques qui  bouleversent nos façons de penser, de vivre, d’être ensemble, de s’engager pour le futur. La construction d’une stratégie  planétaire s’appuie maintenant sur la puissance digitale. L’UNESCO ne cesse de développer des journées d’information  et de débat sur ces puissances technologiques. Elle s’enrichit des travaux des experts internationaux réunis au sein du  CIB et de la COMEST. Aucun secteur n’échappe à la réalité du big data. Ainsi, l’UNESCO prend en compte les enjeux  de l’espace stratégique numérique dans lequel nous vivons. Et, à travers cet espace numérique, souhaite être la  conscience du monde et, en particulier, élever dans l’esprit des hommes et des femmes les défenses de la paix. Le  CCIC, plate-forme d’une quarantaine d’ONG, s’associe pleinement à cette noble tâche.
52.4 L’UNESCO n’est-ce-pas l’œuvre d’un partenariat entre États membres, société civile et secrétariat ?  L’interdépendance de ces trois composantes exige une vision systémique dans laquelle tous participent pour penser  ensemble la construction d’un monde pacifié où tous les citoyens auront accès à une éducation de qualité, intégrant la  diversité de leurs cultures, et jouiront d’une liberté qui respecte la dignité intégrale des personnes tout au long de leur  vie. Je remercie particulièrement Mme Irina Bokova pour ses appels incessants à lutter contre toutes sortes de  barbaries. Je vous remercie.
53. La Présidente :    Merci. Puis-je vous demander de respecter le temps de parole, qui est de trois minutes. Mme la Directrice  générale doit intervenir par la suite, et son calendrier est assez chargé. Merci. Et maintenant je donne la parole à M.  Rakoen Maertens, Représentant de l’Association universelle d’Esperanto.
54.1 Mr Maertens (Universal Esperanto Association (UEA):   Honourable President of the General Conference, Honourable Director-General, Your Excellencies,  distinguished delegates, ladies and gentlemen. Communication – that is why we are all here. We are here to find  common ground. We are here to grow in our understanding of each other. We all want to build partnerships around our  values, our beliefs and our shared vision. Yet communication is not always what it seems. There are barriers. One of  those barriers can be language, with differences in language level and linguistic background, depending on where one  was born; the interpretation of symbols and gestures, linked to a specific culture; inequality in self-expression, because a  certain language may not be recognized, while other languages are. Using a specific language, linked to a certain  culture, creates a communication bias.
54.2 The Universal Esperanto Association tries to address these issues. Together with more than 100 national  Esperanto associations and more than 60 specialized Esperanto agencies, our association advocates depth of  communication, equality of language and culture, language diversity and intercultural exchange. Founded in 1908, our  association has a long history in advocating these values. For over 60 years, our association has been in consultative  relations with the United Nations and UNESCO. During the UNESCO General Conference in Montevideo in 1954 and  Sofia in 1985, our work and achievements were officially recognized as advancing mutual understanding among the  peoples of the world.
54.3 The starting point of the international language Esperanto is the need for better communication, and this through  a shared, equitable language, a language that is easy to learn and that is not bound to any specific political power. This  year we are, together with UNESCO, commemorating the humanist who created Esperanto, Ludwik Zamenhof, as it is  the 100th year of his passing. We sincerely thank UNESCO and the Polish Delegation for helping us to organize this  celebration, and kindly invite you all to join us on 11 December in this building. We are also happy to announce that as of  this year, the revived UNESCO Courier has an Esperanto edition. Communication: I began these comments by  emphasizing the importance of quality communication. Let me finish by wishing you a profound, meaningful and  productive dialogue in a spirit of openness and understanding. Thank you.
55. La Présidente :    Merci. Je donne maintenant la parole à M. Cyril Noirtin, Représentant permanent du Rotary international auprès  de l’UNESCO.
56.1 M. Noirtin (Rotary international) :   Madame la Présidente de la Conférence générale, Monsieur le Président du Conseil exécutif, Madame la  Directrice générale, Excellences, Mesdames et Messieurs, le Rotary international est heureux de s’adresser aux  délégués de la 39e session de la Conférence générale. Partenaire officiel de l’UNESCO, en statut d’association, le  Rotary est l’une des principales organisations indépendantes de service au monde. Depuis plus de 110 ans, les  membres du Rotary utilisent leur passion, leur dynamisme et leur intelligence pour passer à l’action. Qu’il s’agisse  d’alphabétisation, de paix, d’eau ou de santé, nous travaillons avec détermination pour apporter des solutions ainsi qu’un  changement positif et durable dans nos villes et à l’étranger.
56.2 Avec l’UNESCO, nous entretenons une coopération étroite. Nous avons signé un partenariat stratégique avec  l’Institut UNESCO-IHE. Le Rotary finance chaque année la formation de 16 étudiants ingénieurs spécialistes de l’eau. Le  Rotary a également siégé, pendant deux mandats consécutifs, de 2012 à 2016, au Comité de liaison ONG-UNESCO. En  effet, nous avons tenu à accompagner la mise en œuvre des nouvelles directives concernant le partenariat des ONG  avec l’UNESCO.
56.3 Le Rotary est surtout connu et reconnu pour son programme de bourses d’études et son action humanitaire.  L’éradication de la polio est aujourd’hui la priorité principale du Rotary. Mais au-delà des actions humanitaires, le Rotary  a inscrit très tôt dans ses objectifs la compréhension internationale et l’aide à l’avancement de la paix. Cela est au cœur  de nos programmes et de nos engagements dans la société.
56.4 « La culture de la paix » est une vision partagée par le Rotary et l’UNESCO. Car, de fait, nous poursuivons l’un  et l’autre le même objectif. L’UNESCO comme institution intergouvernementale et le Rotary international comme  organisation de service privée. L’un et l’autre, nous concentrons nos efforts sur la paix, l’éducation, l’eau et également  l’éthique. Mais l’un et l’autre, nous restons indépendants de toute action politique et avons une approche adaptée pour  chaque région en créant des modèles qui reflètent la diversité de nos organisations.
56.5 Atteindre d’ici 2030 les Objectifs des Nations Unies pour le développement durable est sans nul doute un enjeu  essentiel pour l’humanité. Et cela ne pourra se réaliser que grâce à l’engagement des grands acteurs de la société civile  et un renforcement de leur coopération avec les États membres et les organisations intergouvernementales. C’est  pourquoi nous devons faire progresser cette collaboration, même s’il s’agira d’une question de temps et d’un processus  graduel.
56.6 Madame la Présidente, Mesdames et Messieurs, pour conclure, je citerai Gandhi : « Soyez le changement que  vous voulez voir dans le monde ». Merci de votre attention.
(58.1) Mr Al-Kandari (Al-Saad Foundation for Knowledge and Scientific Research) (translation from the Arabic):   In the name of God the Merciful, the Compassionate. Madam President of the General Conference, Madam Director- General of UNESCO, Excellencies, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank the former Director-General, Ms Irina Bokova,  for her efforts during her tenure. I would also like to congratulate Ms Audrey Azoulay for the confidence that Member States  have invested in her on her election to the post of Director-General of UNESCO, and wish her the very best success. We  thank you for facilitating the participation of the Al-Saad Foundation for Knowledge and Scientific Research in the activities of  the 39th session of the General Conference. Our participation will target Sustainable Development Goal 4 of the 2030 Agenda.  We hope that this participation will have an impact, albeit slight.
(58.2) Ladies and gentlemen, on the basis of UNESCO’s educational concept contained in the Education 2030 - Incheon  Declaration: Towards inclusive and equitable quality education and lifelong learning for all, which emphasizes the  philosophical change in UNESCO’s thinking and trends towards sustainable development, this goal can be achieved only  through global, regional and local efforts, as well as by promoting effective partnerships and responsibility between the public  and private sectors for the attainment of the development goals. We believe that the interrelationship between the  stakeholders of the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development is the equation we seek to promote and serve the public  interest. Therefore, government agencies must welcome the private sector without doubt, suspicion or competition. On the  other hand, the non-governmental sector must market itself as a strategic partner in sustainable development. Building on this  approach, we are proud that the Al-Saad Foundation for Knowledge and Scientific Research is one of the partners for the  attainment of the education-related development goal of the 2030 Agenda in Kuwait, to the extent commensurate with our  capabilities and experiences. The Kuwait Ministry of Education, the Kuwait National Commission for Education, Science and  Culture, the UNESCO Cluster Office for the Arab States of the Gulf and Yemen, the European Regional Centre in Eastern  Hungary and UNESCO have signed cooperation agreements with the relevant authorities.
(58.3) Ladies and gentlemen, as a non-governmental sector partner of UNESCO in local and international committees, it is  our responsibility to assist and share with the Ministry of Education in Kuwait and the Gulf States in providing educational  opportunities for all girls to enable them to effectively integrate sustainable development to the best of their abilities in order to  be effective players, in line with SDG 4-Education 2030.
(58.4) On the basis of the recommendations of the World Conference on Education for Sustainable Development in Aichi- Nagoya in 2014, which emphasized the need for a focus on education for sustainable development, the Foundation  participates in building the knowledge, awareness, values and attitudes necessary to enable educators, teachers and  administrators of education to play their role in the Education 2030 Agenda. This calls for frameworks defining procedural  steps for the development, implementation and follow-up of the plan of action arising from educational strategies for climate  change and sustainable development in accordance with the Global Action Programme on Education for Sustainable  Development.
(58.5) Ladies and gentlemen, in conclusion, we hope that this Conference will achieve its goals and objectives with the  participation and cooperation of all, for the good of all humankind. Praise be to God. Peace and the mercy and blessings of  God be upon you.
59. La Présidente :    Shoukran. Mme Maryvonne Kayser, j’ai le grand plaisir de vous appeler. Vous êtes, Madame, la Représentante  de l’Union mondiale des organisations féminines catholiques.
60.1 Mme Kayser (Union mondiale des organisations féminines catholiques – UMOFC) :   Madame la Présidente de la Conférence générale, Madame la Directrice générale, Excellences, Mesdames et  Messieurs, en tant que Représentante internationale de l’Union mondiale des organisations féminines, je suis heureuse  de vous présenter cette organisation aux journées de la 39e session de la Conférence générale.
60.2 L’UMOFC, fondée en 1910, représente 100 organisations catholiques de femmes dans le monde, réparties dans
66 pays sur tous les continents et certains États insulaires. L’UMOFC représente ainsi plus de huit millions de femmes  catholiques de toutes cultures. L’UMOFC, par ses actions et ses organisations membres dans le monde, contribue à  œuvrer aux mêmes thématiques que celles portées par l’UNESCO, que sont l’éducation, les sciences et la culture.  Soucieuses de pouvoir permettre à tous de pouvoir accéder à la connaissance par l’éducation, les sciences et la culture,  nos organisations membres sont investies sur le terrain. L’UMOFC collabore d’ailleurs avec une université italienne à  l’organisation d’un séminaire d’étude, qui se tiendra à Rome le 28 novembre prochain et dont le thème portera sur la  migration et la traite des personnes, d’où découleront toutes les thématiques de l’éducation, des sciences et de la  culture.
60.3 Les jeunes font partie des priorités de l’UMOFC et c’est aussi la raison pour laquelle, comme l’UNESCO, dans  ses projets, l’UMOFC est très investie sur le continent africain où des expériences de conduites de projets dans le  domaine de l’éducation sont porteurs de résultats encourageants au Gabon, au Cameroun, au Burundi, au Congo, au  Sénégal et au Mali.
60.4 Nos organisations membres sont également présentes en Amérique latine et investies dans la problématique  relative au manque d’eau. Au niveau local, un grand nombre de nos organisations travaillent actuellement à la  construction de puits d’eau potable dans des écoles rurales qui permettront aux enseignants et aux enfants de pouvoir  disposer d’eau potable.
60.5 L’éducation à la paix reste l’une de nos résolutions les plus importantes et, comme le rappelait la Directrice  générale de l’UNESCO, Mme Irina Bokova, le 21 septembre dernier dans son allocution pour la Journée mondiale de la  paix, l’importance pour « un monde pacifique durable » passe par de nouvelles formes de solidarité et d’actions  communes nécessaires pour combattre les obstacles à la paix. C’est ainsi que, le 13 mai dernier, la Présidente générale  de l’UMOFC invitait elle aussi, à l’occasion du centenaire des apparitions de Fatima, dans son message, à prier pour la  paix dans le monde et pour les familles. Je vous remercie de l’attention que vous avez bien voulu m’accorder pour cette  présentation brève des actions de l’UMOFC.
61. La Présidente :    Merci Madame. Notre prochain orateur est Mme Maria Antonietta Malleo, Mouvement international de la  réconciliation.
62.1 Ms Malleo (International Fellowship of Reconciliation (IFOR)):   Thank you, Madam President. Madam Director-General, Excellencies, distinguished delegates, we wish to  strongly thank Director-General Irina Bokova for relaunching this initiative for peace and gender equality in the framework  of a new humanism, and for the input given to cooperation with civil society. We warmly welcome Ms Azoulay and wish  her equally effective and satisfactory achievements.
62.2  Since 1914, IFOR has been working for the cause of non-violent conflict resolution and reconciliation. The  United Nations Treaty on the Prohibition of Nuclear Weapons and the last Nobel Peace Prize awarded to the  International Campaign to Abolish Nuclear Weapons (ICAN) show progress in humanity’s evolution, towards liberation  from its systems of structural violence, within which relations among nations, based on fear and suspicion, fuel  increasing investment in weapons.
62.3 In 1886, Leo Tolstoy answered the always relevant question “what is to be done” by hoping for a moral and  spiritual rebirth of the West and the East through the path of non-violence. Gandhi would develop this vision through the  “constructive programme”, 11 principles that include education in non-violence for children, voluntary simplicity, gender  equality and economic equality. It is a vision that we recognize and that tells us of a future of non-violence, of non- violence as the future.
62.4 Therefore, we identifiy some priorities. First, to move forward the institutionalization of peace and human rights  education in accordance with several United Nations and UNESCO resolutions. Many organizations and Nobel Peace  Prize laureates believe that the time is ripe for an agreement among Member States to introduce such content in national  curricula. Second, we need to face the cultural aspects of violence. In so-called mass culture, we are witnessing the  increasing normalization and aesthetic exploitation of violence, conflict and the concept of “enemy”, which are seized  upon by the global imagination of youth and children. It is urgent to foster dialogue with the main actors, such as the  entertainment industry, in order to promote awareness of this process of barbarization, where not only violence against  youngsters, but also violence of youngsters, is becoming an emergency. Third, we need to implement knowledge sharing  on the theory and practice of non-violent conflict resolution, in the pioneering field related to the nexus between art and  peace. Finally, observers denounce an increasing trend towards the criminalization of humanitarian action, to the point  where in the case of migrants and refugee rescues in the Mediterranean, there is talk of “humanitarian crime”. We  underline the value of the last Félix Houphouët-Boigny Peace Prize awarded to SOS Méditerranée and stress the need  for dialogue with political decision-makers for the creation of humanitarian corridors and networks of relocation and  integration, such as in the “Mediterranean Hope” of Comunità di Sant’Egidio and the Federation of Protestant Churches  in Italy. Thank you.
63. La Présidente :    Merci. Et maintenant je donne la parole à M. Philippe Beaussant, Président de la Conférence internationale des  ONG, Comité de Liaison ONG-UNESCO.
64.1 M. Beaussant (Conférence internationale des ONG, Comité de Liaison ONG-UNESCO) :   Madame la Présidente de la Conférence générale, Madame la Directrice générale, Monsieur le Président du  Conseil exécutif, Excellences, Mesdames et Messieurs, nous voudrions d’abord vous féliciter, Mme Bokova, pour les  énormes progrès accomplis dans le domaine de la coopération des organisations non gouvernementales avec  l’UNESCO au cours de vos deux mandats. Les nouvelles directives basées sur l’idée que l’UNESCO doit beaucoup plus  coopérer avec la société civile ont changé le rôle et l’importance de centaines d’ONG travaillant dans la culture,  l’éducation et la science. Merci encore pour vos décisions importantes comme celle d’inviter la société civile à agir avec  l’Organisation pour lutter pour la sauvegarde et la promotion du patrimoine culturel matériel et immatériel, pour la  diversité culturelle, pour la tolérance, les droits de l’homme et la paix.
64.2 La Conférence internationale des ONG, qui regroupe toutes les ONG partenaires officielles de l’UNESCO et qui  constitue un élément important de la coopération collective expressément prévue par les directives, se réunit tous les  deux ans. Organisée en étroite collaboration entre le Secrétariat et le Comité de liaison, la Conférence internationale des  ONG 2016 s’est tenue mi-décembre, et a mobilisé autour de 250 participants issus de plus de 120 ONG partenaires,  d’un nombre sans précédent de représentants d’États membres, avec la participation du Président du Comité PNG,  S. E. M. Tanasković. Cette Conférence avait pour thème de réflexion « Les défis de la révolution numérique pour les  ONG ». Les ONG ont réaffirmé leur engagement à inclure leurs futures activités dans le contexte du Programme 2030  pour le développement durable.
64.3 Sept forums internationaux des ONG se sont tenus depuis 2013. Le sixième Forum s’est déroulé au Mexique, à  Querétaro fin 2016, premier Forum à se dérouler en Amérique latine. Le thème choisi répondait tout à fait aux  questionnements posés par ces temps mondiaux troublés : « De la promotion à la construction de la paix avec les
281  ONG ». Pendant deux jours, plus de 800 participants, dont 600 étudiants, ont pris part à des discussions ouvertes et  dynamiques. Le septième Forum s’est quant à lui tenu à Riyad (Arabie saoudite), en mai 2017, en présence de Mme  Bokova, et a été organisé en partenariat avec la fondation MiSK. « La jeunesse et son impact social » était le thème de  ce Forum, le premier à se tenir dans la région arabe. L’événement a rassemblé quelques 2 000 participants, un nouveau  record. Le huitième Forum international des ONG se tiendra au Siège de l’UNESCO les 7 et 8 décembre prochains et  sera centré sur l’impact du changement climatique sur la société civile, les océans, le patrimoine culturel, les réserves de  la biosphère et les peuples autochtones. Deux autres forums seront organisés en 2018 : l’un autour de la question des  migrants, et l’autre sur la science et l’utilisation des connaissances scientifiques. Journée de la paix, le
21 septembre 2018 : « Drones et robots au service de la paix ». Il s’agit avant tout d’une campagne d’information et  d’éducation à la paix à partir des drones et des robots, si familiers aux jeunes. La Journée de la fille, le 11 octobre 2018 :  ce projet s’inscrit dans la stratégie opérationnelle pour la jeunesse, la lutte contre la discrimination et pour l’égalité des  genres.
64.4 Tout ceci semble simple, mais il faut savoir la complexité de l’organisation de forums hors Siège. Le succès et la  qualité de ces forums internationaux des ONG dépendent principalement des États membres à soutenir leur organisation  dans différentes régions, afin de sensibiliser et mobiliser les organisations de la société civile autour des valeurs et des  priorités de l’UNESCO. D’où la nécessité d’une interaction efficace entre les États membres et la société civile. Le  dialogue entre les ONG et le Secrétariat de l’UNESCO fonctionne bien. Malheureusement le dialogue entre les ONG et  les États membres n’est pas encore arrivé à ce niveau. C’est la raison pour laquelle le Comité de liaison soutient  fortement la résolution adoptée par le Comité PNG concernant la participation des ONG aux sessions du Conseil  exécutif
64.5 Le Comité de liaison dispose d’un espace consacré aux ONG dans le hall Ségur. Nous serons heureux de vous  y accueillir, notamment demain, mardi, à partir de 12 heures. Ce sera l’occasion d’évoquer les forums et autres  événements du Comité et de discuter avec tous des projets à venir. Je vous remercie.
65. La Présidente :    Merci. Excellences, Mesdames et Messieurs, nous avons écouté avec une attention particulière presque
200 déclarations tout au long de ce débat de politique générale, qui se termine cette matinée. Et nul doute que le  Secrétariat tiendra compte de vos remarques, de vos commentaires et de vos observations. J’ai le grand honneur de  donner la parole à Madame la Directrice générale, pour nous faire part de sa réponse au débat. Madame la Directrice  générale.   Reply by the Director-General to the general policy debate  Réponse de la Directrice générale au débat de politique générale  Respuesta de la Directora General al debate de política general  Ответ Генерального директора на обсуждение вопросов общей политики     رد المديرة العامة بشأن مناقشة السياسة العامة 总干事对总政策辩论的答辩
66.1 La Directrice générale :    Madame la Présidente de la Conférence générale, Monsieur le Président du Conseil exécutif, Mesdames et  Messieurs les ministres, Mesdames et Messieurs les ambassadeurs, permettez-moi tout d’abord de vous dire merci.  Merci pour vos marques d’engagement envers l’UNESCO. Merci pour vos paroles si aimables à mon égard. Merci  surtout pour vos contributions si précieuses à ce débat de politique générale, qui forment un panorama de la diversité  des expertises et des aspirations de cette maison. J’y vois d’abord l’expression d’un immense appétit de cultures, de  connaissances, un appel à célébrer notre diversité créatrice, qui font de l’UNESCO un endroit unique au monde, pour  construire des politiques différentes, penser l’avenir autrement.
66.2 C’est au poète Archibald MacLeish que l’on doit ces mots : « Les guerres prenant naissance dans l’esprit des  hommes et des femmes, c’est dans l’esprit des hommes et des femmes que doivent s’élever les défenses de la paix ».  Ce sont les poètes, les artistes, les intellectuels qui tracent la route et qui inspirent les programmes à l’UNESCO. Ils  furent nombreux à le faire : de Pablo Neruda à Paul Valéry, de Levi Strauss à Carlos Fuentes à Amadou Hampâté Bâ,  jusque Jean-Michel Jarre, Herbie Hancock et Esperanza Spalding. Nous avons eu la démonstration, cette année, en  écoutant sur cette scène le Premier Ministre des îles Cook interpréter le chant des ancêtres maori, et Baba Sakou sur un  air de kora.
66.3 L’UNESCO est une organisation inspirée, et cet esprit a fait éclore des concepts novateurs pour le monde : le  patrimoine mondial, les sociétés du savoir, les villes créatives et apprenantes, la citoyenneté mondiale. Car la vocation  de l’UNESCO, Mesdames et Messieurs, n’est pas seulement de décrire ce qui existe, mais de débattre de ce qui devrait  exister : quels sont les droits et valeurs à défendre dans les turbulences du monde ? Quels sont les outils à créer face  aux bouleversements sociaux, éthiques, techniques de l’humanité ? L’UNESCO est là pour mener la discussion, et  permettre aux peuples de prendre intellectuellement leur destin en main, par l’éducation, la culture, le partage des  savoirs, au lieu de subir les évolutions du monde. Et partout où les préjugés et le rejet dégénèrent en conflit, l’UNESCO  peut et doit intervenir et affirmer son autorité morale, en rappelant que l’intolérance frappe toutes les origines, toutes les  religions, et nous devons être unis pour y répondre.
66.4 L’UNESCO dénonce la persécution des chrétiens, par exemple, qui fuient le Proche-Orient, qui fut leur berceau,  et dont le nombre est passé en 10 ans de 1,5 million à 400 000 en Iraq. L’UNESCO dénonce toutes les formes  d’antisémitisme, dont nous voyons la résurgence préoccupante dans les médias, dans la culture ou dans le sport, et qui
282  tue les femmes et les hommes parce qu’ils sont juifs. L’UNESCO dénonce, avec le Secrétaire général des Nations  Unies, M. Guterres, la persécution des Royingyas, minorité birmane à majorité musulmane, victime des pires préjugés  racistes, comme lors du génocide des Tutsis au Rwanda. L’UNESCO est parfois présentée comme la « conscience de  l’humanité », mais c’est aussi l’une des organisations les plus ancrées sur le terrain. L’UNESCO a dénoncé  l’antisémitisme, mais aussi les préjugés contre les musulmans. Tout au long de ces huit ans, j’ai voulu renforcer ce  contact que l’UNESCO a tissé partout dans le monde, avec les professionnels du patrimoine, avec ces artistes, ces  chercheurs.
66.5 Quel que soit le nombre d’heures que nous mettons à rédiger des textes ou des politiques pour la paix et le  développement, au final, ce qui détermine la réussite d’un projet, ce sont toujours les hommes et les femmes qui le  portent, ce sont les talents, ce sont les ressources des peuples. C’est là qu’il faut investir, d’abord, dans les  compétences des hommes et des femmes, surtout des jeunes. Chaque enfant qui naît est une chance nouvelle pour la  paix, s’il accède à une éducation de qualité, s’il grandit dans le respect de son histoire et celle des autres. Chaque enfant  qui naît représente une chance nouvelle d’accroître nos connaissances, de comprendre les mutations complexes de  notre planète. L’UNESCO a été conçue précisément pour faire éclore ces talents et ces ressources humaines, comme  autant de leviers pour la paix et le développement.
66.6 Beaucoup parmi vous, Mesdames et Messieurs, ont souligné cette nécessité d’investir dans les compétences et  la recherche, dans les sciences et le partage des savoirs, à l’ère numérique, dans une économie de la connaissance et  des hautes qualifications. C’est le chantier de l’avenir, et c’est un moteur de la réalisation de tous les Objectifs de  développement durable d’ici à 2030, de mettre en commun les idées, pour accélérer l’innovation par davantage  d’échanges et d’inclusion.
66.7 Nous vivons, c’est vrai, un âge des limites, limites de nos ressources, limites de notre planète, et c’est pourquoi  j’appelle à investir dans les ressources illimitées de la créativité humaine. Ce sont nos ressources renouvelables par  excellence, pour le développement durable et pour la paix. L’UNESCO a été créée pour y investir et nous devons  préserver ce capital, en évitant les divisions qui nous affaiblissent. Tout ce qui vient rompre le consensus amoindrit notre  capacité d’action, et nous devons nous en prémunir au maximum.
66.8 Le Président sortant de la Conférence générale, M. Stanley Mutumba Simataa, a lancé un appel à la réforme de  la gouvernance de l’UNESCO, avec des propositions concrètes et précises, et que je vous invite à examiner avec  audace.  (La Directrice générale poursuit en anglais)
66.9 Ladies and gentlemen, all throughout this debate, we have heard of the rising turbulence facing the world. We  have heard from small island developing States (SIDS) on the frontlines of climate change, we have heard from  developed and developing countries of societies in deep transformation, we have heard the impact of conflict, disasters  and poverty on millions of women and men. We have heard about the complexity of challenges today, their multiple  dimensions. In seeking answers, I believe we must pay no heed to voices proposing simplistic solutions, calling for false  solutions, solutions that reduce choices.
66.10 When people ask us to choose between the protection of heritage and the protection of human lives, we must  respond that both are inseparable. When people ask us to choose between attachment to our country and our aspiration  to become global citizens, we must respond that both are linked. When people ask us to choose between freedom of  expression, access to information and the reinforcement of national security as a response to terrorism and violent  extremism, we must respond that all these should go together. When people point to cultural diversity as a pretext to  infringe upon human rights, we must respond, again and again, that cultural diversity and human rights are two sides of  the same coin, the coin of human dignity. When people say that jobs and the eradication of poverty must take  precedence over sustainability and the protection of the planet, we must respond that with a healthy planet and a healthy  ocean, everything is possible, including economic growth.
66.11 In times of trial, we are often asked to choose sides, and we must respond, again and again, that our side is that  of one humanity on one planet, because I believe one of the steepest challenges we face is the tyranny of narrow- mindedness, as was so well put by the distinguished representative of Slovenia. I see here UNESCO’s fundamental  mission – to help people think big, think ahead, to widen options for human rights for the benefit of all; to help  governments, societies and partners, look at the world from the right angle, as did the World Humanities Conference that  we held in Liege, Belgium, this August.
66.12 We have heard eloquent testimonies from every region. There is one red thread weaving throughout the chorus  of voices that has filled this hall, and that is a shared vision of humanity and peace; a vision that peace starts with women  and men, their rights, their dignity. I believe this is the right angle from which to see the world. The right angle is the  women I met in Kabul, Afghanistan, in 2015. Some were older, some were young and had babies with them. They were  all taking literacy classes, and they shared with me their thirst for learning, to gain skills, to negotiate in the marketplace –  how their husbands encouraged them to do so. The right angle is the children and parents I talked to at the Baharka  Camp for internally displaced persons, near Erbil in Iraq, when they gave me drawings of their dreams for a better future.  There were dreams of homes, dreams of schools, dreams of families being together. So, from this angle, ladies and  gentlemen, demand for UNESCO is boundless across the world. From this angle, the thirst for a new humanism knows  no boundary.
66.13 Madam President of the General Conference, you cited the great writer Aimé Césaire, who spoke of the need to  “connect man to man.” This is the very spirit of multilateralism, for which this Hall has resonated with powerful calls of  support. This started with the President of the General Assembly of the United Nations, Mr Miroslav Lajcak, when he
283  said, in his powerful statement: “Let us recommit to multilateralism. Let us fulfil the promises we have made to allow  people to live a decent life, in peace, on a sustainable planet.”
66.14 In newspapers around the world, we read analysts writing of a “G-zero world”, without global leadership. We  sometimes hear international organizations compared to dinosaurs, unfit, bound for extinction. To these claims, I answer  with the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development and the Paris Agreement on Climate Change – and in this spirit, I  wish every success to the 2017 United Nations Climate Change Conference, COP 23, opening today in Bonn, Germany,  presided over by H.E. Frank Bainimarama, Prime Minister of Fiji. These agreements were reached in 2015, on the  anniversary of the Congress of Vienna in 1815. Two hundred years have passed since 1815, and the contrast, ladies  and gentlemen, could not be greater – in terms of the number and nature of actors, in terms of scale, in terms of  ambitions, in terms of equality among States. The 2030 Agenda and the Paris Agreement must be seen as the most  ambitious, comprehensive promise ever made to all humanity. These agreements were reached because they were led  in a process owned by all Member States, because they were conducted on the principle of inclusion, allowing all to be  heard.
66.15 I believe this shows the unquenchable thirst that exists for collective action today, to transform new ideas into  norms, to frame new agendas on a universal basis. Inclusion. Openness. Ownership. This is precisely UNESCO’s role in  the fight to promote quality education for all, to empower girls and women everywhere, to promote sustainability science,  to advance ocean science and sustainable water management, to defend freedom of expression.
66.16 The distinguished representative of Sweden, the Minister, emphasized this when he said: “The 2030 Agenda  and the Paris Agreement are proof of what we can achieve when we work together”. I fully agree. The Second Vice  President of Afghanistan, Professor Danesh, said: “A world without UNESCO would be dark and lightless. A world  without education, science, culture, where only terror, fear and violence would rule”. I believe this highlights the stakes  we face. I see here the meaning of the words of the distinguished Minister of Indonesia when he said: “UNESCO is the  home of peace, hope and humanity”. And I see here the significance of the Sanskrit prayer chanted by the distinguished  representative of India: “Om shanti, shanti, shanti. Om, peace, peace, peace, this is our original agenda […] this is  UNESCO’s agenda”.
66.17 So, ladies and gentlemen, I close where I began. With thanks. With thanks for the vision of hope held out by so  many countries. With thanks for the determination we have heard, to sustain, to strengthen multilateralism today, against  winds of discord, to bolster UNESCO ever more, to continue its reform. With thanks to all members of the great  UNESCO family, including the international governmental organizations (IGOs) and NGOs, for their commitment to  raising our banner high across the world.
66.18 I wish to express special thanks to our host country, France, for its invaluable support all through these years;  for its commitment to multilateralism, culture and education at the heart of the global agenda; for leading efforts against  “cultural cleansing”, for the safety of journalists, on climate change, and a particular personal thanks for the support that  they have given me throughout these eight years as Director-General of UNESCO.
66.19 The words of President Keïta of Mali resonate still: “We must refuse the rule of weapons over reason”. I believe  that is the credo of this House. That is exactly UNESCO’s soft power. Today, more than ever, it requires the support of  every State, every society. Kenbe UNESCO Fà. The distinguished representative of Haiti reminded us of the call of  farmers in Haiti in 1957. Let us support UNESCO with all our strength. Kenbe UNESCO Fà. Thank you.
67. La Présidente :    Merci Madame la Directrice générale. Merci au nom de la Conférence générale, je tiens à remercier très  chaleureusement la Directrice générale pour sa réponse claire et complète au débat de politique générale. Excellences,  Mesdames et Messieurs, nous attendons d’ici à quelques minutes le rapport de la Présidente du Comité des  candidatures. Merci de bien vouloir rester assis à votre place, et la séance est suspendue pour trois minutes. Merci.   La séance est suspendue à 13 h 35 et reprend à 14 h 05.  Report of the Nominations Committee   Rapport du Comité des candidatures   Informe del Comité de Candidaturas   Доклад Комитета по кандидатурам    تقرير لجنة الترشيحات  提名委员会的报告   :الرئيسة ٦٨ برتشيح  من جدول أعمالنا املتعلق ١-١٣السيدات والسادة، قبل أن أختتم جلستنا هذه، سنقوم بدراسة تقرير رئيسة جلنة الرتشيحات بشأن البند   رية مسرية املوسى، أعضاء اجمللس التنفيذي. وقد عقدت جلنة الرتشيحات هذا الصباح اجتماعاً مطوًال لدراسة مشروع قرار يف هذا الصدد. وأطلب من سعادة السف  رئيسة جلنة الرتشيحات تقدمي تقرير عن هذا البند. السيدة الرئيسة، لك الكلمة.
(68) The President (translation from the Arabic):   Ladies and gentlemen, before concluding this session, we will examine the report of the Chairperson of the  Nominations Committee on agenda item 13.1 on the nomination of Members of the Executive Board. The Nominations  Committee held a lengthy meeting this morning to consider a draft resolution in this regard. I ask Her Excellency Ambassador  Samira Al Moosa, Chairperson of the Nominations Committee, to report on this item. Madam Chairperson, the floor is yours.
69. Ms Al Moosa (Chairperson of the Nominations Committee):   Thank you, Madam President. And our apologies for taking so long, but as you said, it was a fruitful and long  discussion. The Nominations Committee held its fifth meeting this morning, during which it examined draft resolution
39 C/NOM/DR.1, submitted by Portugal on behalf of the Member States of electoral Group I concerning the replacement  of the United States of America in the Executive Board of UNESCO upon its withdrawal from UNESCO. Madam  President, the Nominations Committee approved the draft resolution with amendments. The text appears in English on  the screen. It will then be projected in French. I submit to you, Madam President, and to the plenary the draft resolution  for its consideration. Thank you.
70. La Présidente :   Je vous remercie, Madame. J’ai donc le plaisir de soumettre le projet de résolution 39 C/NOM/DR.1 tel  qu’amendé, proposé par le Comité des candidatures pour approbation de la Conférence générale, et qui va s’afficher  maintenant à l’écran. Honorables délégués, vous avez donc écouté le rapport de Mme la Présidente du Comité des  candidatures, avec le projet de résolution amendé. Pouvons-nous l’adopter ? Je ne vois pas d’objections. La délégation  de Cuba. Vous avez la parole.
(71) Cuba (translation from the Spanish):   Thank you very much, Madam President, and I thank the Chairperson of the Nominations Committee for her  presentation on the work of the Committee. I would like to ask her why we received a draft resolution that was distributed this  morning, barely an hour ago, and which I think had been distributed before, but did not contain several amendments she  mentioned during her presentation. It was quite difficult for us to study the amendments as they appeared on the screen. At  some point, if I understood correctly, they appeared in red, but we could not see them clearly. I would like to ask the  Secretariat whether it would not be advisable to study the draft resolution and then take a decision on it once we have been  able to examine the amendments. I am not saying we have any specific problems with it, just that we would like to see the  amendments and what they are about, as I think I even saw some that concerned changes to the regional groups, and I would  like to study them more closely. With your approval, Madam President, we would like a little more time to see the  amendments, because they are not included in the document we have before us. Thank you very much.
72. La Présidente :   Madame la Présidente, souhaiteriez-vous apporter une réponse ?
73. Ms Al Moosa (Chairperson of the Nominations Committee):   Thank you, Madam President. The question was actually to the Secretariat. However, I can say that these  amendments were made in the room and that we have just finished. As the question was to the Secretariat, I know they  did not have time, but if they want to say anything, please, I give you the floor. Thank you.
74. La Présidente :    Monsieur le représentant de Cuba, ce que je propose c’est que le texte soit remis à l’écran. La difficulté que  nous avons c’est que le texte doit être adopté avant le 8, puisque c’est le jour de l’élection. Mais nous prenons en  considération votre remarque et donc le texte sera remis à l’écran. Si vous permettez, nous allons laisser le texte à  l’écran, et je vois que le Nigéria a demandé la parole. Donc, la Délégation du Nigéria, vous avez la parole.
75. Nigeria:   Thank you very much, Madam President. I am very happy to be here and to be working under your leadership.  By the same token, I also want to thank the Chairperson of the Nominations Committee for the Committee’s work and to  recall her statement that this has been very tough but very rewarding. I think it is incumbent on us as a plenary of the  General Conference to do justice to the work that has been done by the Nominations Committee. Now we received a text  this morning. Fortunately, we have had a recess, and we have been able to study it and take in what it says. However,  this is a new text with additions. If, for instance, there is a paragraph 5 that I can hardly read from here, but which seems  to be of particular importance. I think what we really need is a text in due form so we can see what the final text is and do  justice to the Committee’s work. Otherwise, we will be trying to adopt something that we cannot see from here. I do not  know if there are people who can see what is on the screen. From here, even with my glasses, I cannot read the text on  the screen. So, we will appreciate it because this is very important and I know time is of the essence because we have to  start the elections soon, but we will need to see the text to be able to appreciate the work, particularly the work of  amendment that the Committee has made. Thank you very much, Madam President.
76. La Présidente :    Merci Monsieur le Délégué du Nigéria. Évidemment, l’étude de ce projet de résolution porte sur un sujet  extrêmement important qui nous concerne tous. Ma proposition serait que vous repreniez l’étude et l’examen de ce
285  projet aujourd’hui même, à 15 h 30 dans la salle XI, de façon à permettre à toutes les délégations d’apporter leurs  observations s’il y en a eu. Donc voilà. Je propose à la salle de reprendre l’examen de ce projet, aujourd’hui, 15 h 30,  salle XI. Et, par la suite, la plénière, évidemment, devra adopter le projet tel qu’amendé.
77. Ms Al Moosa (Chairperson of the Nominations Committee):   Thank you, Madam President, but I think the Nominations Committee has held and concluded all its discussions.  I think if you want at 3.30 p.m., it should be in the plenary so Member States will have time to look at it and return to  consider the amended draft resolution. If we go back to Room XI, that means that we are reopening a discussion, and we  have really had enough of the discussions. We have a draft resolution that is amended. So please, if we can come back  to the plenary at 3.30 p.m. Thank you, Madam President.
78. The President:   Democratic Republic of the Congo, you have the floor.
79. République démocratique du Congo :    Merci beaucoup Madame la Présidente. Une proposition. Effectivement j’appuie ce que la Présidente de la  Commission des candidatures vient de dire. Rentrer dans la salle XI cela veut dire qu’on reprendrait les travaux du  Comité des candidatures. Je propose à ce que le Secrétariat puisse, pendant le temps que vous nous donnez, jusqu’à
15 h 30, imprimer les deux versions, anglais et français, et venir distribuer les documents, pour qu’on revienne à 15 h 30  avec les documents sous format papier. Merci beaucoup Madame la Présidente.
80. La Présidente :    Je donne la parole à l’Afrique du Sud, suivie de la France.
81. South Africa:   President, I would just like to support what our colleague from the Democratic Republic of the Congo just said  and also the Chairperson of the Nominations Committee. We were quite a number of countries from across all regional  groups that negotiated this text, and it took us quite a while to reach consensus. Paragraph 5 in particular was what  allowed us to move forward with it. So maybe if we could go along with what was suggested by our colleague from the  Democratic Republic of the Congo, we could come back here, and maybe everybody could get the text over lunch or a  little bit of what is left. Have a look at the text and then we can come back here, but we are not going back to Room XI to  negotiate anything. We are not going to make any further progress there. This is the agreement that we were able to  reach among a number of countries. It was not a select group. It was an open meeting that any country could attend, so  we would appeal to colleagues not to reopen this text. We are not going to get anywhere if we do that. Thank you.
82. La Présidente :   Je redonne la parole à la Délégation de la France.
83. France :    Merci beaucoup Madame la Présidente. C’est pour soutenir ce que viennent juste de dire et l’Afrique du Sud et  la République démocratique du Congo. Ce texte a fait l’objet d’une discussion et de négociations au sein du Groupe  ouvert. Et, au fond, bon, c’est à peu près ce sur quoi on s’est mis d’accord. Par conséquence ce qu’il faut c’est laisser le  temps que les deux versions, française et anglaise, soient disponibles. Peut-être que 15 h 30 pour un examen en  Conférence générale, en plénière de la Conférence générale, c’est peut-être un petit peu trop court. Peut-être que, au  fond, c’est demain matin, une fois que tout le monde aura regardé le texte que, éventuellement, demander des  instructions à sa capitale, que ce nouveau projet de résolution pourra être adopté par consensus.
84. La Présidente :    Cuba a la parole, suivie de Guyane.
(85) Cuba (translation from the Spanish):   Thank you, Madam President. I am sorry for requesting the floor again. I think that the proposal made by the  Democratic Republic of the Congo, which was supported by South Africa and France, is precisely what I had in mind when I  first spoke, namely, that it could be helpful to have a little more time to review the amendments. Indeed, the draft resolution  has already been discussed by various countries, so we were asking to review the amended draft a little. We do not want to  delay the debate, however, and so I support the proposal made by the Democratic Republic of the Congo. Thank you very  much.
86. La Présidente :    Guyane. Vous avez la parole.
87. Guyana:   Thank you, Madam President, I would like to endorse the recommendation made by the Democratic Republic of  the Congo and supported by the other States. In the interest of time, may I suggest that we go straight ahead, print and
286  circulate it, and determine the most convenient time for most of us here to reconvene. I would just like to add my support  to that suggestion. Thank you.
88. La Présidente :    Bien. Alors je pense que pour satisfaire l’ensemble des délégations ici présentes je pourrais vous proposer un  débat plénier aujourd’hui à 17 heures. Vous n’y voyez pas d’objection ? Bien. Il en est ainsi décidé.   The meeting rose at 2.40 p.m.  La séance est levée à14 h 40  Se levanta la sesión a las 14.40  Заседание закрывается в 14.40  بعد الظهر ٢,٤٠رفعت اجللسة يف الساعة    会议于 14 时 40 分结束