1. La Présidente :  Excellences, Mesdames et Messieurs, je déclare ouverte la huitième séance plénière de la Conférence  générale, qui, comme ce matin, sera consacrée aux déclarations nationales. Compte tenu de la liste des orateurs, je me  permettrai de réitérer mon appel à respecter le temps accordé à chaque délégation. Et maintenant j’ai le grand plaisir de  donner la parole à notre premier orateur, S. E.  M. Ismet Yilmaz, Ministre de l’éducation nationale de la Turquie.
2.1 Mr Yilmaz (Turkey):    Madam President of the General Conference, Mr Chairperson of the Executive Board, Madam Director-General,  Excellencies, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, allow me to express our congratulations to you, Madam President, on  your election as President of the 39th session of the General Conference. Let me also thank His Excellency Stanley  Mutumba Simataa for the excellent leadership that he has shown in the last two years and, in particular, his dedication to  the governance process.
2.2 Ladies and gentlemen, Turkey strongly believes in the mission of this Organization to build peace in the minds of  men and women. UNESCO has done a lot, and I would like to acknowledge some of the major achievements of the  Organization. UNESCO has not only spearheaded the formulation of Sustainable Development Goal 4 on education but  has also been promoting prioritization of girls’ education, quality education, education for all and global citizenship.  UNESCO has asserted itself as the world authority in the field of culture through adoption of international instruments  and their implementation. It has also been a driving force in the protection and reconstruction of destroyed cultural  heritage and has been fighting against the trafficking of cultural artefacts. Being a party to all major international legal  instruments, Turkey cooperates with all relevant actors for the protection and conservation of cultural heritage in Turkey  and beyond its borders.
2.3 UNESCO’s achievements are broader than this. Unfortunately, we are still witnessing extremism and terrorism,  phobias of all sorts, discrimination and racism, religious and ethnic intolerance, destruction of cultural heritage sites,  limited access to basic education, gender inequality, low-quality education, climate change and limited access to drinking  water. We need UNESCO more than ever. Though UNESCO has the mandate and the capacity to address these  challenges, it is regrettable that our Organization is going through a crucial phase with dwindling financial resources. The  time has come to evaluate its core programmes and consider its priorities in order to focus on those areas where  UNESCO has a comparative advantage. While being more confident about UNESCO’s impact at the global, national and  local levels, we must avoid the risk of marginalization, especially in the core areas of UNESCO’s fields of competence.  This is what we expect from the new Director-General: to look into this matter in consultation with the Member States, to  reform the Organization and to reposition UNESCO to fulfil its core mandate in order to be able to better serve its  Member States and to make it more relevant and focused. We appreciate the governance process launched two years  ago. We seek a real change as we move towards more coherence, efficiency and accountability. Turkey is committed to  this process.
2.4 Ladies and gentlemen, as a founding member and a strong advocate of this Organization, we believe that  UNESCO is best placed to address some of today’s challenges. To further support UNESCO’s efforts we have decided  to put forward our candidacy for election to its Executive Board for the 2017-2021 period. Although we have not been a  member of the Executive Board since 2005, we have remained a very active member of UNESCO through our work in  the relevant intergovernmental programmes and important committees of the Organization. We have also supported the  Organization financially over a critical period and seconded experts.
2.5 In the education sector, we have been carrying out a set of domestic reforms in order to cope better with modern  challenges in this field. Let me share with you some of our achievements. In the course of just eight years, we have  increased the enrolment of 7- to 17-year-olds from 81% to 90%. We are making tremendous efforts to provide good- quality schools for the lower-income segments of our population, while focusing especially on girls. We have developed a  new curriculum that goes beyond traditional approaches and employs active learning methods to develop analytical and  creative thinking skills for problem-solving. We have also attracted the private sector to invest in the hardware and  software infrastructure of our education sector. These are part of our efforts to increasingly connect our education system  with the global community. We believe this experience sets a good example, an experience that we are prepared to  share through UNESCO.
2.6 We have opened our doors to the victims of war, torn from their homeland since the outbreak of the Syrian  crisis. We are currently hosting over 3 million displaced persons from the Syrian Arab Republic. Turkey has been  providing not only shelter, security and healthcare from her own resources but also education to those who are in need of  schooling. At present there are 976,200 Syrians and Iraqis of school age in Turkey. We are proud to say that we have  succeeded in taking 619,000 children into the school system. We have done our fair share, and we will continue to fulfil  this humanitarian responsibility. Furthermore, I am glad to announce that we have completed the internal ratification  process for the 2005 Convention on the Protection and Promotion of the Diversity of Cultural Expressions. We are about  to make the official notification to the UNESCO Secretariat.
2.7 Ladies and gentlemen, Turkey is ready to take responsibility as a Member of the Executive Board. For the  challenges ahead we are committed and are willing to work with all of you under the guidance of the new Director- General. Together, we want to build on the strengths of UNESCO. I would like to express Turkey’s readiness to support  Ms Azoulay in her future efforts to further strengthen UNESCO and wish her the best in this mission. Let me also take  this opportunity to thank Ms Irina Bokova for her excellent management of the Organization in these troubled and  demanding times. She never lost hope and continued to work very hard to keep the Organization standing. We wish her  all the best in her future endeavours. Thank you.
(4.1) Mr Al-Waz (Syrian Arab Republic) (translation from the Arabic):   Your Excellency, Madam Director-General of UNESCO, Madam President of the General Conference, Mr Chairperson  of the Executive Board, ladies and gentlemen, I and the delegation of my country, the Syrian Arab Republic, are pleased to  take part in the work of the 39th session of the General Conference of UNESCO. We bring to you greetings from our people
130  who are standing firm in the face of terrorism, defending their land and sovereignty in the Syrian Arab Republic, the palace of  human civilization. We thank Her Excellency, the Director-General, Irina Bokova, for her achievements. We welcome the  decision of the Executive Board to nominate Ms Audrey Azoulay to the post of Director-General. We congratulate Ms Zohour  Alaoui on her term of office as President of the General Conference.
(4.2) Being well aware of the vital role played by our venerable Organization, my country urges the Member States to  strengthen their multilateral cooperation as a mainstay of peace in a world of growing challenges. On this basis, my country  supports the continuation of efforts for reform and better governance at UNESCO, and stresses the need for the international  community and Member States, without exception, to ensure the financial resources needed for the sustainability of the  Organization and its noble mission. The Syrian Arab Republic has paid its financial contributions in full to UNESCO over the  past seven years, despite the pressure of the war, blockade and unfair sanctions. It welcomes the Organization’s renewed  commitment to the Draft Programme and Budget for 2018-2021 and the adjustment of UNESCO’s Medium-Term Strategy for
(4.3) Ladies and gentlemen, the Syrian Arab Republic reiterates its adherence to the inseparable twin paths of the fight  against terrorism and the search for political solutions. With the ongoing defeat being inflicted by the Syrian Arab Republic on  the armed terrorist bands, since the beginning of the current school year, half a million pupils, male and female, have returned  to their desks and schools. The Syrian Government is following the global outlook for implementation of the 2030 Agenda for  Sustainable Development, and is exerting efforts to implement the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), in particular SDG
4 and its objectives, the Education First initiative and education for all (EFA), lifelong education, quality education, teacher  training, girls’ and early childhood education, in addition to the priorities such as Priority Africa, gender equality, science and  the environment, water, technology, information, the social and human sciences, youth and sport programmes, the UNESCO  Creative Cities Network, and the Memory of the World Register. The Syrian Arab Republic devotes all due attention to the  education and higher education sectors, and allocates the necessary funds for the continuation and development of the  education process, thereby helping to build Syrian individuals and enable them to meet the challenges of war, strengthen  positive inclinations, orientations and values, and resist all forms of terrorism and extremist thinking.
(4.4) We reiterate our government’s support and appreciation for UNESCO’s strategies and efforts to respond to and resist  crises and emergencies, in the hope that we may arrive at a shared conviction that what we are facing is grave and requires  the energies of all to be mobilized in other to fight terrorism and extremist thinking, to reject racist concepts and practices, to  succeed in inculcating the concepts of tolerance and respect for differences, and in building a world dominated by the values  of friendship, equality and peace. On this basis, we support the just causes of the Group of 77 and China and the BRICS  countries.
(4.5) Ladies and gentlemen, UNESCO has succeeded in consecrating the global vision of culture and its role in  strengthening world peace and security. The two relevant Security Council resolutions 2199 (2015) and 2347 (2017) and the  strategy for reinforcing UNESCO’s action for the protection of culture and the promotion of cultural pluralism in the event of  armed conflict all oppose the barbarism of the armed terrorist groups responsible for destroying and plundering the heritage of  humanity in the Syrian Arab Republic and Iraq. We commend the positions the Organization has taken and its efforts in  support of national expertise in the field of urgent maintenance, protection and preservation of the tangible and intangible  human cultural heritage in the Syrian Arab Republic, the fight against trafficking in cultural property, and seeking to recover  archaeological artefacts plundered from them. We reiterate the legitimacy of UNESCO resolutions and decisions relating to  Jerusalem and the occupied Arab territories, including the occupied Syrian Golan, and we reject the systematic violations of  the sacred sites and heritage of our people and its educational and cultural establishments and their role in preserving our  national and historical identity.
(4.6) Ladies and gentlemen, despite all the circumstances endured by my country for nearly seven years now, it is now on  the way to achieving victory over extremist thinking and all forces which support and sponsor terrorism, thanks to the  steadfastness of its people, the sacrifices of its army, and the stands taken by its leader, President Bashar al-Assad, who has  stressed that culture, education and science provide the greatest guarantee of achieving social wellbeing and preserving  stability in the region, and that it is necessary to work to preserve the spirit of the Syrian heritage, which is both varied and  open to the daily lives of people, by means of good-quality projects which may draw on UNESCO expertise in the future. Here,  our vision as Syrians meshes with the vision and principles of UNESCO in constructing the defences of peace in the minds of  human beings. Both visions will in future aim for the best for us and for all humanity. Thank you for your attention.
5. La Présidente :   Shukran. Je donne maintenant la parole à S.E. M. Lazarus Dokora, Ministre de l’enseignement primaire et  secondaire du Zimbabwe.
6.1 Mr Dokora (Zimbabwe) :   Madam President of the General Conference, Mr Chairperson of the Executive Board, Director-General,  Excellencies, and distinguished delegates, my delegation and I wish to congratulate the President of the 39th session of  the General Conference on her election. You can count on our full support as you carry out your onerous responsibilities.  I also wish to express my delegation’s appreciation of the sterling work done by your predecessor, His Excellency  Stanley Simataa. We also recognize and appreciate the great work done by the outgoing Director-General, Ms Irina  Bokova, despite the harsh financial challenges. We convey our best wishes to you, Madam Director General, in your  future endeavours. We congratulate  Ms Audrey Azoulay on her nomination as the next Director-General of our  Organization and look forward to working with her.
6.2 Madam President, Zimbabwe is committed to successful accomplishment of the Sustainable Development  Goals (SDGs). We consider their implementation the only way to improve the lives of our people and contribute to global  prosperity, stability and peace. We are undertaking this through concerted national efforts that include the Government  working collaboratively with the private sector, civil society, knowledge institutions and youth and women’s organizations  in the five sectors of UNESCO’s mandate. Zimbabwe has taken full cognizance of the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable  Development in crafting our 2018 macroeconomic framework for national development and budgeting processes  integrating social and economic development.
6.3 Madam President, education remains Zimbabwe’s highest priority. We have taken measures to transform the  education system so that it can impact the achievement of the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development and the  development of a strong national economy. In January this year we launched a new curriculum framework from early  childhood to pre-university levels. This curriculum, in addition to focusing on knowledge, emphasises skills and values.  The process of rolling out and implementing this curriculum requires resources for teacher training, appropriate teaching  and learning materials, and infrastructure development at all levels in rural, urban and farming communities. Our focus is  on producing high-end skills grounded in science and technology for industrialization and modernization to meet the  needs of the country. Our universities and tertiary institutions are working to reform their operations in order to produce  skills that are relevant to a technology-driven economy.
6.4 Taking cognizance of the critical role played by heritage and culture in economic development, our institutions  are now required to mainstream culture and heritage in their programmes. Madam President, we commend the work that  has been done to date in building capacity especially with respect to teacher development over the past two years. It is  our desire to see UNESCO move towards assisting Member States to develop and implement programmes that will  ensure the attainment of Sustainable Development Goal 4. Zimbabwe has a strong and diverse cultural base to provide  for development of competitive cultural industries. In order to promote the diversity of cultural resources, including our  indigenous knowledge systems, we have ratified five of the six cultural instruments for the protection and promotion of  cultural heritage. We are also participants in the development and implementation of a sustainable tourism strategy  for  our five world heritage sites with support from UNESCO and the African World Heritage Fund.
6.5 Madam President, as host of a UNESCO subregional office, my government will spare no effort in its support for  the UNESCO Regional Office for Southern Africa (ROSA) so that it can deliver on its mandate, including the International  Hydrological Programme. We also appreciate the fact that, despite the financial challenges facing UNESCO, the regional  office has a robust portfolio of programmes which facilitate regional integration. Let me express our gratitude to those  Member States which provide extrabudgetary support to our regional office.
6.6 Madam President, for us in Africa the field offices play a critical role in supporting our efforts on the ground. I  therefore would like to stress that the necessary reforms and scaling down which may be on their way owing to the  Organization’s financial difficulties should take into account the important role that the field office network plays in  delivering UNESCO’s programmes and supporting the Member States. In conclusion, Madam President, let me  commend the Secretariat for putting together the new draft programme and budget for 2018-2021 (39 C/5), which we  support fully, particularly the maintenance of Global Priority Africa. Thank you.
7. La Présidente :   Merci, Votre Excellence. Je donne à présent la parole à S. E. Mme Martina Lubyová, Ministre de l’éducation,  des sciences, de la recherche et des sports de Slovaquie.
8.1  Ms Lubyová (Slovakia) :   Madam President of the General Conference, Madam Director-General, Mr Chairperson of the Executive Board,  distinguished delegates, honoured guests, ladies and gentlemen, it is a great honour for me to address the General  Conference of UNESCO, the supreme political and decision-making body of this unique global organization. At the  outset, I take the liberty of congratulating UNESCO’s Director-General, Irina Bokova, on all her accomplishments and  express thanks on behalf of my country, Slovakia, for her transformative work and her commitment and dedication to the  just cause of this Organization.
8.2 President Nelson Mandela once said, “Education is the most powerful weapon that you can use to change the  world.” In my view, UNESCO has fully embraced this idea and has worked ceaselessly over the last decade to bring  nations and people together through education, science, culture and communication. In the current global context, its  ambition to contribute to peace and development through cooperation in the domains of education and culture is more  relevant than ever. As Minister of Education, I very much appreciate UNESCO’s emphasis on education as a crucial tool  for sustainable development and progress in the pursuit of economic well-being and the prevention of radicalization and  extremism. I support the adoption of education for sustainable development and global citizenship education  programmes in school curricula as a means of fostering comprehension between diverse cultures as well as combating  extremism.
8.3 Ladies and gentlemen, let us remind ourselves that the coming year, 2018, has been designated as the  European Year of Cultural Heritage. In Slovakia we look forward to developing our collaboration further in this respect,  especially within the framework of world heritage routes in the European Union. This unique project has been launched  by the European Commission and the World Heritage Centre in order to promote cultural and human interaction. In May
2017 Slovakia launched the World Heritage and Sustainable Tourism Programme and we appreciate UNESCO’s  assistance in projects aimed at raising the UNESCO brand name and the visibility of Slovak world heritage sites.
8.4 As for the global scene, we rely on UNESCO’s programmes in implementation of the 2030 Agenda for  Sustainable Development. Programmes such as the International Hydrological Programme (IHP), the Programme on  Man and Biosphere (MAB) and the Management of Social Transformations (MOST) Programme, to name just a few, are  already an integral part of our approach to implementing the 2030 Agenda in an external environment, and we aim to  strengthen these programmes at the domestic level as well. However, as we work on this global agenda it is evident that  the new global challenges reflected in it will not be solved by old-fashioned methods. They require adequate reforms and  strengthened coherence at all relevant levels across the international system. Within its means and capabilities, Slovakia  has contributed and will continue to contribute to the fulfilment of the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs).
8.5 Before concluding, ladies and gentlemen, allow me to revisit the question of UNESCO’s future role and  development. UNESCO, in my view, must become a platform with the main role of building peaceful, sustainable,  democratic and inclusive knowledge societies. To achieve this vision we do not necessarily need to engage in grand,  heroic actions. Small acts, when amplified by the efforts of millions of people, can lead the process of change. Slovakia is  ready to play its part and use all windows of opportunity to advocate for a sustainable future for all nations across the  planet. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your attention.
9. La Présidente :   Merci Monsieur le Ministre. Je donne maintenant la parole à S. E. M. Dato’ Seri Mahdzir Bin Khalid, Ministre de  l’éducation de Malaisie. Monsieur le Ministre.
10.1 Mr Khalid (Malaysia):   Madam President of the General Conference, Mr Chairperson of the Executive Board, Madam Director-General,  Honourable Ministers and heads of delegations, distinguished delegates, on behalf of the Government of Malaysia I am  deeply honoured to appear before you, and I am also happy to convey best wishes in a spirit of unity from both the  Government and the people of Malaysia for the success of this session of the General Conference. Madam President, I  would first like to congratulate Her Excellency, Ms Audrey Azoulay of France, who has been nominated by the Executive  Board of UNESCO at its 202nd session for the post of Director-General. I also wish to pay special tribute to the outgoing  Director-General of UNESCO, Her Excellency Ms Irina Bokova. She has ably guided this Organization during a period of  financial turbulence and was able to optimize the limited resources in order to implement the programmes during her  term. Congratulations and thank you very much, Ms Bokova.
10.2 With the establishment of the Malaysia-UNESCO Cooperation Programme (MUCP) in 2011 and the signing of  the Malaysia Funds-In-Trust (MFIT) agreement in 2013, the Government of Malaysia has provided financial support to
26 projects and programmes. To ensure the sustainability of these projects, Malaysia has agreed to this cooperation  being continued until June 2019, under a new supplementary agreement on cooperation in education, science, culture,  communication and information. It is with pleasure that I announce that, under the MUCP-MFIT Programme, the  Government of Malaysia, in partnership with UNESCO and the secretariat of the Association of South-East Asian  Nations (ASEAN), will be hosting ASEAN’s first symposium and consultation on implementation of the 2015  Recommendation concerning the Preservation of, and Access to, Documentary Heritage, including in Digital Form. The  symposium, which will be held in May 2018, is expected to produce action plans for its implementation by UNESCO- ASEAN Member States.
10.3 Madam President, Malaysia is currently the Chair of the ASEAN Education Ministers Meeting, the theme of  which is “Fostering ASEAN Community of Learners: Empowering Lives through Education”. Under the ASEAN Work  Plan on Education 2016-2020 we strongly support the joint commitment of UNESCO and ASEAN countries to address,  among other things, the issue of out-of-school children through implementation of the ASEAN Declaration on  Strengthening Education for Out-of-School Children and Youth. Malaysia is also assisting with provision of education for  Rohingya displaced persons as well as other marginalized groups.
10.4 Madam President, as reported in previous sessions, the Malaysia Education Blueprint 2013-2025 continues to  produce commendable results in our efforts to transform our education system. We also continue to emphasize higher  education quality and training and vocational education and training (TVET) as a game changer for Malaysia’s economy.  With our Eleventh Malaysia Plan spearheaded by the Economy Planning Unit of the Prime Minister’s Department,  Malaysia has mapped the 17 Sustainable Development Goals within the scope of the plan. The economic plan is people- centred, with the ultimate aim of creating a high-income society and an inclusive nation by 2020.
10.5 Madam President, in 2015 and 2016 Malaysia and UNESCO actively partnered and hosted the Asia-Pacific  Conference on Education and Training and the Asia-Pacific Regional Policy Forum on Early Childhood Care and  Education. In 2017, Malaysia achieved another milestone by hosting the first Management of Social Transformations  (MOST) Regional Forum of Ministers of Social Development for the Asia and the Pacific Region in Kuala Lumpur,  Malaysia. The forum was chaired by Her Excellency Rohani Abdul Karim, Minister of Women, Family and Community  Development of Malaysia, serving as President of the MOST Intergovernmental Council (IGC). In the same month  Malaysia also hosted the thirteenth session of the MOST IGC. These are solid testimonies to our serious commitment to  the UNESCO cause, particularly in the Asia and the Pacific region. Actively underscoring our commitment, Malaysia and  the city of Kuala Lumpur intend to bid for the title of UNESCO World Book Capital in 2020. Kuala Lumpur is currently  working with the Ministry of Education to boost reading culture among local communities and nationwide. Malaysia would  also like to commend the working group on governance for having proposed a draft for the deliberations of the General  Conference. We hope that the debates at the General Conference will result in meaningful discussions and that the  results will help in making UNESCO more inclusive and transparent. Madam President, I wish to conclude by noting that  despite efforts made to secure all assessed contributions from Member States the financial position of UNESCO is  critical. Therefore our Organization needs to seek ways of encouraging Member States to pay their contributions on time  as well as a better way of getting Member States to participate in contributing to the extrabudgetary programme. Thank  you, Madam President.   :الرئيسة ١١  .قطر لدولة العايل والتعليم الرتبية وزير احلمادي، الواحد عبد حممد الدكتور سعادة إىل الكلمة أعطي واآلن
(12.1) Mr Al Hammadi (Qatar) (translation from the Arabic):   Your Excellency, President of the General Conference, Your Excellency, Director-General of UNESCO, Excellencies,  ladies and gentlemen, at the outset of my statement, I am pleased to add my voice to that of those who have spoken before  me in congratulating Ms Zohour Alaoui on her election as President of the thirty-ninth session of the General Conference of  UNESCO, and also to congratulate Ms Audrey Azoulay on her nomination as Director-General of UNESCO, and to wish her  every success in her task.
(12.2) Allow me to begin my statement by shedding light on the main aspects of the unjust embargo to which my country has  been subject since 5 June this year. That embargo has created a dangerous psychological and social rift in the edifice of Gulf  society, and inflicted educational and psychological losses on Qatari students studying in schools and universities of the  embargo countries, which, through their inhuman procedures and arbitrary decisions against Qatar have violated all possible  human rights customs, principles and instruments, including the right to education: those violations have meant that hundreds  of Qatari students have not been able to complete their end-of-year examinations and have been prevented from receiving  their graduation diplomas or any documents certifying their years of study, and their education accounts have been closed.  The humanitarian violations stemming from the embargo against Qatar on flimsy grounds and incomplete claims completely  without genuine justification have deeply affected and hurt the spirits of the citizens and residents of Qatar. Their lives have  been turned completely upside down in all possible respects. The embargo has caused the dislocation of thousands of  families, violated the rights of freedom of education, movement, work, residence, ownership and freedom of opinion, and
134  prevented people from performing religious duties such as the Hajj pilgrimage or the Umra. Despite all the dictates, violations  and threats to its internal sovereignty endured by Qatar, it has faced this escalation by the embargo countries with attempts to  calm matters and to seek dialogue, thanks to its observance of its own commitments and of regional and international  instruments.
(12.3) Dear colleagues, this unjust embargo makes it incumbent on me here to take a look at a number of important issues  concerning the role and objectives of UNESCO in preserving global peace. The words of His Highness Sheikh Tamim bin  Hamad Al Thani, Prince of Qatar, in his statement to the United Nations General Assembly at its seventy-second session last  September, directly concern the spheres of competence and tasks of UNESCO, especially with regard to mutual respect  among countries and non-interference in their internal affairs, in addition to seeking to use peaceful methods for the settlement  of conflicts, which is what Qatar does and has urged from the beginning of the embargo by its neighbouring countries until the  present.
(12.4) Ladies and gentlemen, we have considered the programmes and projects proposed for UNESCO’s budget for 2018-
2019. We emphasize their importance and their congruence with Qatar’s action in the fields of education, science, culture and  communication, especially the programmes on teacher training, support for learning opportunities for children in crisis and  conflict zones, protection for all forms of cultural expression, production and distribution of science and technology materials in  order to achieve comprehensive development for all. We in Qatar have made great progress on the way to achieving  Sustainable Development Goal (SDG) 4. Since world leaders agreed on the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development at the  United Nations, we proceeded to establish our National Committee for Education for All to monitor implementation of SDG 4,  to be geared to our country’s development goals. That is apparent in our country’s concern to enable all students to receive  good-quality education at all levels.
(12.5) Ladies and gentlemen, despite the fact that it is busy building its education system and promoting its educational  renaissance, Qatar has not forgotten to lend a helping hand to all international efforts for assistance in implementing  educational and humanitarian programmes and projects in fraternal and friendly countries, especially those suffering from  wars, conflicts and natural disasters. Qatar has launched numerous initiatives in this field. It has also endeavoured to combat  terrorism and to dry its wellsprings by providing education to 7 million children worldwide in a bid to prevent them from  becoming prey to ignorance and extremist thinking. In this connection, I should like to commend the efforts of Her Highness  Sheikha Moza bint Nasser, Special Envoy for Basic and Higher Education for UNESCO in supporting UNESCO’s activities and  programmes relating to education, including the recently signed agreement for the implementation of the project “Teacher in  Pakistan” aimed at reaching 100,000 students at a cost of $13 million.
(12.6) Ladies and gentlemen, I am bound to express to Her Excellency, Ms Irina Bokova, my sincere thanks for her great  efforts during her term of office in managing this venerable Organization. She shouldered a great task and discharged it in  optimum fashion, in sincere cooperation with top world experts in education and culture. I end my statement by wishing the  General Conference every success in its noble task, trusting that UNESCO may always remain a living symbol of constructive  international cooperation among all forces for good in the world. Thank you for your attention.   :الرئيسة ١٣  واآلن سأعطي الكلمة إىل سعادة السيد حممد األمني ولد الشيخ، وزير الثقافة والصناعة التقليدية يف موريتانيا. .معايل الوزير شكراً
(14.1) Mr Ould Cheikh (Mauritania) (translation from the Arabic):   Bismillāh ir-raḥmān ir-raḥīm (In the name of God the Merciful, the Compassionate). Madam President, Mr Chairperson  of the Executive Board, Excellencies ministers and heads of delegations, Excellencies ambassadors of Member States, dear  experts and participants, to begin with, please allow me to congratulate the President on her election as President of the 39th  session of the General Conference. I also congratulate the new Director-General on her election at the head of the  Organization, as well as the Director-General, whose term of office is now ending, on her outstanding work during that period. I  should also like to express to you my great happiness at being here in the hall of our venerable Organization, UNESCO, the  symbol of the unity of human intellect in wonderful harmony with the rich diversity of world cultures, and which embodies  human fraternity on earth. The Organization’s purpose has been to perform its generous mission of spreading love, peace and  knowledge among all humankind ever since it was founded 70 years ago. Its excellent work teams and the efforts of its  Member States have disseminated overall wellbeing to all corners of the globe, building hope in shaken souls, illuminating  hesitant minds, defending cultures in jeopardy, and preserving cultural diversity among peoples in their way of life. It is indeed  a noble mission which is most deserving of the commendable efforts you have been exerting, especially nowadays, when  numerous cultures and peoples suffer the pains of war, deep-seated conflicts, and oppression, all because of a refusal to  accept the Other.
(14.2) Madam President, dear colleagues, Mauritania pursues a general policy aimed at raising the standing of human  beings and honouring them by means of integrated programmes which guarantee the enjoyment of individual and collective  public freedoms. Mauritania also works to encourage growth, combat poverty, broaden the national productive base, and  strengthen the country’s infrastructure, especially in the fields of culture, youth and education, which is conducive to social  stability and peace, and helps the country to make civilian and political achievements and to serve the rising generations of  youth.
(14.3) Madam President, dear colleagues, our country today, as in the past, serves as a bridge between civilizations and  human cultures in Western Africa between North Africa and the countries of sub-Saharan Africa. We have thus created a vital  space in which we have disseminated positive values of tolerance, peace and generosity among peoples of the region. We  were among the first to strengthen our Arab-African Islamic and international identity by means of a system of values  established by our Islamic scholars and our writers and intellectuals by ensuring that just causes are victorious, disputes are  settled, crises are addressed, and the middle ground is encouraged.
(14.4) Madam President, dear colleagues, on the basis of our conviction of the pivotal role played by culture in sustainable  development, Mauritania has adopted an ambitious cultural reform aimed at protecting the national cultural identity on the one  hand, and ensuring coherence between all its components on the other. Culture will also be made a pole of development  which provides job opportunities and income to workers in the field of culture in small towns and the countryside. To that end,  we have proclaimed a public policy on culture, with a complete revision of the legal system and a complete revision of the  institutional framework for culture so as to ensure the necessary supervision of various cultural activities and effective training  for managers and technicians working in cultural industries, to establish cultural spaces with a view to bringing culture closer to  the public, and to create a cultural nursery where young people may seek refuge from the influence of extremist, fanatical and  criminal circles. We will also create a space for the cross-pollination of local cultures, to be merged as in a melting pot, and  launch a national programme for the development of towns and archaeological sites and the execution of major projects aimed  at protecting various components of our cultural heritage and at achieving tangible development with respect to the  performance of cultural activities at the local, national and international levels.
(14.5) Madam President, dear colleagues, in the field of education, our country has allocated significant resources to the  building of schools, and the development of training and adult literacy, especially for the categories of woman and socially  fragile groups. Our country has taken significant practical steps in the field of information by liberalizing the audiovisual space  and enacting laws for the protection of journalists, which has enabled it to come tops among countries of the region with  regard to freedom of information over the past four years. We have adopted an integrated strategy for the preservation of the  environment and the natural heritage. We are striving to implement programmes to combat desertification. In this connection,  our country has hosted the headquarters of the Great Green Wall Agency. This demonstrates Mauritania’s determination and  commitment to combating desertification and preserving the environment. Our country reiterates its support for UNESCO’s  efforts to bolster humanitarian communities by developing education, culture and science. It applauds UNESCO’s opposition  to the removal of Islamic, Christian and humanitarian landmarks from Jerusalem and its determination to protect Palestinian
136  sites, given that they are part of the human heritage of the whole world. I thank you. As-salāmu ‘alaikum wa-raḥmat Allāhi wa- barakātuh “Peace and the Mercy and Blessings of God be upon you”.
15. La Présidente :   Shukran. Je voudrais à présent donner la parole à S. E. M. Serigne Mbaye Thiam, Ministre de l’éducation  nationale du Sénégal.
16.1 M. Thiam (Sénégal) :   Madame la Présidente de la Conférence générale, Monsieur le Président du Conseil exécutif, Mesdames  Messieurs les ministres et chefs de délégation, Madame la Directrice générale, Mesdames, Messieurs. Madame la  Présidente, tout en vous adressant mes félicitations pour votre élection à la tête de notre Conférence générale, je  remercie aussi votre prédécesseur pour le travail accompli durant son mandat. Je félicite également le Président du  Conseil exécutif et exprime notre gratitude à Mme Irina Bokova, Directrice générale sortante, pour sa contribution  inestimable au rayonnement de notre Organisation. À Mme Audrey Azoulay, qui prendra bientôt sa suite, j’exprime, par  anticipation, nos vœux de succès.
16.2 En raison des développements récents qui affectent sa composition, de grands défis se profilent à l’horizon pour  notre Organisation, la mettant ainsi à nouveau à la croisée des chemins. Le Sénégal est convaincu que c’est le moment,  pour tous ceux qui croient aux idéaux qui nous rassemblent ici depuis 72 ans, de poursuivre avec foi et vigueur notre  marche résolue et solidaire. Nous devons continuer nos efforts en faveur du multilatéralisme comme facteur de paix et  relais indispensable du dialogue des civilisations. C’est la raison d’être principale de l’UNESCO.
16.3 Je me réjouis de constater que plusieurs orientations du prochain exercice biennal correspondent aux priorités  actuelles du Sénégal. Ainsi en est-il de l’éducation. Ma délégation se félicite du contenu du grand programme I visant à  atteindre l’ambitieux ODD 4 et les autres ODD liés à l’éducation. Le Sénégal investit considérablement dans le secteur  de l’éducation. Plus de 25 % de notre budget national, soit près de 7 % du PIB, est consacré à ce secteur, dépassant  ainsi la recommandation de 20 % préconisée dans l’agenda Éducation 2030. Le cadre de mise en œuvre de ce  volontarisme politique en faveur de l’éducation est le programme sectoriel désigné par l’acronyme PAQUET (Programme  d’amélioration de la qualité, de l’équité et de la transparence). Le PAQUET vise à promouvoir une école pour tous, une  école de qualité, une école viable, stable et pacifiée. Les Concertations et Assises nationales, organisées en 2013 et
2014 dans le secteur de l’éducation et de la formation, ont permis de mobiliser tous les acteurs et partenaires du  système éducatif autour des objectifs du PAQUET, financé à hauteur de 80 % par des ressources domestiques. Mais en  dépit de tous ces efforts, les besoins de financement en matière d’éducation restent énormes et difficiles à soutenir. Je  tiens à saluer ici la contribution précieuse du Partenariat mondial pour l’éducation. Voilà pourquoi le Sénégal estime que  ce Partenariat mérite, en retour, un soutien conséquent afin de poursuivre ses activités en tant que seul fonds mondial  dédié à l’éducation. C’est dans cet esprit qu’avec le co-parrainage de la France, le Sénégal accueillera, le 2 février 2018,  la troisième Conférence de financement du Partenariat mondial autour du thème « Bâtir l’avenir ». Je convie tous les  pays membres de l’UNESCO à ce rendez-vous de Dakar. Au Sénégal, nous restons convaincus que la bataille de  l’éducation est la mère de toutes les batailles. Lorsqu’elle est perdue, il est illusoire de s’engager sur d’autres fronts, tout  simplement parce qu’il n’y aura pas de ressources humaines aptes à mener les autres combats. C’est cette conviction  qui a incité le Président Macky Sall à instaurer le Grand Prix du Chef de l’État pour l’enseignant, dont la finalité est de  reconnaitre et de valoriser le métier d’enseignant. C’est aussi pourquoi le Sénégal est d’avis qu’une éducation de qualité  pour tous appelle une alphabétisation et un apprentissage tout au long de la vie, une formation technique et  professionnelle ouverte sur le marché du travail, un enseignement supérieur orienté vers les STEM.
16.4 S’agissant de la culture, le Sénégal adhère aux grandes priorités biennales déclinées dans le programme.  J’insiste particulièrement sur l’importance que notre pays accorde à la diversité culturelle. À travers les âges et  aujourd’hui encore, bien des tragédies humaines naissent du mépris culturel au sein des États ou entre eux.  L’acceptation de la diversité culturelle et civilisationnelle est une condition sine qua non de la paix. L’UNESCO doit en  rester la gardienne vigilante. C’est pourquoi, relayant l’appel du Président Macky Sall à la 72e session de l’Assemblée  générale des Nations Unies, ma délégation reste plus que jamais attachée au devoir de respecter et de protéger les  droits de toutes les minorités.
16.5 Dans le domaine des sciences exactes et naturelles, le Sénégal approuve le programme en faveur du  renforcement des institutions et des réseaux en Afrique et de la résilience face aux changements climatiques. Ma  délégation soutient la priorité accordée aux activités de renforcement des systèmes scientifiques, technologiques et  d’innovation (STI).
16.6 Le Sénégal appuie également toutes les initiatives de l’UNESCO relatives à l’éthique, au dialogue interculturel, à  la promotion des droits humains, à la jeunesse et au sport, ainsi qu’aux groupes vulnérables. En tant que pays de longue  tradition démocratique, le Sénégal soutient toute action et toute stratégie visant la promotion de la liberté d’expression.  Mesdames, Messieurs, je souhaite plein succès à nos travaux et vous remercie de votre écoute attentive.
17. La Présidente :   Merci, Excellence. Je voudrais maintenant donner la parole à S. E. M. Henry Rabary-Njaka, Ministre des affaires  étrangères de Madagascar.
18.1 M. Rabary-Njaka (Madagascar) :  Madame la Présidente de la Conférence générale, Monsieur le Président du Conseil exécutif, Mesdames et  Messieurs les chefs de délégation, Madame la Directrice générale de l’UNESCO, Mesdames et Messieurs, permettez- moi tout d’abord de féliciter, au nom du Gouvernement de Madagascar, Madame Zohour Alaoui, pour son élection à la  Présidence de la Conférence générale de l’UNESCO. Nous lui souhaitons plein succès dans ses fonctions et lui  assurons notre total soutien et appui. Je vous prie également de me permettre de rendre hommage à Madame Irina
137  Bokova, première femme à occuper le poste de Directeur général de l’UNESCO, qui a, au demeurant, réalisé un  parcours brillant à la tête de notre Organisation, ce dont nous la félicitons vivement. Nous lui adressons ici nos vœux les  plus sincères de réussite et de succès dans ses projets futurs.
18.2 Madame la Présidente, notre Organisation est à la croisée des chemins. Elle traverse une crise qui nous  interpelle et qui nous amène à dire que la pérennité de l’UNESCO, acteur majeur du multilatéralisme, est plus que  jamais une nécessité. Notre Organisation doit être soutenue par nous tous et Madagascar lui réaffirme aujourd’hui tout  son soutien. Les objectifs de l’UNESCO ont une importance fondamentale dans un monde globalisé où les  interconnexions, les métissages et la diversité sont autant de chances de construire la paix dans l’esprit des femmes et  des hommes. Le rôle de l’UNESCO pour une paix durable et un développement équitable et durable est incontournable.  Nous nous réjouissons tous ainsi de ce que cette 39e Conférence générale puisse adopter son programme et son  budget, élire les membres du Conseil exécutif, entériner la nomination de Mme Audrey Azoulay, nouvelle Directrice  générale qui succèdera à Mme Irina Bokova. Oui, notre Organisation est bien là, elle est présente dans le concert des  nations, le multilatéralisme, et c’est heureux. Et cette crise a finalement ceci de salutaire qu’elle nous oblige à trouver  des financements et des partenariats innovants. Nous tous ici devons mutualiser nos forces pour contribuer activement  et de façon homogène à la réalisation des Objectifs de développement durable avec l’UNESCO.
18.3 Madame la Présidente, Madagascar s’inscrit parfaitement dans cette lignée selon laquelle le développement  consiste d’abord à mettre en place une société du vivre-ensemble harmonieuse, dans le respect de la diversité.  L’éducation est un élément-clé dans le processus de développement. Ainsi, le Gouvernement de Madagascar a engagé,  avec le soutien de l’UNESCO, une réforme du secteur de l’éducation et en a fait une priorité dans sa politique nationale  pour le développement. Cette réforme est consacrée dans le nouveau Plan sectoriel de l’éducation, ou PSE, qui a été  conçu par les trois ministères malgaches en charge de l’éducation. Notre pays est en train de se doter d’un système  éducatif performant et équitable, accessible à tous. De larges consultations nationales ont permis de poser les grands  axes stratégiques. Le Gouvernement de Madagascar redit sa gratitude à l’endroit de l’UNESCO pour son appui sans  faille au secteur de l’éducation. Citons ici le programme de l’UNESCO relatif à la formation des enseignants dont les  résultats les plus marquants sont la conception de « la mallette mathématique » et la formation de 2 300 enseignants, ou  encore le programme CapED, soutenu particulièrement par le Président de la République Hery Rajaonarimampianina,  qui a abouti à l’élaboration de la Politique nationale de l’emploi et de la formation professionnelle (PNEFP), qui s’est  traduite, cette année, par la formation de plus de 2 500 jeunes ruraux déscolarisés.
18.4 Madame la Présidente, Madagascar est également consciente du rôle central de la culture dans la réalisation  des Objectifs de développement durable. Nous sommes fiers de figurer parmi les pays sur le point d’adhérer à toutes les  conventions culturelles de l’UNESCO. Des chantiers importants sont également en cours sur le plan culturel : la  réactualisation de la politique culturelle nationale ou encore le programme de restauration de l’un de nos monuments  historiques et emblématiques, le Palais de Manjakamiadana, appelé aussi Palais de la Reine, dans le cadre d’un  programme d’appui de l’UNESCO financé par le Gouvernement japonais.
18.5 Madame la Présidente, Madagascar représente 5 300 km de côtes, 217 000 km2 de plateau continental,
1 140 000 km2 de zone économique exclusive. Madagascar soutient la proposition de la Commission océanographique  intergouvernementale (COI) en faveur d’une décennie internationale des sciences océaniques pour le développement  durable de 2021-2030. Dans le domaine de l’eau, l’éco-hydrologie représente un des défis de notre Gouvernement.  Nous nous engageons à poursuivre nos efforts pour mettre en œuvre des projets dans l’objectif d’un monde durable.  Dans le cadre de la mise en œuvre du Plan d’action de Lima, notre Gouvernement est favorable à la mise en place d’un  fonds pérenne pour les réserves de biosphère.
18.6 Madame la Présidente, 64 % de notre population a moins de 25 ans. La protection de la jeunesse constitue pour  nous un défi majeur. Le Gouvernement malgache a adopté en 2016 le Plan national de la jeunesse, destiné à faire des  jeunes des acteurs directs du développement.
18.7 Consciente, par ailleurs, que le sport rassemble les populations et contribue à la consolidation de la paix et à la  réalisation des ODD, Madagascar a décidé d’accueillir la Conférence africaine sur la mise en œuvre du Plan d’action de  Kazan en 2018, et je convie ici tous les pays membres de l’UNESCO à venir à Antananarivo pour assister à cette grande  Conférence africaine.
18.8 En conclusion, je tiens à vous assurer que la République de Madagascar s’engage à poursuivre tous les efforts  déjà entrepris et à agir activement au sein de notre Organisation. C’est pourquoi, Madagascar est candidate pour faire  partie du Conseil exécutif de l’UNESCO, du Conseil intergouvernemental du Programme MOST et du Comité  intergouvernemental de sauvegarde du patrimoine culturel immatériel. Permettez-moi de conclure mon allocution en  souhaitant à Madame Audrey Azoulay plein succès dans ses hautes fonctions de Directrice générale de l’UNESCO tout  en lui assurant l’entier soutien du Gouvernement de Madagascar. Il faut le dire, cette année a été pour l’UNESCO  l’année de la femme. Une grande dame s’en va, une autre grande dame vient continuer l’œuvre. Et par ailleurs, à la tête  de notre Conférence générale, une autre grande dame, une femme arabe, met en œuvre les valeurs de l’UNESCO,  riche de sa diversité. Je vous remercie de votre attention.
19. La Présidente :   Merci, Monsieur le Ministre, pour vos mots si aimables. Maintenant, je donne la parole à S. E. Mme Liana  Ruokyte-Jonsson, Ministre de la culture de Lituanie.
20.1 Ms Ruokyte-Jonsson (Lithuania):   Madam President of the General Conference, Madam Director-General, Excellencies, ladies and gentlemen,  UNESCO has always been an indispensable part of the United Nations system, a fundamental element in the
138  international architecture of organizations that provide us with a platform to address the global challenges that we face  today. It is absolutely vital to reaffirm our commitment to the shared principles of global collaboration and dialogue and  work together to solve the problems that we meet along the way. At the same time, and especially at a time of rising  regional tensions, it is important to remember that global issues cannot be reduced to national agendas. Global problems  need global solutions and in this regard UNESCO has played, and is still playing, a very important role. I would like to  use this opportunity to thank the Director-General, Ms Irina Bokova, for her efforts and determination while leading  UNESCO.
20.2 Ladies and gentlemen, UNESCO has been a steady and consistent force in paving the way for a free flow of  ideas. Only two years ago we proclaimed the International Day for Universal Access to Information, and since then its  cause has rallied many determined partners, including Lithuania. A coherent narrative on the importance of access to  information as a powerful enabler to achieve the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) has been emerging:  unhindered access to information and communication empowers people, be it by providing them with more choice and  opportunities or by keeping their governments accountable. Media actors, in particular journalists, are natural partners of  our Organization in empowering individuals by way of promoting their rights, most notably freedom of expression. We  need to make sure that journalists are free and safe to carry out their mission, which is vital in this globally connected  world.
20.3 Lithuania condemns prevailing violations of international commitments throughout the world. Since 2014 we  have been witnessing a deteriorating human rights situation in Crimea (Ukraine), including in the fields of competence of  our Organization. Therefore, Lithuania recognizes the importance of UNESCO’s active and direct involvement in solving  the relevant challenges. For its part, Lithuania continues to work on the implementation of the 1972 World Heritage  Convention   and the 2003 Convention for the Safeguarding of the Intangible Cultural Heritage, which lie at the heart of  the Organization and cover both the fields of culture and tangible and intangible cultural heritage. We remain committed  to the importance of safeguarding and transmitting cultural heritage to the generations to come.
20.4 UNESCO continues to face great challenges because of its unsustainable financial situation. Lithuania strongly  supports efforts to improve UNESCO, both here in Paris and across the field offices. There is still a need for more  transparent, efficient and accountable programme delivery. Strong and skilled leadership of the Organization is  indispensable. In this regard, Lithuania places its trust in the nominated Director-General, Ms Audrey Azoulay, and  remains determined to work jointly to contribute to our shared future. Thank you for your attention.
21. La Présidente :   Thank you, Minister. Je voudrais donner la parole à S. E. M. Hang Chuon Naron, Ministre de l’éducation, de la  jeunesse et des sports du Cambodge.
22.1 Mr Hang (Cambodia):   Madam President of the General Conference, Madam Director-General of UNESCO, Excellencies, ladies and  gentlemen, it is my pleasure to congratulate the Director-General of UNESCO for her report and the draft programme  and budget for 2018-2021 (39 C/5) submitted to us and to share with you the efforts of the Government of Cambodia  during the last two years under the leadership of the Prime Minister Samdech Techo Hun Sen.
22.2 In response to many global challenges, ranging from climate change to global terrorism, the Government of  Cambodia, together with its development partners, is implementing ambitious education reforms to ensure that our young  people are ready and can contribute to a sustainable future. The onset of the fourth industrial revolution is increasing  competition and opportunities more than ever before. We are therefore continuously working to improve the quality of  education for the acquisition of knowledge and hard and soft skills, commitment to social justice, environmental  protection and sustainable development, as well as to ensure good global citizens who respect and value diversity and  are willing to make the world a more equitable and sustainable place.
22.3 With increasing government investment in education, the reform initiatives launched four years ago on  examinations, teachers, school inspection, learning assessment and curriculum revision are showing excellent results.  Cambodia is fully committed to Sustainable Development Goal 4 by integrating it into the national Education Strategic  Plan and preparing the Education 2030 roadmap. We are striving towards improved provision of early childhood  education, equitable quality primary and secondary education and a greater supply of well-trained teachers, leading to  relevant and effective learning outcomes. We are committed to fostering national and global citizenship among  Cambodian learners.
22.4 In the field of natural science Cambodia has introduced the new Environment and Natural Resources Code to  strengthen the legal and policy framework in terms of environmental protection, conservation and climate change  adaptation and mitigation. With the support of UNESCO we are celebrating the 20th anniversary of the Tonle Sap  Biosphere Reserve and strongly hope that we will be able to nominate the Cardamom Mountains as the second  biosphere reserve in Cambodia.   (The speaker continues in French)
22.5 Excellences, Mesdames et Messieurs, le Gouvernement royal du Cambodge se félicite de l’assistance prêtée  par l’UNESCO pour la préservation des archives du régime khmer rouge du site de Tuol Sleng, dans le cadre du  Programme « Mémoire du monde ». L’accès à l’information constitue l’autre aspect majeur de la collaboration entre le  Cambodge et l’UNESCO en matière d’information et de communication. Cette collaboration porte sur l’élaboration d’un  projet de loi sur l’accès à l’information.
22.6 Le Cambodge salue les efforts déployés par l’UNESCO pour aider les pays membres dans le domaine de la  culture. Le Cambodge souhaite vivement remercier le Comité du patrimoine mondial d’avoir soutenu et inscrit sur la Liste  du patrimoine mondial, en juillet dernier, à Cracovie, « la Zone des temples de Sambor Prei Kuk », un site préangkorien  du VIIe siècle appartenant à la capitale d’un des premiers grands empires de l’Asie du Sud-Est. Le Gouvernement royal  du Cambodge souhaite également exprimer ses remerciements à la France, au Japon, à l’Inde et à la Chine – qui  œuvrent en tant que co-présidents – ainsi qu’à l’UNESCO, quant au bon fonctionnement des deux comités  internationaux de coordination, celui du site d’Angkor et celui du Temple de Preah Vihear. Dans le domaine du  patrimoine immatériel, le Gouvernement royal se félicite également de l’inscription sur la Liste du patrimoine immatériel  du chapei Dang Veng et remercie chaleureusement le Comité pour le financement alloué à la mise en œuvre du plan de  sauvegarde. Le Cambodge souhaite également féliciter la Directrice générale pour avoir dénoncé sans relâche les  destructions les plus abjectes du patrimoine culturel du Moyen-Orient, avoir soutenu sans réserve l’initiative  #UnisPourLePatrimoine et avoir appelé de ses vœux le renforcement du Secrétariat des conventions de 1970 et de
1954, dont le Cambodge est fier d’assumer actuellement la Présidence.
22.7 Enfin, Madame la Directrice générale, le Gouvernement royal du Cambodge ne peut terminer ce discours de  politique générale sans vous exprimer ses remerciements les plus chaleureux pour votre soutien indéfectible au  Cambodge et son admiration pour avoir traversé avec la plus grande dignité les difficultés de notre Organisation, en  réussissant néanmoins à la réformer pour qu’elle puisse incarner un nouvel humanisme pour le XXIe siècle. Je vous  remercie pour votre aimable attention.
23. La Présidente :   Merci, Monsieur le Ministre. Et maintenant j’appelle S. E. M. Aboubakar Moukadas Noure, Ministre de  l’enseignement primaire, secondaire, technique et de l’alphabétisation de la République centrafricaine.
24.1 M. Noure (République centrafricaine) :  Madame la Présidente de la Conférence générale, Monsieur le Président du Conseil exécutif, Madame la  Directrice générale de l’UNESCO, Mesdames et Messieurs les ministres et chefs de délégations, honorables délégués et  observateurs, Mesdames et Messieurs, c’est pour moi un réel plaisir et un grand honneur de vous présenter, Madame la  Présidente, au nom de la République centrafricaine et de la délégation que je conduis, mes vifs compliments pour la  confiance que les États membres ici présents vous ont accordée en vous portant à la présidence des travaux de cette  session. Qu’il me soit permis d’adresser à la Directrice générale de l’UNESCO, Madame Irina Bokova, au nom du  Président de la République centrafricaine et du Gouvernement, le témoignage de notre gratitude et de notre  reconnaissance pour l’attention particulière et constante que l’Organisation accorde à mon pays par le biais d’actions  multiformes, aux fins de redynamiser le système éducatif, d’une part, et de consolider la paix, d’autre part, après plus de  deux décennies tumultueuses et sombres de son histoire.
24.2 Madame la Présidente, honorables délégués, nous percevons aujourd’hui avec plus d’acuité l’actualité de notre  Acte constitutif, qui assigne à l’UNESCO la mission de « contribuer au maintien de la paix et de la sécurité en resserrant,  par l’éducation, la science et la culture, la collaboration entre nations ». C’est forts de cette solidarité intellectuelle que  nous devons bâtir notre monde et préserver les générations futures du fléau de la guerre, car on assiste en ce début de  XXIe siècle à une recrudescence des conflits entre nations, des combats au sein des nations, à des violences contre  l’être humain et sa dignité, ainsi qu’à des conflits entre les cultures, entre les générations, à des injustices et à des  phénomènes d’exclusion intolérables. Comme nous le constatons, l’Afrique est malheureusement à ce jour en tête de  peloton de ces multiples problèmes. C’est pourquoi mon pays, la République centrafricaine, qui sort lentement des  conséquences du coup d’État du 24 mars 2013, ayant déjà conduit à trois changements politiques, renoue avec le  concert des nations démocratiques grâce à l’élection de Son Excellence, le Professeur Faustin-Archange Touadéra,  comme Président de la République et Chef de l’État. Dans le cadre de sa politique de dialogue pour une véritable  cohésion sociale, le Chef de l’État déploie ses efforts à travers le programme de démobilisation, désarmement,  réinsertion et rapatriement (DDRR) visant à pacifier entièrement le pays, dont une large partie est encore en proie,  malheureusement, à l’insécurité résultant des actions d’hostilité de certaines bandes armées non-conventionnelles, qui  terrorisent et violentent la population civile, occasionnant ainsi des vagues de réfugiés et de personnes déplacées.  Malgré les efforts du Gouvernement de mon pays, qui travaille de concert avec les forces armées de la MINUSCA et  l’EUTM, la paix sociale est encore fragilisée par les exactions et les attaques répétées également orchestrées par les  rebelles de l’Armée de résistance du Seigneur (LRA) de Joseph Kony. C’est pourquoi, afin de consolider les acquis  démocratiques et la paix, l’appui de la communauté internationale est-il plus que jamais sollicité pour éradiquer  définitivement cette culture de violence que mon pays essaie de combattre par ses moyens encore limités, en vue de  réaliser ce qu’énonce l’Acte constitutif de l’UNESCO : « Les guerres prenant naissance dans l’esprit des hommes, c’est  dans l’esprit des hommes que doivent être élevées les défenses de la paix ».
24.3 Madame la Présidente, l’UNESCO et ses États membres doivent assumer la lourde responsabilité morale et  éthique de transmettre aux générations futures une planète en paix avec son passé, son présent et son avenir. Par  ailleurs, la solidarité internationale est sollicitée pour poursuivre les initiatives dans les domaines scientifiques et  technologiques, notamment les sciences de la nature, pour mettre en valeur les immenses ressources naturelles du  pays grâce à une exploitation rationnelle aux fins d’un développement durable de la République centrafricaine. Dans le  domaine de la communication, le Gouvernement a mis un accent particulier sur la promotion de la presse, tant publique  que privée. À ce titre, il apprécie à sa juste valeur l’appui multiforme de l’UNESCO dans ce domaine. Enfin, Madame la  Présidente, honorables délégués, Mesdames et Messieurs, je ne saurais terminer mes propos sans réaffirmer, au nom  du Gouvernement de mon pays, l’attachement de la République centrafricaine aux idéaux de l’UNESCO. Je vous  remercie de votre aimable attention.
25. La Présidente :   Merci, Monsieur le Ministre. Je voudrais maintenant donner la parole à S. E. M. Alejandro Finocchiaro, Ministre  de l’éducation et des sports d’Argentine.
(26.1) Mr Finocchiaro (Argentina) (translation from the Spanish):   Madam President, Madam Director-General, Excellencies, ladies and gentlemen, it is a great honour for me to be here  today, at the 39th session of the General Conference of UNESCO, representing the Argentine Republic. We live in a time of  major global transformations, which are increasingly profound and rapid. This poses a constant challenge for us to adapt to the  acceleration of the technological revolution and increasing global interdependence. When building the modern international  order, we should not lose sight of the principles that have guided us from this Organization, and that must continue to guide us  in building peace in the minds of all the inhabitants of our planet. To achieve this goal, we have at our disposal the most  powerful tools: education, intercultural understanding, scientific cooperation and the freedom of expression. Crucially, we have
141  the transformative power of education, which must be inclusive, quality and lifelong, as a fundamental human right that  ensures access to other rights and is an essential prerequisite for development.
(26.2) The Argentine Republic upholds the strategic importance of education for the fulfilment of the
2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development as a whole. In the same way, in the 2030 Agenda, Sustainable Development Goal  (SDG) 4 is the key to achieving the other goals. That is why SDG 4 must be at the heart of the global agenda: it is the  transformative force that will make citizens active players and committed agents of change. This is the message that Argentina  brings to UNESCO, particularly through its active participation in the SDG 4-Education 2030 Steering Committee. Our country  is continuing its efforts to prioritize the debate on education. In January 2017, we held the first Regional Meeting of Education  Ministers of Latin America and the Caribbean, which resulted in the Buenos Aires Declaration, expressing our priorities. We  can also confirm that in 2018, for the very first time, Argentina will host the G20 Education Ministerial Meeting. We trust that  we will be able to work together with countries, international organizations and civil society to catalyse specific agreements  that will enable us to implement the 2030 Agenda through our decisive action in key areas, such as skills for life and future  employment, innovation, the central role of teachers and citizenship for sustainable development. This is President Macri’s  vision for education in Argentina that we seek to accomplish.
(26.3) We want to build an Argentina that has a fairer social structure, with equal opportunities and possibilities. We aim to  achieve our targets by 2030, when those who are currently starting their schooling will be graduating. We are improving the  State’s capacity to design and implement educational policies. In early education, we wish to improve enrolment, retention and  departure of students through quality teaching and learning processes. To do so, we are carrying out a plan to build the  facilities necessary for the schooling of children from the age of three. We are seeking to reduce the digital divide and improve  the digital literacy of pupils from primary school upwards. Secondary school must be transformed, and we must focus on its  organization. This implies fostering learning through interdisciplinary projects, teamwork and educational practices providing  work experience and entrepreneurship education. Dropout prevention is also crucial. We are developing public policies to take  action in that regard. The “National Plan for Unintended Teenage Pregnancies” has taken on special importance. Education  systems that deliver quality education focus on the strengthening of teachers as the main driver of change. Consequently, we  are launching a plan to improve teacher training. Bearing in mind the complexity of education and the various dimensions of  institutional life, we have created a national mechanism to evaluate the different learning systems. We are also proposing  alternatives to university through professional training programmes that address the demands of the labour market. We are  working to build bridges between secondary education and higher education.
(26.4) Education accompanies us throughout our lives. It flows through us. It is a source of freedom. It gives us the ability to  choose. It generates opportunities and enables us to be the protagonists of transformation and not mere spectators. Today,  true inclusion depends on access to knowledge. Argentina is a country that has always opened its doors to migrant men and  women seeking a better life. There is a different part of the world in each corner of my country; we are an open society that is  enriched by diversity in a world increasingly leaning towards fragmentation. We are together on this planet, and it is together  that we must care for it and live together in peace.
(26.5) Allow me to thank you, Madam Director-General, for your commitment and leadership during the eight years you  headed our Organization. Your legacy during troubled times is noteworthy. The Argentine Government welcomes the decision  of the Executive Board of UNESCO to propose to the General Conference the nomination of the French candidate,  Ms Azoulay, as the new Director-General of the Organization. Argentina expresses its full readiness to work together to  strengthen the Organization and preserve its mandate. Joining together and working collectively strengthens us. Let us  continue to build bridges. You can rely on Argentina. Thank you very much.  Mr Al-Mullakhalaf (Iraq) takes the Chair
27. The President:   Muchas gracias. I now invite His Excellency, Mr George Kronnisanyon Werner, Minister of Education of Liberia.  You have the floor, Your Excellency.
28.1 Mr Werner (Liberia):   Mr President of the General Conference, Madam Director-General of UNESCO, Mr Chairperson of the  Executive Board, fellow delegates, distinguished ladies and gentlemen, I bring you greetings from Ms Ellen Johnson  Sirleaf, President of the Republic of Liberia and the Government and people of Liberia. On their behalf, I would like to  congratulate Ms Audrey Azoulay on her nomination for Director-General,  and also the new President of the General  Conference and the future Chairperson of the Executive Board. We wish you success in advancing UNESCO’s mission  during your terms of office. Liberia stands firmly beside you.
28.2 As many of you may know, my country is in the midst of a closely contested and peacefully conducted  presidential election. When the new President is inaugurated in January it will mark the first peaceful transfer of power in  more than 70 years. That is no minor achievement, particularly in light of our troubled past. As I prepare to leave office,  this opportunity to update you on our progress and to thank UNESCO for its steadfast support is particularly special for  me. UNESCO has been an invaluable partner as we have worked to rebuild our education sector after the devastating  impact of years of conflict followed by the Ebola crisis. UNESCO has helped us launch our efforts to achieve Sustainable  Development Goal 4 (SDG4), aimed at ensuring inclusive and quality education for all. UNESCO has also provided  crucial guidance to ensure that our education sector plan was fully aligned with SDG 4. UNESCO’s support for the joint  programme to accelerate efforts to advance the rights of adolescent girls Liberia has also made a significant impact. Ms  Azoulay, I was heartened to see education, as a catalyst for development and gender equality, coming first in your vision  for UNESCO. This is an issue that is of great importance for me and that is particularly close to the heart of our current  President, Ellen Johnson Sirleaf. I am confident that our successors will be eager to partner with UNESCO to continue  this effort.
28.3 Bolstered by support from UNESCO and other international partners, Liberia is getting its education system back  on track. We have been working to ensure that all Liberian children have access to free, quality education by focusing on  three crucial areas: improving the quality of teaching, ensuring effective monitoring, and exploring innovative solutions.  Having qualified teachers is an essential element of a good education system. Supported by international donors, we
142  have gone county to county, vetting and testing more than 15,000 teachers across Liberia. We have identified, and  removed from our payroll, 1,900 “ghost teachers”, enabling us to recoup more than $2.5 million in savings per year. This  can now be used to either train existing teachers or hire new qualified and energetic graduates. As we improve the  quality of teaching and management in our schools, it is essential that we effectively measure the impact this is having.  To that end, we are developing a framework for school quality assessment, which will monitor improvement in school  quality from early childhood education up to senior secondary level and enable the provision of objective feedback to  school administrators and teachers. Finally, we are exploring innovative solutions to rapidly accelerate improvements in  school management and teaching quality. One of our most ambitious reforms is a pilot programme called Partnership  Schools for Liberia (PSL). The programme has already demonstrated tremendous potential, with students learning 60%  more than their peers in State schools. While the programme itself has generated international debate, one thing that  tends to be lost is that PSL is not just about improving education in a small number of schools. PSL schools serve as  learning hubs where we can identify effective interventions that can be applied across the school system – and we are  doing just that.
28.4 Much remains to be done, but we have made significant progress over the last couple of years, thanks to the  support of international partners and the dedication of Liberian educators. As I look forward to the end of my term, we are  focused on ensuring that this progress will continue. We have established an education delivery unit as a high- performing team to implement priority reforms and maintain momentum in the administration to come. Finally, before I  close, let me thank the World Heritage Centre, as, with their assistance, we now have a tentative list of sites to submit for  world heritage status. UNESCO is helping us work towards a day when Liberia is known for something more than just  child soldiers and Ebola by bolstering our education system and showing the world our rich cultural heritage. Thank you  very much.   الرئيس: ٢٩  .،واآلن أدعو معايل الدكتور سالم حسن طه خوشناو، وكيل وزير التعليم العايل والبحث العلمي يف مجهورية العراق ليلقي كلمته
(30.1) Mr Khoshnaw (Iraq) (translation from the Arabic):   Bismillāh ir-raḥmān ir-raḥīm (In the name of God the Merciful, the Compassionate). Mr President of the General  Conference, Mr Chairperson of the Executive Board, Madam Director-General of UNESCO, Your Excellencies, heads and  members of delegations, as-salāmu ‘alaikum wa-raḥmat Allāhi wa-barakātuh “Peace and the Mercy and Blessings of God be  upon you”. I am pleased, at the beginning of the work of UNESCO’s General Conference at its thirty-ninth session in 2017, in  Paris, on behalf of His Excellency, the Minister of Education and President of the Iraqi National Commission, to greet you and  to convey to you greetings from His Excellency Fuad Masum, President of Iraq, with his wishes for the success of the General  Conference, and greetings from Dr Haidar al-Abadi, Prime Minister of Iraq. I am also pleased to congratulate Her Excellency,  the President of the General Conference, on the confidence shown in her by the General Conference in electing her President  for the current session.
(30.2) We should like to convey our thanks and appreciation to Ms Irina Bokova for the direct and indirect support she has  given to the educational, cultural and scientific programmes implemented for the benefit of Iraq during her term of office at the  head of the Organization, and for the rebuilding and reform carried out in the field of primary and secondary education and  vocational education, in addition to the achievements made by Iraq in the fields of culture, science and heritage, including the  inscription of the Erbil Citadel and the Ahwar of Southern Iraq on the World Heritage List. She also supported Iraq in its war  against terrorism during the period when the Da’esh terrorist gangs held sway over part of Iraqi territory. Ms Irina Bokova, we  appreciate your great efforts in overcoming obstacles and preserving the pioneering role of UNESCO in its spheres of  competence in order to realize the Organization’s mission, embody its lofty goals, reiterate its unique role in laying the  foundations of lasting peace and sustainable development. We urge you to take the measures proposed under the Draft  Medium-Term Strategy. We hope that the reform efforts may not be at the expense of programmes relating to needy countries  or those in difficult circumstances.
(30.3) Today we announce to the countries of the world in general and the Arab and fraternal countries in particular that Iraq  is rising once again, despite its difficulties and the barbarous attacks against it, to free Mosul, the second-largest city in Iraq,  and to return it to the embrace of the motherland thanks to the help of heroes and the support of our noble brethren and  friends. We appreciate UNESCO’s supportive stand towards Iraq with its project for the prevention of trafficking in smuggled  cultural property. With its sense of responsibility towards the Organization, and despite the current circumstances UNESCO is  traversing, Iraq has paid its assessed contributions to the Organization.
(30.4) The rapidly accelerating events witnessed by the world testify to the need to bolster UNESCO’s role and to spread its  values by disseminating the ideas of justice, equality, dialogue, tolerance, democracy and human rights. UNESCO is always in  need of support from the good of this world and the international community as a whole so that it may perform its mission in  optimum fashion. We all need this pioneering Organization in which all cultures and religions are mingled together, and we  need the path to be charted for the building of societies which reject violence, extremism and hatred, which harbour justice and  respect for human dignity, and in which each individual lives in peace and tolerance. Today we need a type of education which  strengthens our human relations, and inculcates hope for a free and dignified life in increasingly rapid development.
(30.5) Education, dear brothers and sisters, is a project for the building of the human soul, the rejection of vain pleasures,  and the laying of firm foundations for an integrated and sound community, especially following harsh terrorist attacks, by  means of programmes provided by our venerable Organization, such as the sustainable development programme. We are  certain that the world will arise anew with all its educational, cultural and scientific spaces in hopes that good-quality, fair,  inclusive education and life-long learning for all may be provided by 2030.
(30.6) Mr President, Excellencies, ladies and gentlemen attending the General Conference, as you know, Iraq is a founding  Member of UNESCO, having joined in 1948. It has not been a Member of the Executive Board for 25 years. This is why we  appreciate your support for our candidacy to the Executive Board, so as to recover our rightful place among nations.
(30.7) In conclusion, I again offer thanks to UNESCO for the generous support it has offered us. I also beg you to allow me to  congratulate Ms Audrey Azoulay on her nomination as Director-General of UNESCO, and wish her a successful term of office  full of progress – we hope that she may give her best and have every success in this difficult task. Please accept from me love  and affection and pride from Baghdad, the land of Mesopotamia, and our wishes of thanks and appreciation to you all. I should  like to assure you that Iraq is in good health despite the challenges and all the forces of terrorism and conspiracy. As-salāmu  ‘alaikum wa-raḥmat Allāhi wa-barakātuh “Peace and the Mercy and Blessings of God be upon you”.   :الرئيس ١-٣١  .معايل الدكتور سالم حسن طه خوشناو على هذه الكلمات املعربة شكراً
(31.1) The President (translation from the Arabic):   Thank you, Your Excellency, Dr Salam Hasan Taha Khoshnaw, for these eloquent words.  (The President continues in English)
31.2 Now I call on His Excellency Mr Jeffrey Leonard Lloyd, Minister of Education in Bahamas. You have the floor,  Your Excellency.
32.1 Mr Lloyd (Bahamas):   Mr President of the General Conference, Madam Director-General, Honourable Ministers, Excellencies,  distinguished delegates, ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon. I bring greetings and salutations on behalf of Her  Excellency Dame Marguerite Pindling, Governor-General, and the Honourable Hubert A. Minnis, Prime Minister of the  Commonwealth of The Bahamas. I am privileged on their behalf and on behalf of our people to offer congratulations to  Her Excellency Ms Alaoui on her election as President of this most prestigious conference and also to wish the President  of the 38th session of the General Conference every success in his endeavours. Additionally, my Government wishes to  express gratitude to the Director-General, Ms Bokova, who will shortly be leaving office and who, after eight years of  tireless efforts and against all odds, has managed not only to keep UNESCO relevant during these times of turmoil but  continued to successfully advance the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development. Ms Bokova, the Bahamas wishes you  all the best in your future endeavours and we wish now to congratulate Ms Audrey Azoulay on her nomination as  Director-General.
32.2 Mr President, I am honoured to address you for the first time at this 39th session of the General Conference.  The Bahamas fully supports the strategic objectives of the United Nations, especially cognizant that we today live in a  world with ever-changing economic, legislative and political realities. Our country is acutely aware that the 2030 Agenda,  adopted at the 70th session of the United Nations General Assembly, marked a turning point in the history of  international cooperation, thus rendering the principles and objectives of UNESCO more globally important than ever  before.
32.3 During the past three years, the Bahamas have successfully hosted three globally significant UNESCO events.  Firstly, in 2015 we conducted a regional workshop on science, technology and innovation (STI) policy and indicators, in  which visiting Member States participated in developing guidelines for national and regional STI policies, our aim being to  strengthen action towards STI as a key component in sustainable development. In July this year, we hosted the 48th  Annual General Assembly of the Caribbean Broadcasting Union (CBU) in partnership with the Broadcasting Corporation  of The Bahamas. At this meeting, delegates from more than 48 media houses, 23 countries and territories from the  English-, Dutch-, French- and Spanish-speaking Caribbean and South America met to discuss and support the digital  revolution in broadcasting and communications in general and implications for the Caribbean more specifically. Finally, in  September, our country played host to the 12th meeting of National Committees and Focal Points of the International  Hydrological Programme (IHP) of UNESCO in Latin America and the Caribbean, where delegates from over 65 Member  States developed and discussed resolutions for implementing ways to achieve water security for small island developing  States (SIDS). All of these meetings served to reinforce our commitment to implementing the 2030 Agenda.
32.4 Mr President, like other Member States, the Bahamas firmly believes that education is an indispensable element  for achieving sustainable development. Thus, our newly elected Government is working steadily to ensure the right of all  of its citizens and residents to equitable and inclusive education, increasing its alignment with SDG 4. New education  policies are being grounded in progressive educational research and planning, an improved learning environment, an  updated curriculum and education materials, global standards and conditions, and the advancement and development of  educational professions. We are also moving from focusing exclusively on universal primary and secondary education to  those areas that promote lifelong learning, with particular emphasis on early childhood and pre-school education. We  firmly believe that in addition to the basics that were once the cornerstone of a primary school education – namely  literacy, numeracy, oracy and cognitive skills development – we must also ensure the vital inclusion of social and  emotional values in the training of our youngest minds, starting at the earliest stages of human life. To facilitate this  initiative, our Government has mandated the appropriation of technology needed for successful and effective delivery of  education. To this end, we have recently introduced table computers into preschools and primary schools, as global  indicators show that technology and learning in this digital age must become one in the twenty-first century classroom.
32.5 Mr President, another crucial area of focus for our country is technical and vocational education and training  (TVET). In alignment with our national development objectives and UNESCO’s Strategy for Technical and Vocational  Education and Training (TVET), which was adopted by the Executive Board at its 199th session, the Bahamas has  increased financial assistance for students interested in the technical and vocational fields. Madam President, we are  committed to full and constructive participation in the follow-up and review processes of the Education 2030 Agenda. We  will continue to invest the lion’s share of our national budget in education, science and technology as we remain focused  on not only attaining our national educational ambitions but the goals and strategies of SDG 4. Thank you and good  afternoon.
33. The President:   Thank you Excellency for the inspiring words. Now I invite His Excellency, Mr Jean-Pierre Nirua, Minister of  Education and Training in Vanuatu. You have the floor, Your Excellency.
34.1 M. Nirua (Vanuatu) :   Monsieur le Président de la Conférence générale, Monsieur le Président du Conseil exécutif, Madame la  Directrice générale, Excellences, Mesdames et Messieurs les ministres et chers collègues, Excellences, Mesdames et  Messieurs les chefs de délégation, chers invités d’honneur, Mesdames et Messieurs. C’est un grand honneur pour moi  de m’adresser à cette 39e session de la Conférence générale de l’UNESCO au nom du Gouvernement et du peuple de  la République de Vanuatu. Permettez-moi tout d’abord de m’associer aux précédents orateurs et collègues afin de  féliciter S. E. l’Ambassadrice Alaoui pour sa nouvelle fonction de Présidente de la 39e session de la Conférence générale  de l’UNESCO. Ma délégation tient aussi à exprimer ses remerciements au Président de la 38e session de la Conférence
145  générale pour son leadership de qualité, qui s’est manifesté à travers l’exécution concrète des activités de l’UNESCO  durant la période 2015-2017. Tout aussi important, je tiens à rendre hommage à Madame la Directrice générale et à son  équipe pour leur dévouement exceptionnel durant ces huit dernières années à la tête de notre Organisation. Je vous  souhaite bon vent pour vos projets futurs. Ma délégation a pris bonne note du rapport présenté aux États membres lors  de la session d’ouverture de la Conférence générale. Je vous remercie non seulement pour les succès, mais aussi pour  les dossiers complexes dont votre successeur assumera la charge. En outre, je tiens à remercier la Conférence générale  d’accueillir favorablement et à l’unanimité la Nouvelle-Calédonie comme nouveau Membre associé, et leur souhaite la  bienvenue. Je ne cacherai pas la joie et l’émotion de mon pays suite à cette nouvelle admission, car en tant que pays  voisin le plus proche, Vanuatu partage les valeurs culturelles et les liens historiques les plus étroits avec nos cousins  néo-calédoniens.
34.2 Je tiens à exprimer ma profonde reconnaissance pour l’appui continu de l’UNESCO à l’égard de nos priorités  nationales et, en particulier, le soutien apporté en vue de réhabiliter Vanuatu après la catastrophe de 2015. J’invite la  Conférence générale à approuver la nomination de la prochaine Directrice générale, la seconde dans cette Organisation  onusienne. Ma délégation reste disposée à travailler en étroite collaboration avec la nouvelle équipe.  (L’orateur poursuit en anglais)
34.3 Mr President, Vanuatu is a small island developing State located in the South-West Pacific with a population of  fewer than 300,000 people, currently estimated to be 272,000. Despite our small size, the Government is committed to  the new 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development. In 2016 the Prime Minister, the Honourable Charlot Salwai  Tabimasmas, launched the country’s 2030 National Sustainable Development Plan, nationally known as Vanuatu 2030:  The People’s Plan, to ensure overwhelming support for and ownership of this approach by all the institutions of the  people of Vanuatu. Firmly based on three key pillars – social, environmental and economic – carefully selected for the  relevance of their local content, the Vanuatu 2030 People’s Plan will guide the country’s national development agenda  for the next 13 years to 2030. The Government and the people of Vanuatu welcome the continued partnership with  UNESCO in implementation of the SDGs, which are progressing with assistance from UNESCO’s expertise.
34.4 Mr President, let me offer you and our prestigious audience a snapshot of the Vanuatu education sector, not  least to assure you that Vanuatu is highly committed to SDG 4 and all its targets. To signify this national commitment, the  Government has allocated 23% of its national budget to support education and training development in Vanuatu. The  Interim Vanuatu Education and Training Sector Strategy 2017-2018 ensures that there is equitable and inclusive access  to quality education and training, starting from early childhood care and education (ECCE) to enhance early childhood  development, all the way up to tertiary and higher education, and provided at the early stages in local vernacular  languages other than English and French, Vanuatu’s official languages of instruction. We are mainstreaming ECCE in  our education system and providing grants to ECCE children. We continue to provide school grants to primary school  pupils and also to expand grants to secondary schools this year to ensure that all school-age children complete twelve  solid years of compulsory basic education up to junior secondary level. For senior secondary and university students,  learning is supported by a government subsidy and a significant scholarship programme funded by the Government to  the extent of $6 million annually. Understandably, Mr President, Vanuatu values the generous assistance of UNESCO in  the education sector and will continue to seek the expertise of UNESCO to guide us in the further emancipation of our  education sector.   (The speaker continues in French)
34.5 Monsieur le Président, Vanuatu possède des caractéristiques uniques et est culturellement diversifiée. Selon  l’Organisation mondiale de conservation des langues, 116 langues y sont parlées par 272 000 habitants, y compris le  bichelamar, langue nationale, le français et l’anglais. Ces chiffres font de Vanuatu le pays ayant la plus forte densité  linguistique par habitant dans le monde, soit en moyenne une langue pour 2 345 habitants. Bien que nous  reconnaissions cette richesse culturelle, l’avenir de notre patrimoine culturel et les savoirs traditionnels sont également  menacés. Les savoirs traditionnels qui ont été légués par nos ancêtres contiennent beaucoup de solutions pratiques  pour atténuer les effets des catastrophes naturelles. Nous remercions l’UNESCO pour son soutien continu à la  promotion et à la préservation de la culture à Vanuatu.  (L’orateur poursuit en anglais)
34.6 Mr President, while climate change phenomena and related impacts have continuously battered our islands over  the last three to four decades, over the past three years Vanuatu has experienced new disasters and other forms of  calamity. Our greatest fear is that they will never go away and will continue to intensify. Vulnerable and very prone to  natural disasters, Vanuatu is currently one of the world’s most at-risk countries for natural hazards according to a United  Nations world index. In 2015 we were hit by Tropical Cyclone Pam, a devastating Category 5 storm and the first of its  kind in the South Pacific region until Cyclone Winston hit Fiji in 2016. While we were undertaking rehabilitation, more  cyclones struck us earlier this year. And as if cyclones were not enough, just two months ago the volcanic eruption of  Lombenben volcano on the island of Ambae forced the evacuation of the entire population of 11,000 people, who had to  be resettled in three neighbouring islands. Climate change and other natural hazards must logically remain high on the  agenda for the coming years because they know neither physical nor sovereign boundaries and have no respect for the  citizens’ development and welfare or children’s education. Each time calamities strike, we are left to recover at a very  high cost.  (The speaker continues in French)
34.7 Monsieur le Président, Vanuatu note avec grand intérêt le projet de déclaration de principes éthiques en rapport  avec le changement climatique et tient à faire appel à la Conférence pour la mise en œuvre effective des Modalités
146  d’action accélérées des petits États insulaires en développement, ainsi que de la Convention-cadre des Nations Unies  sur les changements climatiques (CCNUCC) et de l’Accord de Paris adopté dans le cadre de la COP-21.
34.8 Monsieur le Président, d’après le rapport de la Commission océanographique intergouvernementale (COI) sur  ses activités 2016-2017, l’océanographie revêt une importance désormais cruciale pour notre civilisation. En 2016, le  Commissaire aux comptes de l’UNESCO a effectué un audit complet de la COI. Il a observé avec une grande justesse  que la Commission se trouvait « à la croisée des chemins », en raison de ses difficultés.
35. The President :   Thank you very much. Now I invite Her Excellency, Ms Olga Vasilieva, Minister of Education and Science of the  Russian Federation. You have the floor, Your Excellency.
(36.1) Ms Vasilyeva (Russian Federation) (translation from the Russian):   Distinguished President, distinguished Director-General, dear colleagues, the modern world is going through rapid  transformations. As Russian President Vladimir Putin recently remarked, “many former methods of global government, of  overcoming conflicts and natural contradictions are no longer useful, often do not work, and new ones have not yet been  developed”. In these conditions, the mandate of UNESCO to “construct the defences of peace in the minds of men and  women” is more relevant than ever.
(36.2) Our Organization is about to go through the next phase of renewal, while continuing to function as a generator of ideas  for development and progress, to provide effective humanitarian support for the global political architecture, to function as a  universally recognized forum for the protection of the intangible and cultural heritage and the advancement of enduring moral  values. In this respect, people have strong expectations regarding the new Director-General whom we are about to appoint. I  take this opportunity to congratulate Ms Azoulay for her success in the ballot held by the Executive Board. The most  immediate task for us as Member States is to help the new leadership of the UNESCO Secretariat to preserve, with dignity,  the Organization’s historic mandate and strengthen its role of intellectual leadership within the United Nations system, an  important actor in the implementation of the global sustainable development agenda.
(36.3) Only together can we do so, uniting our efforts and focusing on those areas where our Organization is indispensable  and possesses greater experience and competence than other international bodies. We must avoid the temptation to use the  platform of UNESCO to tackle short-term political matters. Any politicization of humanitarian issues is unacceptable. We  should show our adherence in practice to the ideals of UNESCO, not forgetting to pay promptly our assessed contributions to  its budget. In today’s world, our future can only be a common future. There can be no separate future. Now, as never before,  we must have a constructive and unifying agenda, based upon balanced interests, with regard and respect for the diversity of  cultures and civilizations.
(36.4) That respect is inculcated in childhood, in the family; being the natural and basic unit of society, the family bears the  greatest responsibility for the upbringing of children. At the same time, educational institutions are the essential and most  important allies of States in combating terrorism and extremism, xenophobia, intolerance and discrimination. The system of  education and upbringing must be oriented towards consolidating in the awareness and behaviour of the younger generation  the moral humanitarian values common to all humankind, the principles of respectful and non-violent behaviour, patriotic  beliefs, the psychology of comradeship, cooperation and mutual assistance. The UNESCO Associated Schools Project  Network has an important role to play in that regard. The more their numbers grow, the more the rising generation is  influenced by the ideals of UNESCO and everyone becomes actively involved in building a peaceful and stable future.
(36.5) Our Organization must not stand aside when its standard-setting instruments are being trampled on, when its Member  States give concrete examples of extremist behaviour. I am thinking of the Convention against Discrimination in Education,  whose provisions have been grossly violated by the adoption in Ukraine of a law “on education”. This cannot be described as  anything other than linguistic racism. It is in our common interest to focus our efforts on such important matters as preschool  and vocational education, the creation of inclusive environments in educational establishments and teacher training for all  levels of education. Let us pay particular attention to the UNITWIN/UNESCO Chairs programme. Recently at Headquarters we  solemnly celebrated the anniversary of that important large-scale programme which brings together more than 700 of the  world’s higher education institutions. We believe that UNESCO’s efforts should focus on building strong educational potential  in Africa. We should therefore pay particular attention to developing North-South-South partnerships to enhance programmes  for the provision of scholarships to young people from developing countries undergoing teacher training.
(36.6) Natural sciences are among UNESCO’s most important areas of activity. We believe that the International Basic  Sciences Programme (IBSP) deserves greater support and strengthening as an essential part of UNESCO’s mandate. We  look forward to linking the development of that programme with the search for new types of cooperation, and we do not  exclude the possibility that its active collaboration with other programmes could increase. This year, the Russian Federation  has submitted a proposal to proclaim 2019 international year of the periodic table of chemical elements. We look forward to  support for this initiative in the General Conference.
(36.7) Now, a few words on yet another urgent task of UNESCO, protection of the world’s cultural heritage. On this subject,  the Security Council of the United Nations adopted its historic resolution 2347 (2017). Our country plays an active part in  implementing the tasks set by that resolution. We intend to increase our cooperation with UNESCO in that regard, including in  the framework of the recently adopted “Memorandum of Understanding for the protection and restoration of cultural property in  conflict areas, notably in the Middle East”. I believe that our Organization must not remain indifferent when, in civilized Europe,  people are closing their eyes to manifestations of neo-Nazism, when, conniving at the growth of nationalism, people tolerate  the demolition of memorials to the liberators of the continent, the heroes of the Second World War, whose victorious ending  gave rise to the founding of the United Nations. We believe that, in the framework of UNESCO, this problem should  immediately receive priority attention, and legal frameworks should be devised to halt such actions. Unfortunately, humanity  has more than once paid too high a price for having forgotten the lessons of the past and the willing distortion of historical  facts. If we do not wish to allow the isolation of countries and peoples, the appearance of new dividing lines, it is our duty to  protect the truth, defend the feats accomplished, the dignity and the good name of the living and the dead. Otherwise the  aspirations of the founding fathers of UNESCO for a fairer and safer world will remain vain hopes. Thank you for your  attention.
37. The President:   Now I call upon His Excellency, Mr Yerlan Sagadiev, Minister of Education and Science of Kazakhstan. You  have the floor, Your Excellency.
38.1 Mr Sagadiev (Kazakhstan):   Mr President, Your Excellencies, I feel very privileged to address such a high level audience. This year is the  twenty-fifth year of cooperation between UNESCO and Kazakhstan. Allow me to express my gratitude to the Member  States and the leadership of UNESCO, Ms Bokova specifically, for supporting our country and our initiatives at UNESCO  and the United Nations as a whole. Allow me to congratulate Ms Audrey Azoulay for her nomination as the next Director- General.
38.2 In the context of implementation of the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), we would like to mention the  success of “Expo 2017 Astana: Future Energy”. This summer, 115 countries and 22 international organizations gathered  in Astana to demonstrate their ideas, vision of the future and associated technologies. We would like to thank again all of  the countries and organizations for their efforts. As one of the post-Expo activities, with the support of five United Nations  organizations, we are creating a permanent international centre for the development of green technologies and future  energy. I would like to welcome you all to be a part of that centre. At the site of the Expo, we also held the first ever  summit of the Organisation of Islamic Cooperation (OIC) on science and technology. Many of the ministers here today  were there. I would like to thank you all again for being a part of that cooperation conference. As a result of the summit,  we hope to develop multiple joint research and educational projects within OIC countries. In October next year, Astana  plans to hold the sixth Congress of Leaders of World and Traditional Religions on the theme of “Religious leaders for a  safe world”. We hope that UNESCO, as usual, will be represented at the congress.
38.3 As you can see, Astana is all about global integration and this is where education is going today as well. There  is no doubt that human capital and better education are the key to all nations’ future successes in every field – economy,  science, arts and so forth. But better education is also key to turning nations’ peoples into truly integrated and  responsible citizens of our planet – and this is also the goal of Kazakhstan. We have many activities in the sphere of  education, but let me dwell for a moment on two significant ones.
38.4 The first is to introduce English as a language of instruction for some subjects. Today, it is a choice for  information technology, biology, chemistry and physics for all high-school children and college students in Kazakhstan.  We have always been a bilingual country, with Kazakh and Russian widely used. The goal today is to become truly  trilingual. It means that in a few years every high-school graduate and every student should know Kazakh, Russian and  English at subject level. It has not been easy, but today 85% of parents want their children to have English at subject  level. The second goal is internationalization of higher education by bringing true academic freedom to universities. This  means freedom for higher education establishments to freely develop their own programmes, choose the language of  education and instruction and bring in management and faculty staff from all over the world, all in the hope of making  Kazakhstan an educational hub for central Asia. Over the past six years, the number of students studying abroad has  more than doubled to 4.5 million, so we would like to capitalize on that as well. Scholars have indicated that in 10 years  the number will be closer to 20 million. We should think about it. We now encourage our students to travel and our  universities to attract students from other countries, and also to develop joint programmes with other universities. We  encourage other leading universities around the world to open campuses in Kazakhstan, as we believe that openness  can create true quality integration. A third goal is the commitment to the highest standards in technical colleges and  harmonizing the national qualification framework with European standards at university level. It is a lot of work. We will  be happy to work together with UNESCO and the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD) to  share our experience and develop and participate in global initiatives. Thank you very much.  Ms Alaoui resumes the Chair
39. La Présidente :   Merci Monsieur le Ministre. Je donne à présent la parole à S. E. M. Yuri Sterk, Vice-Ministre des affaires  étrangères de Bulgarie.
40.1 M. Sterk (Bulgarie) :  Madame la Présidente, Madame la Directrice générale, Excellences, Mesdames et Messieurs, je voudrais tout  d’abord féliciter Mme Alaoui pour son élection au poste de Présidente de la Conférence générale et lui souhaiter du  succès dans sa mission responsable. Ma délégation se joint par ailleurs à la déclaration qui sera faite au nom de l’Union  européenne plus tard dans la journée.
40.2 Mesdames et Messieurs, cette session restera dans les pages de la longue histoire de l’UNESCO par ses  décisions importantes, qui marqueront le parcours de l’Organisation dans la mise en œuvre du nouveau et ambitieux  programme mondial de développement durable. Notre responsabilité est très grande s’agissant de tenir notre  engagement de construire un monde sûr et durable, dans lequel personne ne doit être rejeté, et nous avons tous le  devoir de tout faire pour mettre en œuvre nos promesses.
40.3 Nous nous félicitons de l’approche novatrice multidisciplinaire et intersectorielle suivie pour l’élaboration du  Projet de programme et de budget pour la période 2018-2021, conformément au Programme de développement durable  à l’horizon 2030. Et malgré les contraintes budgétaires sévères auxquelles l’Organisation a été confrontée ces dernières  années, il est de notre responsabilité collective de maintenir sa capacité à répondre aux attentes élevées concernant la  mise en œuvre des objectifs stratégiques du développement durable.
40.4 Nous vivons dans un monde de transformations positives mais aussi de graves problèmes de sécurité, qui  exigent de nouvelles approches de la part de la communauté internationale pour permettre d’y répondre au moyen des  ressources de l’éducation, de la diversité culturelle et du dialogue interculturel. Dans un contexte d’incertitude globale  sans cesse croissante et de crise des valeurs, nous affirmons que l’UNESCO a un rôle primordial à jouer dans la  construction d’une société juste, inclusive et globale fondée sur des valeurs humaines universelles : respect des droits
149  de l’homme, solidarité, sauvegarde de la paix, préservation du patrimoine commun de l’humanité. L’ambition de  l’UNESCO, inscrite dans son Acte constitutif il y a plus de 70 ans, de « construire la paix dans l’esprit des hommes et  des femmes » est aujourd’hui plus pertinente que jamais. L’extrémisme violent est un fléau de notre temps qui change  de visage et d’apparence et qui nécessite une approche innovatrice et globale. Nous sommes profondément préoccupés  par l’ampleur croissante de ce phénomène, qui déstabilise gravement nos sociétés et frappe les plus vulnérables : les  jeunes. La Bulgarie s’est engagée à soutenir les efforts de l’Organisation pour combattre la radicalisation et l’extrémisme  en promouvant une éducation équitable et inclusive, en prévenant l’exclusion sociale et économique des jeunes et en  promouvant la diversité culturelle pour renforcer leur sentiment d’identité et d’appartenance.   (L’orateur poursuit en anglais)
40.5 Ladies and gentlemen, never before in recent history have we seen such brutal and systemic terrorist attacks  against cultural heritage used as a tactic of war, meant to disseminate hatred and to weaken the grounds for peace. As a  country with a long history and a significant cultural legacy, Bulgaria is fully engaged in its preservation and protection in  compliance with all relevant international legal instruments. In this vein, we acknowledge UNESCO’s key role in  integrating culture into the peace-building process and in sharpening the international community’s focus on links  between the protection of culture and the maintenance of security. Cultural heritage is our bridge from the past to the  future. This is the way we understand the world and the means by which we shape it. Sharing this vision, Bulgaria has  actively contributed to fostering cultural diversity and multicultural dialogue during its mandate as a member of the  Intergovernmental Committee for the Safeguarding of the Intangible Cultural Heritage as well as through the activities of  the Regional Centre for the Safeguarding of Intangible Cultural Heritage in South-Eastern Europe, in Sofia, under the  auspices of UNESCO.
40.6 Ladies and gentlemen, in line with its strong commitment to advance the implementation of the Education 2030  Framework for Action, Bulgaria hosted, in September 2017, the Fifth International Summit on Information Technology in  Education (EDUsummIT) under the title “Rethinking Learning in a Digital Age” under the patronage of UNESCO. Guided  by the conviction that culture is one of the main enablers for achieving sustainability and development, Bulgaria has  defined it as one of the priorities of its forthcoming Presidency of the Council of the European Union. In conclusion I  would like to thank UNESCO’s Director-General, Ms Irina Bokova, for her leadership and dedication to raising  UNESCO’s visibility in difficult times for the Organization, and to enhance its role in addressing a range of global  challenges.  (The speaker continues in French)
40.7 Je voudrais aussi souhaiter à la prochaine Directrice générale, Mme Audrey Azoulay, du courage, du succès et  du vent en poupe. Merci de votre attention.
41. La Présidente :   Merci, Monsieur le Ministre. Et maintenant, je voudrais donner la parole à S. E. M. Sergiy Kyslytsya, Vice- Ministre des affaires étrangères d’Ukraine.
42.1 Mr Kyslytsya (Ukraine):   Madam President of the General Conference, Madam Director-General, ladies and gentlemen, I am honoured to  take part in this notable session that potentially could mark a transition from the old to the new UNESCO. Being the  biggest and the most inclusive world platform for cooperation, UNESCO has many reasons to become an even more  influential actor in the global arena. Having said that, I would like to use this opportunity to express our sincere thanks to  Ms Bokova who has led the Organization in perhaps the most challenging times of its history, who has been accessible  and approachable to everyone, capable of listening to all delegations, and always available to me when I needed to talk  to her. Thank you, Madam.
42.2 This influence and deeper engagement of UNESCO come at a price. The challenges our Organization is facing  nowadays have become more complex and multifaceted, which inevitably leads UNESCO to assume new  responsibilities. Some may, and do say, that the Organization is getting more and more involved in global political affairs.  I would interpret this the other way round. UNESCO is trying to save culture, education and science from grave  consequences inflicted by global political affairs at a time when we face hybrid challenges and hybrid threats, with  hypocrisy jamming all discussions, when we see aggressive mimicry, when predators assume the role of victims, which  dominates behaviour in the international arena. That is what UNESCO is about. The same criteria and the same  approaches based on the basic values of the Organization should be applied everywhere in the world, be it in Africa,  Latin America, Asia or Europe. When human rights in the spheres of education, science, culture and freedom of  information are in danger, there is no room for idle speculation about “politicizing the issues” or the “insufficiency of  UNESCO’s mandate”. It is not about the name of the country, it is about the relevance of the Organization and its viability  in the modern world.
42.3 With this in mind, I would like to recall eight consecutive decisions, “Follow-up of the situation in the Autonomous  Republic of Crimea (Ukraine)” of the Executive Board, the last one adopted just a few weeks ago. The reason this issue  has remained high on the agenda of UNESCO throughout the last three years is common knowledge. It is also high on  the list of priorities of the United Nations, the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe (OSCE), the European  Union, the Council of Europe and other international institutions. The information of the UNESCO Secretariat on the  issue, as well as the recent United Nations thematic report on the situation of human rights in the temporarily occupied  Crimea and the city of Sevastopol vividly testify to the situation in the occupied peninsula, within UNESCO’s fields of  competence. The violations of freedom of expression and access to information continue to be extremely severe and  systematic. Access to education in the Ukrainian language is of particular concern. I would not dignify the aggressive
150  statement of the Russian Federation delegate by commenting on it. I would only like to refer her to the order of the  International Court of Justice of 19 April this year requesting the Russian Federation to provide education in the  Ukrainian language in Crimea.
42.4 While the population of the peninsula bears the brunt of the occupation, the cultural and natural heritage of  Crimea is also being treated by the Russian occupying authorities as the spoils of the “conquest”, not as objects of  timeless, historic significance. Take as one example the state of conservation of the Khan’s Palace in Bakhchisarai,  submitted to the World Heritage Tentative List in 2005, which remains of great concern. The occupying authorities are  conducting so-called restoration works on the roof of the mosque, including construction of iron awning over the principal  facade of the main building of the Khan’s Palace. The most alarming fact is that these illegal works are being supervised  by personnel who have neither experience nor qualifications in the restoration of historic buildings. Another recent  example is the construction of the so-called Taurida highway, which is becoming a real disaster for the ancient Tiritakskiy  defensive wall that protected the citizens of the city of Ponticapaeum in the past from the raids of nomads. However, I am  pleased to acknowledge that we are at the final stage of cooperative consultations with the UNESCO Secretariat on the  elaboration of parameters of direct monitoring activities of UNESCO in Crimea.
42.5 Madam President, today UNESCO is taking a global lead in practically all spheres of its unique mandate. The  updated strategy for climate change and the work in the implementation of Sustainable Development Goal 4 and the  Education 2030 Framework for Action attest to the enormous scope of competence and efforts of UNESCO. Ukraine is  ready to support the development and transformation of UNESCO and to continue its active participation in all spheres of  its activities by taking practical steps to make our Organization stronger. I thank you for your attention.
43. La Présidente :   Merci, Monsieur le Ministre. Et maintenant, j’ai le grand plaisir de donner la parole à S. E. M. Abdoulaye Yéro  Baldé, Ministre de l’enseignement supérieur et de la recherche scientifique de Guinée. Excellence, vous avez la parole.
44.1 M. Yéro Baldé (Guinée) :  Madame la Présidente de la Conférence générale, Monsieur le Président du Conseil exécutif, Madame la  Directrice générale de l’UNESCO, Mesdames et Messieurs les ministres et chefs de délégation, en prenant part aux  travaux de la 39e session de la Conférence générale de l’UNESCO, la République de Guinée voudrait apporter par ma  voix aux éminents représentants des États membres de l’UNESCO, le salut fraternel et amical du peuple de Guinée, du  Gouvernement guinéen et tout particulièrement du Professeur Alpha Condé, Président de la République, mais  également Président en exercice de l’Union africaine. Il m’est ainsi agréable, au nom de la délégation de la République  de Guinée, de féliciter chaleureusement Mme Zohour Alaoui, Présidente de la Conférence générale, pour sa brillante  élection. Je suis d’ores et déjà persuadé que ses immenses qualités professionnelles et sa riche expérience lui  permettront de conduire avec efficacité les travaux de la présente session. Je voudrais aussi remercier et féliciter  M. Stanley Mutumba Simataa, Président de la 38e Conférence générale pour la qualité des services rendus à  l’Organisation tout au long de son mandat. Notre délégation adresse ses sincères félicitations à Mme Audrey Azoulay  pour sa brillante élection au poste de Directrice générale de l’UNESCO par le Conseil exécutif et lui assure son soutien  total. C’est avec un réel plaisir, du haut de cette tribune, que nous adressons un hommage sincère et appuyé à  Mme Irina Bokova, première femme Directrice générale de l’UNESCO qui, grâce à ses compétences professionnelles et  sa riche expérience, a dirigé notre Organisation avec succès. Mme Bokova, la République de Guinée se félicite du  soutien de l’UNESCO en faveur de Conakry comme « Capitale mondiale du Livre en 2017 ».
44.2 Madame la Présidente, Mesdames et Messieurs, la multiplicité et la complexité des défis qui interpellent nos  États les moins avancés dans le contexte d’un monde globalisé, invitent certes à une mobilisation de ressources  financières, mais aussi et surtout à des réformes de structures et de méthodes tendant à mieux cerner les problèmes et  les réalités à la base. C’est dans cette dynamique que le Gouvernement de la République de Guinée a engagé des  réformes majeures dans les secteurs de développement, particulièrement dans ceux de l’éducation, de la recherche  scientifique, de l’innovation technologique, de la culture, de l’environnement, de l’autonomisation des femmes et des  jeunes dans le cadre de la réalisation des Objectifs de développement durable (ODD). Il convient de noter que la Guinée  est le premier pays ouest-africain à ratifier l’Accord d’Addis-Abeba relatif à la reconnaissance et à l’équivalence des  diplômes. C’est aussi dans ce cadre que s’inscrit la vaste réforme du secteur éducatif dont l’élaboration a été confiée à  un groupe de spécialistes, dont le travail a permis de faire le diagnostic exhaustif de notre système éducatif en vue de la  tenue prochaine des États généraux de l’éducation, ce qui permettra de rénover fondamentalement notre système  éducatif.
44.3 Et c’est parce que nous voulons réaliser ce programme en respectant notre environnement et nos valeurs  culturelles que nous restons mobilisés autour des projets phares de conservation de la réserve de biosphère du mont  Nimba, des réserves de la forêt de Ziama, du Parc national du Haut Niger et du Parc national du Badiar, et ainsi que la  conservation du fameux Sosso-Bala et de son espace culturel, placés sous la tutelle de l’UNESCO. Ces projets méritent  une attention toute particulière et un soutien actif de la communauté internationale afin de sauvegarder ces éléments  constitutifs du patrimoine immatériel et scientifique de l’humanité, et d’obtenir le retour dans nos pays respectifs des  biens matériels spoliés. C’est pourquoi nous fondons l’espoir que l’UNESCO, grâce à son expertise pluridisciplinaire,  soutiendra efficacement les efforts de nos États dans la construction des sociétés modernes du savoir.
44.4 Madame la Présidente, Mesdames et Messieurs, nous savons que c’est à travers un savant dosage entre  l’éducation, la science et la culture que l’Afrique pourra se doter de ressources humaines de qualité pour accélérer son  développement économique et socioculturel. L’Afrique reste confrontée à des problèmes majeurs qu’il convient de  prendre en compte et l’UNESCO, de concert avec les autres institutions du système des Nations Unies, aidera à les  extirper de notre continent. Il s’agit de l’analphabétisme, de l’intolérance, de la dégradation du patrimoine culturel et des
151  valeurs culturelles positives, de la destruction de l’environnement, et de la non-maîtrise de la science et de la  technologie. La persistance et l’aggravation de ces fléaux rendent encore plus complexes les problèmes de l’éducation  et de la formation dans de nombreux États. Pour faire face à ces défis, l’expertise de l’UNESCO est particulièrement  requise pour la valorisation des sous-secteurs de l’enseignement supérieur et de la recherche scientifique, de l’éducation  nationale, de l’alphabétisation, de l’enseignement technique, de la formation professionnelle et la création de centres  d’excellence.
44.5 Madame la Présidente, Mesdames et Messieurs, avant de terminer, je forme le vœu ardent que l’action de  l’UNESCO, notamment en Afrique, s’amplifie et se consolide à travers des programmes et des projets novateurs  porteurs de croissance, afin de faire reculer en Afrique les frontières de la pauvreté, et faire avancer les causes de  l’éducation, de la science, de la technologie et de la compréhension mutuelle. Je vous remercie.
45. La Présidente :  Merci, Monsieur le Ministre. Notre prochain orateur est S. E. Mme Venera Domi, Ambassadeur d’Albanie  auprès de l’UNESCO. Excellence, vous avez la parole.
46.1 Ms Domi (Albania):   Madam President of the General Conference, Mr Chairperson of the Executive Board, Madam Director-General,  distinguished Ministers, Excellencies, ladies and gentlemen, fellow participants, it is a great pleasure and honour for me  to be here to represent Albania and to address this distinguished audience. Let me start by expressing my Government’s  and my own support to all those countries, peoples and individuals that have suffered from violence and natural  disasters. Human and nature’s violence is rising in troubling levels and I firmly believe that UNESCO, the forum where  we build peace in the minds of men and women and find ways to develop sustainable science, is more relevant and  needed than ever.
46.2 I take this opportunity to express our gratitude to Ms Irina Bokova, the outgoing Director-General, who has  expertly led UNESCO during the last eight years of financial difficulties for the Organization. I also express our gratitude  and appreciation to Mr Michael Worbs, the outgoing Chairperson of the Executive Board, who distinguished himself in  the polite and diplomatic way he chaired the Executive Board during the last three years. I also welcome the new  Director-General who will be nominated in a couple of days, Ms Audrey Azoulay, and wish her every success in her new  endeavours. Our expectations are very high, the challenges UNESCO faces are numerous and difficult. We need the  new Director-General to complete the reform of the Organization, to prioritize by selecting fewer programmes most  relevant to UNESCO’s mandate without overlapping and duplication within the United Nations bodies, to invigorate and  inspire the staff and to conduct deeper and wider dialogue with Member States. We expect UNESCO to provide a  substantial and decisive contribution to the implementation of the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development in its fields  of competence, and most importantly to leave no one behind.
46.3 Ladies and gentlemen, Albania aligns itself with the European Union’s statement. I am delighted to see that this  year education has been one of the most important topics of the debate and action of the whole United Nations system.  Through assessment of progress and making recommendations for improving delivery, the United Nations has  contributed to making education more inclusive. UNESCO has the leading role in the implementation of Sustainable  Development Goal 4 concerning education for all (EFA), and we are strongly committed to working closely with UNESCO  to fulfil this objective. Education is the foundation of dynamic societies. Sustainable, just, fair, inclusive and democratic  value-oriented education is the foundation of peaceful societies. Underscoring national efforts towards achievement of  the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development, 25 Albanian universities recently signed a declaration of commitment to  play an active role in advancing the 2030 Agenda in the country. This follows the ongoing efforts of the United Nations in  Albania, with the support of the Government, to establish partnerships with academics, Parliament, the private sector,  civil society and others to support the country’s achievement of the global goals. Through their work, universities can  advance strategic areas of development, inform good policies as well as propose sustainable solutions for social,  economic, environmental and other issues in countries. Universities are in the most favourable position to lead innovation  and become the best examples for both the public and private sectors in the country. Our country’s education sector has  greatly benefited from UNESCO’s education policy review, assessing both strengths and weaknesses of the system,  focused on three national priority policy areas: teachers curriculum, development and use of information technology.  Albania commends UNESCO and especially the Education Sector for its outstanding work on the prevention of violent  extremism through education, but also through sustainable science, culture and communication. This programme is an  example of how we should respond in a timely manner to a major concern and need of Member States to tackle one of  the most serious and wide-spreading threats and violations of human rights.
46.4 Science is an important field for the sustainable development of each country. UNESCO’s role in promoting  biosphere reserves, geoparks, hydrology programmes, disaster risk reduction and resilience are all important tools for  Member States. We need science to become affordable for all countries regardless of their economic growth and level.  UNESCO should be able to accompany and assist Member States to achieve their scientific development and use of the  most advanced technologies. The Culture programme and World Heritage List are currently what makes UNESCO  known and appreciated worldwide. Its tireless efforts to protect cultural expressions and heritage in a context of armed  conflict has not only garnered international recognition and support, as the historic United Nations resolution 2347 (2017)  testifies, but has also advanced international criminal law, with the International Criminal Court condemning the  perpetrators of the destruction of the world heritage sites in Timbuktu, Mali, in 2016.
46.5 UNESCO’s role in promoting freedom of expression, safety for journalists and a safe and healthy media and  communication environment is essential. Albania commends the efforts of UNESCO and several Member States in  promoting media literacy. We congratulate Ms Albana Shala, Chairperson of the International Programme for the
152  Development of Communication (IPDC) Council, for revitalizing this important programme, unique in the United Nations  system, and her contribution to the Group of Friends for the Safety of Journalists and the Issue of Impunity. Albania  considers cooperation, and especially regional cooperation, as an important tool to reach sustainable peace and  development. Responding positively to United Nations Secretary-General António Guterres’ appeal to all of us to strive to  overcome our differences because peace depends on us, I invite Serbian politicians and government leaders to work  within a European spirit, and good neighbourly spirit, for a sustainable and developed region.
46.6 Kosovo is one of the countries of the region which contributes to the stability, peace and progress of the whole  region, and it has nothing in common with Catalonia. I wish to assure all Member States, that all heritage, cultural and  natural, is not endangered in Kosovo. Albania, together with many countries throughout the world, supports Kosovo’s  efforts to join UNESCO whenever they decide to apply, because it will be for the benefit of Kosovo, for the heritage in the  country about which Serbs are so concerned, and for UNESCO itself.
46.7 Dear colleagues, Albania is running for election to the Executive Board of UNESCO for the term 2017-2021. My  country and my Government are committed to contributing to the fulfilment of UNESCO’s mandate in all its field of  competence in our country and worldwide. My Government is committed to strengthening and widening the cooperation  with UNESCO that is already growing steadily. We are convinced that Albania, a country of tolerance, respectful of  cultural diversity and religious beliefs, and in dynamic and vibrant economic development, has a lot to offer UNESCO as  well as a lot to benefit from. I invite all Member States to cast their vote for the election of my country to the Executive  Board next Tuesday. Thank you.
47. La Présidente :  Merci, Madame l’Ambassadeur. Je donne maintenant la parole à S. E. M. Jean-Paul Carteron, Ambassadeur,  Délégué permanent des Îles Salomon auprès de l’UNESCO. Monsieur l’Ambassadeur.
48.1 Mr Carteron (Solomon Islands):   Madam President of the General Conference, Mr Chairperson of the Executive Board, Madam Director-General,  Excellencies, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the people and the Government of Solomon Islands, I extend our warm  greetings and congratulations to Ms Alaoui on her election as the President of this Conference.   (The speaker continues in French)
48.2 Mme Zohour Alaoui, au-delà de vos compétences exceptionnelles, qui nous ont fait vous choisir, vous  représentez un grand pays, le Maroc, dont le Souverain met en œuvre des programmes de coopération essentiels, non  seulement pour l’Afrique mais aussi pour le Pacifique, ce qui est vital pour nous. Qu’il en soit remercié.  (L’orateur poursuit en anglais)
48.3 Madam President, I would like also to acknowledge the leadership provided by your predecessor in facilitating  the proceedings of the last General Conference. First, we would like to congratulate the Executive Board for having  nominated the distinguished Ms Azoulay as our next Director-General.  (The speaker continues in French)
48.4 Depuis les premières heures, mon Gouvernement a appuyé avec énergie et détermination sa candidature et  nous sommes heureux que ses qualités, et surtout ses profondes valeurs humaines, aient été reconnues lors de cette  élection. Les États du Pacifique entendent soutenir Mme Azoulay dans ses entreprises qui, nous en sommes persuadés,  rendront prestige et rayonnement à notre Organisation. À présent, il m’appartient de saluer avec émotion le départ de  Mme Bokova. Durant huit années, Mme Bokova a tenu la barre d’une Organisation qui a connu de nombreux et graves  problèmes et subi de multiples attaques injustifiées. Mme Bokova s’est battue jusqu’au dernier moment pour garder le  cap. Elle mérite, je tiens à le dire, honneur et respect.  (L’orateur poursuit en anglais)
48.5 Madam President, Solomon Islands has continued to implement UNESCO-related programmes in the areas of  world heritage sites, the Memory of the World Programme, the promotion of intangible cultural heritage, gender equality,  youth empowerment, information and communication technologies (ICTs) in education, climate change and disaster  preparedness. Solomon Islands is committed to ensuring access to education at all levels, and quality education in terms  of teacher effectiveness and better learning strategies for students, as well as management of resources at the national,  provincial, education authority and school levels. In Solomon Islands, we have made moderate progress in our efforts to  improve the quality of education. We still need to work hard to implement programmes and activities of UNESCO such as  developing relevant curriculum materials and resources. We need to use ICTs to ensure that education reaches the  unreached, and to develop a participatory approach that can enable us to integrate traditional and scientific knowledge in  the management of the impact of climate change. Climate change is indeed the most critical threat to our very existence  in the Pacific and there is a need for the industrialized nations to honour their obligations to reduce the increase in global  temperature. I cannot but express concern at the current process put in place to include our voice, the voice of the  Pacific, in UNESCO. We need a reserved seat in the Executive Board, as this is where the voice of Pacific islands can  be heard and needs can be discussed.  (The speaker continues in French)
48.6 Les États du Pacifique, qui sont le trésor de notre monde, ont été trop longtemps oubliés, négligés, malmenés.  Aussi, je me fais l’interprète de tous nos États frères ici présents en réclamant avec force ce siège au Conseil exécutif.  Ceux qui produisent en quantité ce terrible CO2, et qui siègent en nombre au Conseil exécutif, ne peuvent pas ne pas se
153  pencher sur le cas de ceux qui en subissent tous les effets dévastateurs et qui pourtant n’en produisent pas un seul  gramme ! Voilà pourquoi la voix du Pacifique veut être entendue, et encore plus entendue.  (L’orateur poursuit en anglais)
48.7 My country is committed to ensuring that its cultural heritage is protected and safeguarded. As a least developed  country, Solomon Islands fully appreciates UNESCO’s support, together with our Pacific neighbours, and is honoured to  be part of UNESCO’s programmes.  (The speaker continues in French)
48.8 Mais je lance à nouveau cet appel à tous les États membres : nous, États du Pacifique, sommes un continent.  Nous représentons un patrimoine merveilleux, unique et tellement fragile. Il est temps que vous nous donniez une vraie  place autour de la table. Il est temps que nos actions, nos discours ici, nos échanges, cessent d’être conventionnels et  deviennent porteurs de mouvement et de progrès. L’UNESCO doit signifier quelque chose de vrai et de profond pour  tous ceux qui souffrent et qui ont besoin d’elle.
49. La Présidente :  Merci, Excellence. Et maintenant, je donne la parole à notre dernier orateur, S. E. Mme Maria da Paixão Costa,  Ambassadeur, Déléguée permanente du Timor-Leste auprès de l’UNESCO.
50.1 Ms da Paixão Costa (Timor-Leste):  (address delivered in Portuguese; English text provided by the delegation):   Madam President, Madam Director-General, distinguished Heads of Delegations, ladies and gentlemen on  behalf of the Government of the Democratic Republic of Timor-Leste, headed by Prime Minister Mari Alkatiri, I am  honoured to congratulate every member present at the 39th session of UNESCO’s General Conference. Timor-Leste is a  young and dynamic nation, located in Southeast Asia, which recently celebrated its fifteenth anniversary of  independence. We are at the beginning of a new chapter in our history, through which – after ensuring peace and  stability – we hold our destiny in our own hands. Timor-Leste reaps the benefits nowadays from peace, stability and a  rapidly expanding economy, which has been gradually improving the well-being of our people. Earlier this year, Timor- Leste peacefully and democratically held two elections: presidential and parliamentary. Dr Francisco Guterres Lu-Olo  was elected as President of Timor-Leste and the Fretilin Party received the most votes.
50.2 Madam President, our national strategic development plan notes that the biggest asset of our nation is the  strength of our people – and this is the reason why education is an essential priority of governmental action. As an  outcome of the work accomplished over the last 14 years, it is with pride that I acknowledge the significant improvements  in the number of children enrolled in basic education, which is currently over 94%. However, we still face the challenges  that are common to many developing countries, particularly with regards to the quality of education. We want to reduce  the current differences between schools, municipalities and rural and urban areas. In May 2017, Timor-Leste, through  the Ministry of Education, conducted a national education congress on the theme “Education is the pillar for reinforcing  identity and national development”. At that national congress, questions were asked relating to five key-areas, namely  national education curriculum, teachers’ management and training, schools’ management and supervision, infrastructure,  equipment and educational resources, and public and private education management. We are grateful for the support  being provided, since the beginning, by the international community. We embraced the education for all (EFA)  programme and are equally committed to achieving the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs).
50.3 In terms of regional inclusion, we have established friendly relations with Southeast Asian and Pacific  neighbouring countries, in particular our closest neighbours Australia and Indonesia. Given our geographic location, we  also wish to become part of the Association of Southeast Asian Nations (ASEAN), with which we will, together, contribute  towards regional growth, social progress and cultural development in a spirit of partnership. In addition, we hold strong  historical and affective connections to the group of countries that are also part of the Community of Portuguese-Speaking  Countries (CPLP). In terms of the implementation of the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development, Timor-Leste is a  signatory to the “Call to Action” statement launched at the meeting of the High-Level Group in support of implementation  of the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development. We think that the world should move quickly towards realizing the  new, ambitious and transformational sustainable development agenda.
50.4 Madam President, I would like to take this opportunity to express our sincere gratitude to UNESCO’s Director- General for the continuous support provided to the Timor-Leste National Commission for UNESCO in its initiatives in the  fields of education, science, communication and culture. I would particularly like to emphasize the support provided to the  Ministry of Education’s programme regarding multilingual education based on mother-tongue languages. Timor-Leste’s  countless existing languages reflect the current linguistic richness of our country, and are an essential part of our cultural  heritage. In the area of culture, we are committed, with UNESCO’s support, to the preservation of our rich cultural  heritage. Culture is essential in strengthening national unity and cohesion, and it is important for this culture to be  protected and celebrated. We are counting on UNESCO’s contribution in attaining our cultural and educational goals for  the benefit of our people. In the domain of communication and information, Timor-Leste has established a national  committee for the Memory of the World Programme, which will work according to the specified goals of the Memory of  the World General Guidelines to Safeguard Documentary Heritage. Before concluding, I should like to take this  opportunity to reiterate Timor-Leste’s commitment to cooperating with UNESCO in the maintenance and promotion of  peace, which is an essential goal of this Organization. Thank you very much.
51. La Présidente :  Merci Madame l’Ambassadeur. Excellences, Mesdames et Messieurs, avant de conclure, j’ai cru comprendre  que la délégation d’Azerbaïdjan demandait un droit de réponse. La délégation est invitée à lire sa déclaration depuis son  siège, et pour deux minutes. Je donne donc la parole au représentant de l’Azerbaïdjan. Excellence, vous avez la parole.
52.1 Azerbaijan:   Thank you, Madam President of the General Conference. I would like to use my right of reply to the statement of  the Foreign Minister of Armenia, made yesterday. The occupation by armed forces of the Republic of Armenia of 20% of  the internationally recognized territories of Azerbaijan has continued for many years regardless of four United Nations  Security Council resolutions demanding immediate full and unconditional withdrawal of Armenian troops from Azerbaijani  territories.
52.2 More than one million Azerbaijanis became refugees and internally displaced as a result of this conflict. In his  speech, the Foreign Minister of Armenia touched upon the importance of education. Indeed, education is important but it  should be first and foremost applied to Armenian leadership. While the international community strives to eliminate all  forms of discrimination and fight against Nazism, anti-Semitism, Islamophobia and xenophobia, the current leaders of  Armenia are officially declaring ethnic incompatibility between Azerbaijanis and Armenians, glorifying and erecting  monuments in honour of the Nazi military General Garegin Nzhdeh and other terrorists in their capital. This speech is  another hypocritical attempt to deviate the attention of the international community from the aggravated facts of cultural  cleansing, carried out not only within the occupied territories of Azerbaijan but also within Armenia itself. Cultural heritage  such as mosques, monuments, cemeteries and museums is being purposefully destroyed to wipe out evidence of the  centuries-old historical presence of Azerbaijanis in these territories. How can Armenia lecture others about diversity and  tolerance, while today it is a unique and mono-ethnic country in a very diverse region?
52.3 Having listened to Armenia’s speeches for many years, we have witnessed all the hatred and false accusations,  the lack of vision for future development, and the lack of prospects for dialogue. Regretfully, instead of building peace in  the minds of men and women, Armenia is misusing this highest podium by poisoning the noble spirit of this venerable  House. But we strongly believe that all their attempts are in vain. Thank you, Madam President.
53. La Présidente :   Merci. Excellences, Mesdames et Messieurs, ceci nous amène au terme de la réunion de cet après-midi.  Comme vous le savez, la plénière se réunira de nouveau demain matin à 10 heures précises. Avant de clore la séance,  je tiens à rappeler aux membres du Bureau de la Conférence générale que la deuxième réunion du Bureau aura lieu  demain matin à 9 heures dans la salle X. Je vous souhaite à tous une excellente soirée. La séance est close.  The meeting rose at 6.15 p.m.  La séance est levée à 18 h 15  Se levanta la sesión a las 18.15  Заседание закрывается в 18.15  الظهربعد  ١٥,٦رفعت اجللسة يف الساعة    会议于 18 时 15 分结束