1. La Présidente :  Bonjour, Excellences, Mesdames et Messieurs, je déclare ouverte la septième séance plénière de la  Conférence générale. Aujourd’hui, nous allons continuer avec les déclarations nationales. Puisque nous avons une  longue liste d’éminents orateurs, je propose que nous commencions immédiatement avec notre travail. Je tiens à vous  rappeler que chaque déclaration nationale sera limitée à six minutes. J’ai donc le plaisir de donner la parole à notre  premier orateur, S. E. M. Shawn Richard, Vice-Premier Ministre de Saint-Kitts-et-Nevis. Excellence, vous avez la parole.
2.1 Mr Richard (Saint Kitts and Nevis):   Madam President of the General Conference, Your Excellency Ms  Zohour Alaoui, Madam Director-General,  Mr Chairperson of the Executive Board, fellow honourable ministers, including those from my own Caribbean subregion,  distinguished ambassadors, ladies and gentlemen, good morning. I consider it a signal honour to address this august  body on behalf of the Government of Saint Kitts and Nevis. My Government continues to extol the virtues of UNESCO  and the expertise that it provides us, as a small island developing State. UNESCO remains an indispensable stakeholder  in our quest to achieve the United Nations’ Sustainable Development Goals.
2.2 Madam President, permit me to echo the sentiments of my Caribbean colleagues, which have been expressed  in all of the United Nations’ various forums, that small island States like ours must be elevated to a position of global  priority. I support the consensus that we must develop and implement more effective and tailored measures that  adequately reflect the unique condition of small island developing States, taking into account our islands’ vulnerabilities  linked to diseconomies of scale, overexposure to external economic shocks and the increase in frequency and  intensification of natural disasters. In the wake of the apocalyptic hurricanes Irma and Maria, which left a trail of  devastation across the Caribbean region the proportions of which have never been seen before, we look to UNESCO as  a major partner in our efforts to adapt and build resilience to the disastrous effects of climate change. In the wake of this  phenomenon, Saint Kitts and Nevis relies more than ever on UNESCO’s expertise and support in protecting our  education sector by providing resilience-building strategies and strengthening our early-warning systems, and to  preserve and protect our places of memory and cultural heritage and secure a sustainable future for our country.
2.3 Madam President, we firmly believe that the solutions to the problems among the youth in our islands lie with  and within the young people themselves. They must be given the opportunity to play a more integral role in promoting  and embracing the humanities, particularly in sports as a tool for development and empowerment, health and well-being,  physical education and anti-doping practices. These are powerful tools for personal development and vital preventative  measures in our strategy to combat crime and antisocial behaviour. Young people’s access to, and active participation in,  lifelong quality education, including learning about their history and cultural heritage, along with skills training, are going  to be critical to bolstering Caribbean society as a whole. My Government is fully of the view that social development  cannot and will not occur as long as young people are marginalized, ostracized or disregarded. Social and youth  development must proceed hand in hand.
2.4 Distinguished President, Members, colleagues, the twenty-first century world that we have inhabited is  experiencing unprecedented political, environmental and social upheavals. It is amid this uncertainty that small States  like Saint Kitts and Nevis seek out UNESCO’s comparative advantage and competencies in bringing peace to war-torn  societies and in eradicating all levels of poverty in our societies. UNESCO is needed now more than ever. For Saint Kitts  and Nevis, UNESCO represents not just the conscience of the multilateral system but also one of the few spaces for the  articulation of the sacred voice by giving respect to the fundamental importance of culture and history in our postmodern  deliberations and planning for our future. UNESCO’s existence, and the platform that it provides for intercultural dialogue,  serves as an opportunity and a reminder for us to draw on history and its lessons in devising strategies for a sustainable  future for all of us. To withdraw our support from UNESCO is not just to withdraw from multilateralism but to turn a deaf  ear to the collective generational knowledge of humanity that has been preserved and passed down through the ages.
2.5 Madam President, as we evolve towards new leadership at UNESCO, my Government wishes to put on record  our sincere gratitude to Her Excellency Irina Bokova for her sterling contribution during her long mandate as Director- General of this fine Organization. Her determined efforts to bring about reform within the Organization, specifically in the  areas of gender equity and the geographical distribution of staff, were commendable. Similarly, we would also like to  commend and congratulate the new leader to be ushered in at this session of the General Conference, Her Excellency  Ms Audrey Azoulay of France, and to wish her well in her endeavours to further make UNESCO fit for purpose. Thank  you for your kind consideration.
3. La Présidente :   Merci Excellence. Je donne maintenant la parole à S. E. M. Tomaž Boh, Secrétaire d’État pour l’éducation, les  sciences et les sports de Slovénie. Votre Excellence.
4.1 Mr Boh (Slovenia):   Madam Director-General, Madam President of the General Conference, Mr Chairperson of the Executive Board,  excellencies, distinguished delegates, it gives me great pleasure to address the 39th session of the General Conference  and to share with you some views regarding the important challenges that stand before UNESCO today. On behalf of the
99  Government of Slovenia, and on my personal behalf, I would like to express our sincere gratitude to the Director-General,  Ms Irina Bokova, for her efforts as the head of our Organization. Slovenia fully associates itself with the statements made  on behalf of the European Union.
4.2 The strength of UNESCO was and still lies in its moral and intellectual solidarity, and again we would like to  underline the comparative advantage of the network of UNESCO’s National Commissions – that they are the perfect tool,  both for UNESCO and its Member States, and deserve their appreciation and support.
4.3 UNESCO needs reforms, and in this perspective, among other issues, Slovenia welcomes the nomination of  Ms Audrey Azoulay as the new UNESCO Director-General. This is also why Slovenia actively fulfils its mandate as a  Member of the Executive Board, since we wish UNESCO to be an organization with the focus to meet global challenges  instead of spreading its resources too widely. Many of UNESCO’s core values are closely linked to what the world needs  for development. Without education we cannot solve the challenges of the future. Without cooperation in science we  cannot optimize development. Without culture and cultural diversity we cannot liberate ourselves from narrow- mindedness and thus counteract the struggle for peace. Further, the free exchange of ideas, as stated in the Constitution  of UNESCO, is a solid foundation for peace, cooperation, development and economic growth.
4.4 Slovenia welcomes the integrated budget framework, which will foster the structured financing dialogue in order  to successfully mobilize extrabudgetary funds. Slovenia welcomes the strong focus that UNESCO is placing on the  implementation of the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development within the framework of the Sustainable Development  Goals, which touch the very core of UNESCO’s mandate.
4.5 Dear colleagues, at the present session of the General Conference we will have the opportunity to discuss the  way forward regarding international collaboration in the field of open educational resources (OER) and the adopted  results of the Second World Open Educational Resources Congress, which took place in Ljubljana last September.  International collaboration in OER is one of the ways to implement Sustainable Development Goal 4 on quality education.  At the Congress, the Ljubljana OER action plan and ministerial statement were adopted. Please allow me to express my  sincere appreciation to the UNESCO Education Sector and the Communication and Information Sector for their excellent  cooperation. I would also like to highlight the valuable contribution of the Knowledge Societies Division in preparing and  organizing the excellent event. Our thanks also go to all the partners involved in the organization, especially the  Commonwealth of Learning, Creative Commons and the William and Flora Hewlett Foundation.
4.6 Before concluding, please allow me to talk about one more important topic. Slovenia would like to enhance the  empowerment of young people. Looking ahead, we propose to focus not only on formal education and job creation but  also on human rights education, democratic and global citizenship, education against racism and intolerance and  education to prevent violent extremism. UNESCO has the biggest potential in this field. Therefore, Slovenia wishes to  empower the UNESCO Youth Forum taking place before every session of the General Conference. In cooperation with  the Slovenian National Commission for UNESCO, the Slovenian UNESCO Youth Network organized a preparatory  European youth meeting some weeks ago. The meeting resulted in a list of European UNESCO youth recommendations,  which was presented at this year’s UNESCO Youth Forum and will be presented by young delegates during the meeting  of the SHS Commission (Social and Human Sciences). I strongly wish that UNESCO will continue to perform its role in  the future and that this session of the General Conference will again be a meeting place for different cultures, systems  and beliefs with one common goal: “to build the defences of peace in the minds of men and women”, which can only be  achieved by maintaining the humanist perspective and perception of ourselves and the world around us. Thank you very  much.
5. The President:   Thank you, Your Excellency. Now I will give the floor to Her Excellency, Ms Sanni Grahn-Laasonen, Minister of  Education of Finland.
6.1 Ms Grahn-Laasonen (Finland):   Madam President, Mr Chairperson of the Executive Board, Madam Director-General, distinguished delegates,  allow me first of all to offer you congratulations on your election as President of the General Conference. We also wish to  thank the outgoing President and the Chairperson of the Board. Finland concurs with the European Union statement. As  this is our last session of the General Conference with the outgoing Director-General, I would like to warmly thank you,  Ms Bokova, for all your efforts and dedication to the ideals of UNESCO. Finland looks forward to working as closely with  your successor, Ms Azoulay, and wishes her the best of success.
6.2 Excellencies, Finland sees a great deal of positive development since the last session of the General  Conference. We fully agree with the main threads of the four-year Draft Programme and Budget (39 C/5). It is well  aligned with the United Nations 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development. We believe that UNESCO, a normative actor  with convening power and a rights-based approach, has an important role to play. UNESCO offers unique added value  for the 2030 Agenda. Today, when more cooperation between Member States is needed, not less, Finland deeply  regrets the decision by the United States of America and Israel to withdraw from UNESCO. We recall the ambitions of  UNESCO’s founding fathers and the need to overcome confrontations with dialogue and constructive outcomes. It goes  without saying that we look forward to continuing cooperation with both the United States of America and Israel, and to  seeing them as Member States soon again.
6.3 Finland strongly supports UNESCO’s leading role in coordinating the implementation of Sustainable  Development Goal 4, on education. Access to quality education throughout life is a remedy for poverty and is linked to  other crucial Goals as well, such as on gender equality, health, water and ocean sustainability. We underline the need to  empower women and girls. No girl or boy should be denied the right to education. The role of qualified, motivated and
100  supported teachers is vital. UNESCO is well placed to give policy advice on ensuring the right conditions for teaching,  learning, academic freedom and scientific integrity. Providing a quality education for the whole population is the  cornerstone of Finnish society. We believe in equity. Learning is for everybody. Learning is a lifelong journey. That  should be a guiding principle on the global way to reaching the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). To respond to  changes it takes not only resources but also policy coherence, stronger governance, follow-up of evaluations and  intersectoral work. These elements are essential for UNESCO to meet all relevant SDGs. Therefore, we need  cooperation beyond Governments – partnerships with the broader non-governmental organization community and the  private sector are a necessity. Finland is currently undertaking final discussions with the United Nations about the  establishment in Finland of a new United Nations technology and innovation laboratory to meet the needs of the SDGs.  This highly UNESCO-relevant United Nations initiative will benefit the whole of the United Nations system.
6.4 UNESCO’s role moving onwards is unique in promoting the diversity of cultural expressions and protecting  cultural goods from destruction, looting and trafficking. Finland is one of the proud co-sponsors of the historic United  Nations Security Council resolution 2347 (2017). Finland points, in particular, to equal and open access to information,  freedom of expression and the safety of journalists. As to press freedom we are happy to see, after 27 years, the return  of the World Press Freedom Day to Africa.
6.5 Excellencies, Finland’s four-year term as a member of the World Heritage Committee comes to an end this  month. It has been an honour for us to serve the universal World Heritage ideals. In that same spirit, Finland would be  proud to serve on the Executive Board. It is 16 years since we last held a seat. Finland is the joint – and only – Nordic  candidate, after the expiry of Sweden’s term. We greatly appreciate and count on your support.
6.6 Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, this year Finland celebrates 100 years of independence. The theme of  our centennial is “together”. Since the beginning of our independence, Finland has supported an international order  based on rules and on working together. Global challenges, like achieving the SDGs, need to be addressed together, not  in isolation or only by unilateral actions. Peace, security, human rights and development belong to all of us, from the  smallest islands to the biggest countries. Only together are we strong enough to make a change. Thank you very much  for your attention.
7. The President:   Thank you Madam Minister. Our next speaker is Her Excellency Ms Unity Dow, Minister of Education of  Botswana.
8.1 Ms Dow (Botswana):   Your Excellency Madam President of the General Conference, Madam Director-General of UNESCO,  Mr Chairperson of the Executive Board, heads of delegations, distinguished ladies and gentlemen, good morning. My  delegation and I bring you warm greetings from His Excellency the President of the Republic of Botswana and its people,  and I assure you of our continued commitment to the ideals of UNESCO. Your Excellency, I congratulate you on your  election to the presidency of the 39th session of UNESCO’s General Conference. I assure you of our cooperation as you  direct the deliberations of this session of the General Conference and the next biennium. Allow me also, on behalf of  Botswana, to congratulate Her Excellency Ms Audrey Azoulay on her nomination to the position of Director-General of  UNESCO. Her ascension to that position is a sign of UNESCO’s confidence in her ability to deliver on its mandate. May I  further take this opportunity to offer my Government’s heartfelt gratitude for the way and manner in which the outgoing  Director-General, Ms Bokova, has steered this critically important Organization.
8.2 When one considers the state of the world today, one then appreciates the theme at this session of the General  Conference, which is the Sustainable Development Goals and UNESCO’s role in the multilateral system. In an effort to  promote public education in Botswana and dialogue on bioethics education and research ethics, Botswana, in  collaboration with UNESCO’s regional offices for East and Southern Africa, hosted a regional ethics and bioethics  conference from 17 to 18 October 2017 under the theme “SDGs and the role of ethics in Southern Africa: promoting  bioethics, ethics education and research”. You can see that you can hardly gather without considering the Sustainable  Development Goals and their role in bringing us forward. The conference outcome document recommended  mainstreaming bioethics and research ethics into the curricula of institutions of higher learning and the establishment of  regional networks to promote bioethics cooperation.
8.3 Botswana underscores the role of culture in shaping efforts towards the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable  Development. We are aware that a lack of appreciation of cultural diversity can defeat global efforts towards the  promotion of peace and security among nations. In this regard, strengthening the capacities of Member States in the  implementation of UNESCO’s cultural protocols still remains a priority.
8.4  Madam President, we gather here today under these flags and the uniting flag of the United Nations to recall the  pledge that we have made to the citizens of the world and to renew our path to attaining that pledge. We have promised  the citizens of the world that we can, and will, end poverty and we know that this is possible. We have undertaken to end  world hunger and we know that this is possible because, as a matter of fact, there is or should be enough food to feed us  all. We have the skills to make it happen; we have the resources to make it happen; we just need the will. We have  undertaken to promote good health and well-being and we are aware that very few enjoy amazingly good health while  many still die from preventable diseases. We know that we can turn the tide. We have promised quality education, and  not just for a few wealthy people. We have promised access and equity, and we particularly appreciate the special role of  education in attaining the Sustainable Development Goals and also, we appreciate that if we do not succeed in respect  of the other Goals, then we compromise education. We all agree that gender equality is non-negotiable; that it is an  imperative. We have promised the world equal access to water and sanitation, decent work and economic growth. We  agree that the opportunities for innovation and creativity that are found in the West must be available to the rest of the
101  world. We are aware that we can reach Africa from the comfort of jumbo jets but still perish in the seas as we flee from  Africa. This is a comment on the inequality that exists in the world today. We are aware that homes, neighbourhoods,  villages, streets and cities are not safe and we, the people of the world, are responsible for that insecurity and, therefore,  we must address the issue. We are aware that we are gobbling up resources faster than we can replace them and that  we are poisoning the seas, the air and the earth; and because we could not keep our heads in the sand any more, we  made these 17 promises to the world that now we call the Sustainable Development Goals.
8.5 Botswana acknowledges the role that UNESCO plays in the promotion of democracy, peace, justice and strong  institutions, and among those institutions are independent judiciaries, human rights commissions, electoral commissions,  labour organizations and an independent press. We look to UNESCO, with its projects and programmes, with its ethos,  with its ability to negotiate, create alliances and build bridges, to employ its soft power to facilitate the realization of these  promises. The 17th Goal is the promise that we will all work in partnership and I believe that this cannot be  overemphasized. All Member States must come together and we must work together. It is for this reason that I conclude  my remarks by once again confirming Botswana’s eagerness to be a proud Member of UNESCO. Botswana has  benefited from its membership and hopes that it has contributed to the benefit of others. With that, I say thank you and  pula, which in Botswana means “rain”. May it rain upon us. Thank you.
9. La Présidente :   Merci Madame la Ministre. Je donne la parole à S. E. Mme Olga Gelabert Fabrèga, Ministre de la culture, de la  jeunesse et des sports d’Andorre. Merci.
10.1 Mme Gelabert Fabrèga (Andorre) :   Madame la Présidente de la Conférence générale, Madame la Directrice générale, Excellences, Mesdames et  Messieurs, permettez-moi avant tout, au nom de mon gouvernement, de remercier Mme Bokova pour la page écrite  durant ces huit années et féliciter Mme Azoulay pour sa nomination ; nous l’accompagnerons dans la lourde tâche qui  sera la sienne.
10.2 Le segment ministériel de la Conférence générale est pour nous l’occasion de renouveler notre soutien au  mandat, plus que jamais d’actualité, de l’UNESCO. C’est aussi l’occasion de montrer notre attachement aux institutions  de coopération multilatérale, qui sont les garantes de la compréhension mutuelle et de la coexistence dans un monde  qui fait face à de multiples menaces et violences.
10.3 La forte crise économique que nous avons tous vécue et le dérèglement climatique ont accéléré la recherche  d’un nouveau modèle de développement, plus durable et responsable, respectant le Programme de développement  durable à l’horizon 2030 des Nations Unies et l’Accord de Paris. L’Andorre, petit pays de montagne au cœur des  Pyrénées, s’est résolument engagé dans un processus ambitieux de transformation de son économie vers une  économie verte. Une économie qui, tout en préservant son paysage et ses ressources naturelles comme l’eau, se base  sur une éducation citoyenne de tous les acteurs et en particulier des jeunes. Les nouveaux enjeux de développement  durable ont changé notre approche de la culture, avec une volonté de mettre en avant plus que jamais les valeurs de la  diversité et du patrimoine, et une meilleure gestion des biens et des services culturels. C’est ainsi que notre stratégie  nationale du paysage et la mise en valeur de notre patrimoine naturel et culturel fédèrent différentes générations et  favorisent une image de bien vivre pour nos millions de touristes. L’UNESCO participe de ce changement en mettant à  notre disposition des outils particulièrement efficaces comme : la gestion des sites classés : la Vallée du Madriu-Perafita- Claror, paysage culturel inscrit sur la Liste du patrimoine mondial qui occupe 10 % de notre territoire, est  en train de  devenir un moteur essentiel pour montrer la cohérence entre la force de l’histoire et de la nature, avec des actions de  dynamisation sociale et de loisirs ; des dispositifs conventionnels qui nous permettent de valoriser des traditions  populaires comme l’inscription en 2015 des Feux du solstice d’été dans les Pyrénées sur la Liste  représentative du  patrimoine culturel immatériel de l’humanité. Cette inscription renforce les liens transfrontaliers et la cohésion sociale  avec les communautés voisines de la France et de l’Espagne, qui partagent la pratique de cette fête ; des dispositifs qui  nous permettent de mieux lutter contre le dopage dans le sport, vecteur de cohésion sociale dans la Principauté. Je tiens  d’ailleurs à remercier ici le Fonds pour l’élimination du dopage dans le sport de l’UNESCO, pour l’aide qu’il nous a  apportée afin de développer une politique de prévention et de lutte contre cette pratique déloyale, qui met en péril  l’intégrité et les valeurs du sport.
10.4 Ces trois exemples illustrent des actions concrètes, qui impliquent des secteurs et des acteurs multiples,  favorisent des initiatives locales et œuvrent pour la prévention et une culture de la paix. En parlant de culture pour la  paix, il est ici essentiel de rappeler que c’est sous le patronage de l’UNESCO que nous portons avec fierté un projet  intitulé « Art Camp Andorre », dans le cadre duquel des artistes peintres de pays en conflit se retrouvent tous les deux  ans dans la Principauté en résidence artistique pour échanger sur leurs expériences et exprimer leur attachement aux  valeurs de la paix et du dialogue interculturel. Tous ces projets ne sont possibles que parce que nos ministères  responsables travaillent de concert et ne s’isolent pas dans un bureau ou un secteur. Ils sont tous désormais engagés  dans la réussite d’une économie verte, diversifiée, qui, à l’intérieur du pays et en coopération avec les territoires voisins,  mise sur le partage des connaissances et des compétences et sur un renforcement constant des capacités.
10.5 La mise en place du nouveau modèle de développement, plus qualitatif et durable, s’appuie sur un réseau  associatif engagé et donc bien informé des opportunités et des dispositifs conventionnels. Encore faut-il que chaque État  membre soit conscient de la responsabilité qu’il a d’anticiper l’application d’un dispositif conventionnel et se donne des  moyens d’en diffuser l’information à qui de droit.
10.6 Enfin, l’Andorre attache aussi une très grande importance à la qualité de son système éducatif. Elle est engagée  dans des réformes structurelles qui permettent non seulement d’adapter l’enseignement à ce nouvel environnement  mais aussi de donner aux élèves les outils d’une meilleure compréhension de la complexité du monde, un esprit critique
102  et un apprentissage de la différence. C’est ainsi qu’au-delà des évaluations internes, nous venons de ratifier la  Convention concernant la lutte contre la discrimination dans le domaine de l’enseignement et de faire appel à l’OCDE  pour programmer la mise en place de PISA for Schools. L’éducation pour la citoyenneté démocratique et les droits de  l’homme demeure une priorité.
10.7 L’UNESCO, tout comme les Nations Unies, est engagée depuis des années dans un processus de réforme pour  mieux répondre à son mandat. Elle devra pour cela se recentrer sur son mandat originel et veiller  à mieux cibler et  coordonner ses actions avec toutes les organisations internationales. Mais la réforme  implique tout autant les États  membres qui doivent, plus que jamais, contribuer à l’amélioration continue des pratiques et être en mesure de garantir  l’aide au développement des pays les plus vulnérables.
10.8 Face aux mouvements de repli, l’Andorre fait le choix de l’ouverture et de l’engagement dans le respect. Il n’y a  plus désormais de grands ou de petits pays ; il y a des pays, tous engagés dans le même combat. Chacun à son niveau  et avec sa voix peut et doit promouvoir le dialogue entre les États, pour la culture de la paix. Merci de votre attention.
(12.1) M. Al-Issa (Arabie saoudite) (traduit de l’arabe) :   Madame la Présidente de la Conférence générale, Monsieur le Président du Conseil exécutif, Madame la Directrice  générale, Excellences, Mesdames et Messieurs, que la paix et la miséricorde et la bénédiction de Dieu soient sur vous. Je
103  vous transmets, de cette tribune de l’UNESCO, les salutations du Serviteur des deux lieux saints, le Roi Salman ben  Abdelaziz Al Saoud, ainsi que du Prince héritier Mohammed ben Salman ben Abdelaziz Al Saoud. Je remercie la précédente  direction de cette Organisation pour ses efforts pendant son mandat, et plus particulièrement Mme Irina Bokova. Au nom du  Gouvernement de l’Arabie saoudite, je félicite la nouvelle équipe, conduite par Mme Audrey Azoulay, qui a été nommée au  poste de Directeur général de l’Organisation. Nous vous assurons que l’Arabie saoudite poursuivra sa coopération avec  l’UNESCO dans tous les domaines et qu’elle continuera de lui fournir son soutien, tout en espérant bénéficier autant que  possible de l’ensemble des programmes impulsés par l’UNESCO.
(12.2) Excellences, Mesdames et Messieurs, l’Arabie saoudite a adopté sa Vision 2030, une vision ambitieuse qui prend en  compte les changements en cours à l’échelle mondiale et les progrès technologiques. Nous sommes déterminés à mettre en  œuvre cette vision afin de construire un avenir prometteur, par une réforme du système éducatif et l’adoption de méthodes  d’apprentissage et d’applications technologiques modernes dans tous les domaines de l’éducation. La Vision 2030 souligne,  dans ses objectifs, combien il est important d’inculquer des valeurs positives à nos concitoyens en développant toutes les  composantes du système éducatif, ce qui devrait permettre aux écoles, en coopération avec les familles, de renforcer le tissu  social en donnant à l’étudiant les connaissances, le savoir-faire et le comportement nécessaires pour se construire une  personnalité indépendante dotée d’un esprit d’initiative, de persévérance et de leadership, ainsi qu’un degré suffisant de  conscience personnelle, sociale et culturelle. Afin de réaliser la Vision 2030, le Ministère de l’éducation a lancé des initiatives  spécifiques à travers un programme de transformation nationale visant à faire de l’Arabie saoudite un pays du savoir créatif.  Parmi ces initiatives figurent un programme de transition vers une éducation numérique par le biais d’un projet intitulé « La  porte de l’avenir », ainsi qu’un programme de soutien à la recherche et au développement dans les universités, un cadre  global pour l’évolution professionnelle continue des enseignants et des cadres éducatifs, un modèle pour les programmes  scolaires tendant à ce que l’apprentissage soit désormais axé sur l’apprenant plutôt que sur l’enseignant, l’élaboration d’une  matrice intégrée de compétences personnelles, incluses dans les cursus et les activités extrascolaires, propices à des  réussites générales et pratiques.
(12.3) Excellences, Mesdames et Messieurs, si le Gouvernement de l’Arabie saoudite a tenu à fournir à ses concitoyens  une éducation de qualité, il s’est également occupé des étudiants non saoudiens résidant sur son territoire en accordant des  bourses d’études aux étudiants étrangers, leur permettant ainsi de poursuivre leurs études en Arabie saoudite en bénéficiant  du même traitement que les étudiants saoudiens. Les établissements publics saoudiens comptent plus de 900 000 étudiantes  et étudiants non saoudiens, dont 287 000 venant du Yémen et 148 000 de la République arabe syrienne, deux pays frères.
(12.4) Excellences, Mesdames et Messieurs, le patrimoine est un héritage populaire et social dont la préservation est  essentielle. L’UNESCO, en tant qu’organisation internationale, lui porte un intérêt certain. J’invite les participants à la  Conférence générale à souligner l’importance de la préservation du patrimoine et à maintenir cette question parmi les priorités  de l’Organisation. L’un des objectifs de la Vision 2030 de l’Arabie saoudite consiste à multiplier au moins par deux le nombre  des sites archéologiques en Arabie saoudite. Dans le même esprit, je vous présente une proposition adoptée par le  Gouvernement de mon pays qui vise à renforcer l’identité saoudienne en promulguant une charte sur l’identité nationale, en  en définissant les traits au XXIe siècle. Nombre de programmes éducatifs et médiatiques en découlent. De cette tribune, je  suggère que l’UNESCO prenne exemple sur cette proposition en adoptant une charte similaire dans le but de renforcer  l’identité mondiale. Je prie les participants à la Conférence générale d’adopter cette proposition, qui vise à renforcer l’identité  de l’individu, à développer ce dernier, à l’inciter à la réussite et à l’optimisme, et à le protéger des dangers de la pensée  extrémiste, quelle qu’en soit la source. Nous sommes prêts à coopérer avec l’Organisation et avec tous les États membres  afin qu’ils répondent à cet appel, et à leur apporter notre expérience dans ce domaine. Je vous remercie de votre attention.  Que la paix et la miséricorde et la bénédiction de Dieu soient sur vous.
13. The President:   Shukran. Now I will give the floor to His Excellency, Mr Henrik Asheim, Minister of Education and Research of  Norway.
14.1 Mr Asheim (Norway):   Madam Director-General, excellencies, friends of UNESCO, UNESCO stands at a crossroads. This fall we have  heard a founding member announcing its withdrawal from UNESCO, at a time when the United Nations is more  important than ever. We strongly regret this. Madam Director-General Bokova, in this time of difficulty and severe  financial constraint, you have managed not only to keep the Organization going but also to increase UNESCO’s visibility  on the international agenda. Your legacy at UNESCO will live on and continue under the new leadership. Norway looks  forward to cooperating with the new Director-General in the same committed and engaged manner that we have enjoyed  working with you.
14.2 UNESCO embodies the hopes and future for the children and youth of the world. We need education so that  they can develop their potential and contribute to society; science so that they can understand the world and create jobs  that we cannot yet imagine; culture so that they know who they are and can create for the future; and communication so  that they can make informed decisions and make their decisions known to the world.
14.3 Ladies and gentlemen, the world has experienced unprecedented progress during the last decades. Global  political cooperation and common “rules of the road” have brought us to where we are today. Investing in education is the  most effective way of promoting sustainable development. That is why Norway is working hard to promote education  globally, and why Norway has doubled its aid to global education over the past four years. Prime Minister Solberg and  Ms Bokova were key partners when the International Commission on Financing Global Education Opportunity  was  established in 2015. In its report to the United Nations Secretary-General, UNESCO is rightly identified as a cornerstone  in the global architecture of education. We stand by UNESCO in the implementation of the Sustainable Development  Goal 4. We have chosen to do so through support to the Education Sector and its key institutes. We are pleased to see  that the Capacity Development for Education (CapED) programme is the very core of the new programme of the  Education Sector. We are proud of the tremendous progress made on the global convention on the recognition of higher  education qualifications and I congratulate the Secretariat and the drafting committee, which have made an historic  breakthrough in this field. This convention will make life easier for millions of students who move across borders all over  the world. I am equally pleased that UNESCO is an active partner in the important work for the “Education Cannot Wait”
104  fund. Much has been accomplished but many challenges remain, as the Global Education Monitoring Report shows us.  We also know that there is a long way to go before our oceans are clean again, our common cultural heritage is safe,  until respect for freedom of expression is universally recognized and journalists are safe. This is why, Norway believes,  we must have an even stronger UNESCO for the future. Norway is a candidate for the World Heritage Committee to  actively contribute to this.
14.4 Ms Bokova, Norway has doubled its voluntary contributions to UNESCO during your tenure, not because we  want to fill the gap of those Member States that do not meet their obligations but because we believe in this Organization.  We therefore urge all Member States to fulfil their obligations. If we take the sum of Nordic extrabudgetary funding, I am  proud to say that we are the largest extrabudgetary contributors to UNESCO, providing about 24% of the total  extrabudgetary contributions. We invest in UNESCO and, like all of you, we care about UNESCO. Sweden has done an  impressive job as a Member of the Executive Board. I know that Finland will work as tirelessly for the best of UNESCO  and ask everyone to join me in voting for them.
14.5 Norway fully shares the United Nations Secretary-General’s vision for the United Nations and we actively  support his reform agenda. True to the United Nations reform agenda, Norway endorses many of the suggestions laid  before the General Conference by the working group on governance. UNESCO is in need of reform. It is necessary for  UNESCO to continue to speed up the reform and deliver more efficiently. The progress we have made cannot be taken  for granted. We must defend what we have achieved while working together to ensure sustainability in all that we do. To  face the multitude of challenges, there is no other solution than to work together. This is not a time to drive wedges and  pull apart. It is a time to stand side by side and pull together. Thank you.
15. The President:   Thank you, Minister. Our next speaker is His Excellency, Mr Myo Thein Gyi, Minister of Education of Myanmar.  Your Excellency, you have the floor.
16.1 Mr Thein Gyi (Myanmar):   Good morning. Madam President, excellencies, distinguished delegates, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the  Myanmar delegation I would like to extend our warm congratulations to you on your election as President of the  UNESCO General Conference.
16.2 Madam President, to fully realize the benefits of a quality education system, the Ministry of Education of  Myanmar has been implementing a national education strategic plan (NESP 2016-2021), which is now gradually gaining  momentum. To achieve Sustainable Development Goal 4, the Ministry of Education has set targets, namely “no one left  behind” and “no dropouts” with “no discrimination”. Our Ministry has striven for all primary school students to complete  primary education and pursue secondary schooling through the free primary and secondary education system in  Myanmar. As a result, a total of 1.7 million children are enrolled at kindergartens of public schools, forming a 96.43 per  cent net enrolment rate in the 2016 academic year and 1.25 million six-year-old children at grade 1 level in 2017. The  number of basic education students has also increased year by year, with over 8.1 million in public schools in 2011 and  over 9.1 million in 2017.
16.3 The Ministry of Education ensures inclusiveness and equity by providing a special education programme for  those students with visual impairments and hearing impairments, and remedial education for those who are either weak  in learning or who have low school attendance. In addition, the number of the national ethnic group languages that were  taught at their respective schools has increased from 32 languages in the 2016 academic year to 49 languages in the
2017 academic year. The Ministry of Education has also provided for alternative education by opening a new department,  namely the department of alternative education, and encouraging non-formal education and lifelong learning. The  Ministry of Education has started to transform the present 5-4-2 system of basic education to a new K-12 system since  the 2016 academic year. New curricula for kindergarten and grade 1 have been introduced and those all other grades  will be completed by the 2021-2022 academic year.
16.4 Madam President, the Ministry of Education is committed to reforming Myanmar’s higher education institutions  to enable greater knowledge acquisition and enhancement and to develop research works. The Ministry has also aimed  to develop the English language proficiency and ICT skills of both teachers and students, and to promote deep learning  with a strong focus on research and innovation to meet the country’s social and economic development needs. Joint  research programmes, student exchange programmes and faculty exchange programmes with international institutions  have been encouraged through memorandums of understanding. Quality assurance has been strengthened at the  universities, all of which have academic autonomy. It has also reinforced the quality, relevance and governance of  distance education under the Strategic Partnerships for Higher Education Innovation and Reform (SPHEIR) programme.
16.5 Madam President, the State Counsellor Daw Aung San Suu Kyi has encouraged improving technical and  vocational education and training (TVET) to become first-class education in Myanmar. In this context, the Ministry of  Education is constantly expanding and improving the quality of TVET in the interest of sustained national economic  development. The Ministry of Education recognizes teachers’ vital role in developing the quality of teaching. So two-year  teacher education colleges will be upgraded to four-year education degree colleges and more teacher training  programmes have been offered.
16.6 Madam President, on behalf of the Government of the Republic of the Union of Myanmar, I would like to express  our appreciation to UNESCO for its support for quality education, for the inscription of cultural sites and natural sites on  the World Heritage List, and for access to – and the use of – new communication and information technologies.
16.7 In conclusion, Myanmar has been trying to achieve Sustainable Development Goal 4, its targets and indicators.  To achieve them, the Ministry of Education, working together with development partners, has launched the national
105  education strategic plan with a focus on the principles of education: education must be inclusive, equitable and efficient  for lifelong learning. Our Ministry believes that this plan will help to achieve Goal 4 through the roadmap of the Education
2030 Framework for Action, in mutual collaboration with the international community. Thank you very much.
17. The President:   Thank you, Minister. I will now give the floor to His Excellency, Mr Gustav Fridolin, Minister of Education of  Sweden. Minister, you have the floor.
18.1 Mr Fridolin (Sweden):   Thank you, Madam President. Mr Chairperson of the Executive Board, Madam Director-General, distinguished  delegates, it is an honour to address the 39th session of the General Conference of UNESCO. Sweden fully aligns itself  with the European Union statement.
18.2 With its mandate, UNESCO has a key role to play in the common United Nations struggle for sustainable  development and for a more secure world. The 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development and the Paris Agreement on  Climate Change are proof of what we can achieve when we work together. For we who believe in multilateralism, those  two truly global agreements create hope for a world where we solve common problems through global cooperation. I am  proud to announce that Sweden will provide $500 million to support the implementation of the 2030 Agenda in partner  countries.
18.3 Given the importance of UNESCO, it is deeply worrying that some Member States do not honour their financial  commitments. The budget level at UNESCO is worrying. It has remained largely the same for more than 10 years even  though UNESCO is given more tasks and responsibilities. UNESCO cannot continue to do more with fewer resources.  The budgetary situation is a stern warning to all of us.
18.4 I am proud to be part of a feminist government, the first but the first of many. This means that the Swedish  Government puts gender equality at the very top of our agenda. UNESCO is stepping up its work on gender equality in  the next four-year programme, including gender-disaggregated data and budget tracking mechanisms. Those measures  will bring concrete results. UNESCO is working to make Member States put high-quality education centre stage in  national policies. Sweden believes that education for sustainable development, global citizenship education and  comprehensive sexuality education are fundamental to achieving this. I am very pleased that Sweden is able to  contribute to the financing of UNESCO’s initiative “Our Rights, Our Lives, Our Future”, on sexual reproductive health and  rights, to be launched here tomorrow.
18.5 Madam President, UNESCO’s mandate to promote “the free flow of ideas” is more relevant than ever. Freedom  of expression is a basic human right and a fundamental part of democracy. In the last few years we have seen a  negative development across the world where journalists, artists, elected officials and authors are increasingly  threatened and attacked. Women journalists are worse off, often simply for being women. This has a chilling effect on the  possibilities to express opinions, the role of journalists as public watchdogs and the public debate in general. Today we  celebrate the International Day to End Impunity for Crimes against Journalists. It is unacceptable that journalists are  threatened, jailed or killed for doing their job. This year’s winner of the UNESCO-Guillermo Cano World Press Freedom  Prize, the imprisoned Swedish-Eritrean journalist Dawit Isaak, should be released. UNESCO’s leading role as  coordinator of the United Nations  Plan of Action on the Safety of Journalists and the Issue of Impunity needs to be  reinforced; I also urge Member States to translate the plan into national strategies and practices. We appreciate  UNESCO’s work to preserve the cultural heritage and fight the trafficking of cultural goods, and we welcome the decision  by the International Criminal Court in The Hague that crimes against the cultural heritage are crimes against humanity.
18.6 Distinguished colleagues, Sweden’s four-year mandate on the Executive Board is coming to an end. During our  mandate we have moved forward on issues such as freedom of expression and the safety of journalists, artistic freedom,  the protection of the cultural heritage in conflict, budget reform and the financing dialogue, and the implementation of the
2030 Agenda. These will remain Swedish priorities. At this moment, I would personally like to thank the outgoing  Director-General, Ms Irina Bokova, for her service. She has done much to bring UNESCO closer to the United Nations  family and has been a strong advocate for, among many things, freedom of expression and gender equality. Ms Bokova,  I appreciate your work for UNESCO and wish you continuing strength in your continuing struggle for common values. Let  me also take this opportunity to congratulate the nominated Director-General, Ms Audrey Azoulay, and say that we look  forward to working together with her to make UNESCO even more “fit for purpose”. The founding ideas and principles of  UNESCO are urgent. The Nordic countries are the kind of strong and close friends to the United Nations that the  Organization really needs – the engaged friends, the friends that never hesitate to be upfront and critical when needed,  but the friends that always are clear on our support for the special role that the United Nations needs to play in a world  where we need to solve common problems together. It is important to have a Nordic voice in UNESCO’s Executive  Board. Therefore, we hope that Member States will support Finland’s election to the Executive Board. Thank you.
19. The President:   Thank you, Minister. Our next speaker is Her Excellency, Ms Ásta Magnúsdóttir, Permanent Secretary, Ministry  of Education, Science and Culture of Iceland.
20.1 Ms Magnúsdóttir (Iceland):   Madam President of the General Conference, Mr Chairperson of the Executive Board, Madam Director-General,  distinguished delegates, as this is the last session of the General Conference of Director-General Irina Bokova, allow me  to thank you for your outstanding dedication and commitment to the work of UNESCO. I would also like to express our  congratulations to Ms Audrey Azoulay for her nomination as the next Director-General. We look forward to working with  you in the coming years.
20.2 Since the establishment of this Organization, with human rights and dignity as the starting points, the importance  of UNESCO’s mandate to contribute to the building of peace, eradication of poverty, sustainable development and  intercultural dialogue through education, the sciences, culture, communication and information is as vital today as ever,  and is now supported by the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs).  The 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development  is indeed a remarkable achievement. It is grounded in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, as human rights,  peace and development are inseparable and essential to the successful implementation of the 2030 Agenda. The  violation of freedom of expression, of rights to free assembly and the fundamental rights of women undermines the 2030  Agenda. Iceland knows first-hand the massive potential resting in gender equality and is a dedicated proponent of  women’s rights. We actively work to engage men in the fight for gender equality, with our Prime Minister as a HeForShe  campaign “IMPACT Champion”. We place high priority on reproductive health and rights, and we continue to promote  women’s participation and the peace and security agenda. Empowering women is not only a human rights issue, it is an  economic necessity.
20.3 Madam President, there is no question in my mind that education is the key; the key to lasting peace, the key to  sustainable development and the key to the eradication of poverty. It is my belief that access to education is a  fundamental human right of which nobody should be deprived. In today’s international community, nations are engaged  in never-ceasing competition where it takes a strong economy and a flourishing society to attract young and dynamic  people. Quality education is key to the development of any economy or society. Solid education makes it easier for  young people to find their way in a complex and changing world, besides being the foundation of a strong economy and  of the citizens’ well-being. Education and gender equality are two key elements in the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable  Development. The balance reached in that universal and integrated agenda is an achievement which we should be  proud of. Iceland is particularly proud to have been among the proponents of gender equality and empowerment of  women as overarching elements of our agenda.
20.4 Our aims within UNESCO are also to spread knowledge and promote freedom of expression and global  citizenship, to enhance sustainable development and to encourage acceptance of cultural diversity, just to mention some  areas of concern. These areas are all, first and foremost, addressed through better education. One characteristic of a  just and humane society is the treatment of its minorities. Iceland is deeply committed to continue its work with others  against discrimination of any kind, including on the basis of sexual orientation and gender identity, and to protect and  promote human rights and fundamental freedoms for all. UNESCO has a unique mandate for safeguarding freedom of  expression and the media, which Iceland strongly supports. Not only is this a fundamental human right, which is vital for  open societies, democracy and free market economies, but it is also key to realizing our ambitions in education, science  and culture. The potential of the new media needs to continue to be harnessed in the same spirit of freedom so that we  may best contribute to our goals.
20.5 Ladies and gentlemen, to build a better future for all, we need to accelerate momentum towards the Sustainable  Development Goals; it is about delivering on the collective promise that we have all made. We need to support the data  revolution called for in the 2030 Agenda to ensure that sustainable development plans and policies reach those most in  need. Therefore, it is important that a special focus has been placed on measures of equity and equality in order to  support the development, implementation and monitoring of policies aimed at reducing inequalities and overcoming all  forms of discrimination. To conclude, UNESCO’s role as a champion of peace, understanding and tolerance is as urgent  and vital as ever. Quality education, gender equality and sustainability must be cross-cutting themes in all our work.  Iceland is firmly committed to actively supporting UNESCO in this pursuit and thereby working towards the common good.  Thank you for your attention.
21. La Présidente :   Notre prochain orateur sur la liste est S. E. M. Robert Alagjozovski, Ministre de la culture de l’ex-République  yougoslave de Macédoine. Excellence, vous avez la parole.
22.1 Mr Alagjozovski (The former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia):   Distinguished President of the General Conference, distinguished Director-General of UNESCO, distinguished  Chairperson of the Executive Board, distinguished heads of delegations, excellencies, ladies and gentlemen, the  Government of the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, a UNESCO Member State, pays great attention to  collaboration with the Organization and actively promotes and implements the activities and initiatives in the spheres of  culture, education, science, communication, youth programmes, civil society and human rights, not only at a national but  also at a regional and international level.  The former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia makes efforts to implement active  and constructive cooperation with other UNESCO Member States, based on the democratic principles on which the  Organization endeavours. The current policies and practices in our country are rooted in human rights and freedoms.  Recently, our Prime Minister opened a lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender (LGBT) festival for the first time, not only  in the country but in the whole region. By respecting cultural diversity and raising awareness of the importance of  intercultural dialogue, we strive to overcome stereotypes and to deepen human and friendly relationships among people  to build a more humane world, open to new forms of constructive and creative dialogue, as one of the Organization’s  core commitments.
22.2 In the period since the last session of the General Conference of UNESCO, the former Yugoslav Republic of  Macedonia continued friendly cooperation with the Member States of UNESCO through the implementation of concrete  activities that have contributed to enriching professional experience and capacities in all areas in our country. Additionally,  we have made efforts to participate jointly in efforts to overcome and eliminate the current problems that humanity at the  global level faces: climate change, poverty, intolerance, terrorism and migration. On this occasion, I would mention other  significant activities that we have realized together with UNESCO, such as the proclamation of the Institute for  Earthquake Engineering and Engineering Seismology in Skopje as a category 2 centre under the auspices of UNESCO,
107  and the opening of two UNESCO Chairs in Skopje: the first in Intercultural Studies and Research at the Faculty of  Philosophy and the other in Media, Dialogue and Mutual Understanding at the School of Journalism and Public Relations.
22.3 In 2014 we joined the long-term Programme on Man and the Biosphere (MAB) and, in cooperation with Albania,  we have successfully implemented the proclamation by UNESCO of the Ohrid-Prespa region as a transboundary  biosphere reserve. Our country is actively involved in the project “Towards strengthened governance of the shared  transboundary natural and cultural heritage of the Lake Ohrid region’’, an upstream process implemented by UNESCO  and the European Union, with cross-border cooperation between Albania and the former Yugoslav Republic of  Macedonia for efficiency in the management of the cultural and natural heritage. It is of the utmost importance that we  have inscribed three goods on UNESCO’s Representative List of the Intangible Cultural Heritage of Humanity; this year  we hope to see inscribed, as a multinational application, the “Cultural practices related to March 1”, with Bulgaria, the  Republic of Moldova and Romania; and, together with Turkey, there is also an application for the Hidirellez festival. Our  country, with the proclamation of the city of Bitola as a Creative City in the field of the film, joined the UNESCO network  of Creative Cities.
22.4 Ladies and gentlemen, the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia has successfully and effectively taken part  in large European Union and other international projects on citizen participation in education under the Sustainable  Development Goals. That is why, in this organizational period at each level, the Education 2030 Agenda imposes new  temptations and challenges for quality education, while also providing equal education opportunities for all at the global,  regional and national levels. I would like to emphasize that we continuously strive to improve education quality and  evaluation; to introduce appropriate educational policies and normative legislation, and to formulate strategies and  programmes within the framework of the long-term programme of UNESCO on education for all (EFA), through several  projects under implementation, and on lifelong learning. I am deeply convinced that, despite the complex challenges, we  are going be able to confirm in practice the efforts of UNESCO and its Member States, and that the world can become  more promising and more successful only through encouraging intercultural dialogue; eradicating poverty; developing  educational polices, which aim to be accessible to all; promoting and supporting the creative potential based on cultural  diversity and freedom of expression, and reinforcing international cooperation among countries and all active players in  these progressive processes. Finally, I emphasize that the permanent determination of our country is peace preservation,  the deepening of democratic processes and development in all domains of social life, human rights and freedom  protection and promotion. Thank you for your attention.
23. The President:   Thank you Minister. I will now give the floor to His Excellency Mr Mallam Adamu, Minister of Education of  Nigeria. Your Excellency, you have the floor.
24.1 Mr Adamu (Nigeria):   Madam President of the General Conference, Mr Chairperson of the Executive Board, Madam Director-General,  Permanent Delegates, ladies and gentlemen, this morning I bring your greetings from the President of the Federal  Republic of Nigeria and the Nigerian people, and his wishes for very good deliberations for UNESCO. Madam President,  we congratulate you on your election and we look forward to your guidance throughout the deliberations during this  session. Let me also thank the Honourable Stanley Mutumba Simataa for his efficient leadership as President of the 38th  session. In what he has done, and especially in the speech that he presented last time, he has indeed made Africa proud.  Madam Director-General, Nigeria has valued working with you and we appreciate the growth of cooperation between  Nigeria and UNESCO during your stewardship and, especially, the memorandum of understanding that we signed with  you during your visit to Nigeria in 2016; we look forward to its full implementation. We wish you all the very best for the  future as you retire honourably from this Organization.
24.2 Excellencies, UNESCO continues to move forward in concert with all the other agencies of the United Nations  system to maintain its rightful place as a vital institution in the system, dedicated to the service and interests of its  Member States and of humanity. Nigeria therefore applauds all the efforts of the Organization to improve its efficiency  and to generate all the means essential to fulfilling its mission and mandate. In this context, we look forward to the report  of the evaluation of the intersessional meetings of the Executive Board and that of the working group on governance.
24.3 Madam President, the Government of Nigeria is committed to ensuring that Nigeria achieves the targets set for  Sustainable Development Goal 4, and all the other 16 Goals, by the year 2030. We have concluded a review of the  educational planning processes to ensure the integration of Goal 4 into the Education Sector plans at both the national  and state levels. Our focus is on the repositioning of our educational system for sustainable development and the  production of human capital with the skills necessary for the twenty-first century knowledge-driven economy.  Furthermore, we recognize that sound policymaking, efficient planning, good monitoring and evaluation require credible  data. Consequently, the Nigeria Digest of Education Statistics 2014-2016 and Nigeria Education Indicators 2016 were  recently published to guarantee reliable and timely statistical data for the education sector. Although Nigeria is still  confronted with the adverse effects of the Boko Haram insurgency in the north-east of the country, we have deployed  initiatives that address education in emergency situations through concerted efforts. In this regard, I am very happy to  report that our “safe school initiative” has been largely successful.
24.4 Excellencies, ladies and gentlemen, Nigeria appreciates the technical support of UNESCO in the planning of the  proposed international conference on Lake Chad, which should lead to a comprehensive programme of action to save  the lake from extinction and to bring back the means of livelihood of the people. We also call for the strengthening of the  Management of Social Transformation (MOST) Programme to address some of the social and economic challenges  emanating from the aftermath of the insurgency and because of climate change. In September, Nigeria successfully  hosted the fifth session of the General Assembly of the African Biosphere Reserves Network (AfriMAB). One of the key
108  recommendations of the Assembly was the establishment of an “AfriBio fund” as a sustainable funding mechanism for  the network. We look forward to the support of Member States for the adoption of the draft resolution at this session.
24.5 Excellencies, Nigeria places great importance on the United Nations resolution on the safety of journalists and  the issue of impunity and thanks UNESCO for the recent training of African judges on the legal framework of freedom of  expression, access to information and the safety of journalists.
24.6 Madam President, Nigeria has fully participated in all the consultations that eventually produced consensus on  the budget of the Organization for the next biennium. However, we note the limited funds available in document 39 C/5  for basic sciences. Given the great importance of basic sciences, particularly for developing countries, we would make a  plea that innovative efforts be made to find more funds for this programme. Once again, Madam President, ladies and  gentlemen, I wish all of us successful deliberations. Thank you very much for your attention.
25. La Présidente :   Merci Monsieur le Ministre. Et maintenant je donne la parole à S. E. Mme Claudiana Ayo Cole, Ministre de  l’enseignement primaire et secondaire de Gambie. Madame, vous avez la parole.
26.1 Ms Cole (Gambia):   Madam President of the General Conference, Mr Chairperson of the Executive Board, Madam Director-General  of UNESCO, your excellencies, ambassadors and Permanent Delegates, distinguished representatives of international  organizations, distinguished ladies and gentlemen, let me begin by offering our heartfelt congratulations and gratitude to  you, Ms Irina Bokova, for the invaluable services rendered to Member States and wishing you every success in your  endeavour. I would also like to seize this opportunity to congratulate Ms Audrey Azoulay on her nomination as the new  Director-General of UNESCO.
26.2 Distinguished ladies and gentlemen, today the Gambia is at a crossroads following 22 years of autocratic rule.  The country is undergoing an historic transformation to accelerate the reforms needed to build a stable and democratic  nation. Those reforms focus on improving various aspects of national interest, such as education, science, culture,  information and communication, global citizenship, the rule of law and good governance. They engage all sectors and all  segments of society, especially women and youth. Despite the enthusiastic engagement of the leadership of the country  to demonstrate that the appealing dividends of democracy are worth pursuing, the country is threatened by several  challenges that could potentially erode its chances of achieving sustainable development and peace. The movement is  challenging, but the Gambia recognizes the leadership role that UNESCO could play in catalysing resources and  expertise that are critical to moving the country’s overall development agenda.
26.3 Distinguished ladies and gentlemen, as the Gambia fully associates itself with the African Union’s Agenda 2063  and the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development, our policy reforms and development initiatives are fully aligned with  those international commitments. Accordingly, the recently finalized sector-wide education policy places strong emphasis  on accessible, equitable and inclusive quality education for sustainable development in an attempt to leave no one  behind. The main thrust of this policy is the delivery of quality education, particularly for vulnerable and underprivileged  populations. The Gambia is grateful to UNESCO for the invaluable support provided for the integration of the country into  the Global Observatory on Science, Technology and Innovation Policy Instruments (GO-SPIN). The Gambia also hopes  to become part of the STEM and Gender Advancement (SAGA) project to better streamline the participation of girls and  women in science.
26.4 Distinguished ladies and gentlemen, in the Gambia, culture, as an essential tool to promote peaceful  coexistence, is streamlined and given prominence in all sectoral reforms. The promotion of cultural entrepreneurship and  the fostering of trade relations to include cultural goods and services are vigorously pursued. To date, the Gambia has  ratified the three UNESCO cultural heritage-related conventions. The country is working ardently towards ratification of  all other remaining cultural conventions.
26.5 Distinguished ladies and gentlemen, the Gambia is appreciative of UNESCO’s critical role in promoting youth  and women’s empowerment. Efforts to mainstream gender have resulted in the domestication of international protocols,  such as the Protocol to the African Charter on Human and Peoples’ Rights on the Rights of Women in Africa and the  Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination against Women (CEDAW), among others. My country has  prioritized the participation of its youthful population to address challenges such as illegal migration, lack of adequate  livelihood skills and youth unemployment. In order to mitigate these, structural and institutional reforms for the  development of essential skills for employability and the promotion of global citizenship are put in place through  sensitization and training programmes. The tenth year of the African Youth Charter (Banjul+10) organized in the Gambia  brought together hundreds of youth from across Africa to discuss issues related to peace, youth empowerment and  sustainable development. The important continental event was relevant and empowering as the outcome of the meeting  fed into the “African Union roadmap on harnessing the African demographic dividend through investments in youth”.
26.6 Distinguished ladies and gentlemen, in 2016 the Government of the Gambia initiated a major reform to reshape  information and communication technologies (ICTs) and the environment in the Gambia, and to mitigate challenges that  affected the expansion of ICT usage. The irreversible process in which the Gambia is engaged is that of peace,  democracy and good governance. The role of the media and freedom of expression is critical to that process. The new  Gambia has engaged meaningful legislative reforms for the establishment of a vibrant and professional media.
26.7 In conclusion, we thank you for all the support and humbly ask UNESCO to maintain its visibility as the lead  agency in promoting the development agenda for Africa in collaboration with the African Union. I thank you all for your  kind attention.
27. La Présidente :   Merci Madame la Ministre. Je donne maintenant la parole à S. E. M. Guy Arendt, Secrétaire d’État à la culture  du Luxembourg.
28.1 M. Arendt (Luxembourg) :   Madame la Présidente de la Conférence générale, Monsieur le Président du Conseil exécutif, Madame la  Directrice générale, Excellences, honorables délégués, la 39e session de la Conférence générale a lieu à un moment  crucial de l’histoire de notre Organisation. D’importants défis se dressent devant nous : la montée de l’intolérance et de  l’extrémisme, le changement climatique, la persistance, voire, dans de nombreux cas, la croissance des inégalités en  tous genres. Voilà quelques-uns des problèmes auxquels l’humanité fait face aujourd’hui. Mais ce ne sont pas là des  problèmes insolubles. Les sciences peuvent nous aider à trouver des solutions techniques pour réduire l’impact de  l’homme sur l’environnement ; l’éducation réduit les inégalités et enseigne le respect, la culture nous rapproche en nous  rappelant que l’humanité est profondément une dans sa formidable diversité. C’est la raison pour laquelle nous avons  besoin de l’UNESCO. Nous ne devons pas importer dans cette enceinte les graines qui sèment la discorde ! Refuser la  voie du dialogue et tourner le dos au multilatéralisme n’est pas la solution. Nous regrettons vivement que les États-Unis  et Israël aient décidé de quitter l’UNESCO. En même temps, il faut en convenir, notre Organisation a besoin aussi de se  réformer. Elle doit s’inscrire dans l’effort global du système onusien, défini par le Secrétaire général des Nations Unies,  afin de devenir fit for purpose. Ce n’est qu’à ce prix que l’UNESCO pourra faire face aux épreuves qui sont devant elle et  contribuer à la mise en œuvre du Programme 2030.
28.2 Madame la Présidente, permettez-moi de soulever certaines thématiques auxquelles le Luxembourg accorde  une importance toute particulière. Je salue l’accent mis sur la protection du patrimoine culturel et la promotion du  pluralisme culturel en cas de conflit armé. J’exprime mon plein soutien à l’action de l’UNESCO dans ce domaine vital  pour bâtir des sociétés cohésives. C’est pour cette raison que le Luxembourg a posé sa candidature au Comité pour la  protection des biens culturels en cas de conflit armé, tout comme il s’est joint à l’initiative de la France pour soutenir  l’Alliance internationale pour la protection du patrimoine dans les zones de conflit. En 2018, l’Union européenne  célèbrera l’Année européenne du patrimoine culturel. Au Grand-Duché, cette année est placée sous le signe de trois  thèmes : l’éducation et la sensibilisation à l’importance du patrimoine culturel, le développement durable, et les nouvelles  technologies.
28.3 Le libre accès à une éducation de qualité pour les hommes et les femmes tout au long de leur vie est  indispensable pour le progrès de la société humaine. J’aimerais souligner l’importance toute particulière que le  Luxembourg attache à l’apprentissage tout au long de la vie. L’éducation des adultes est un élément clé dans l’effort  global pour la promotion de sociétés inclusives et équitables, et pour la recherche d’un développement durable. Des  hommes et des femmes bien formés et désireux d’élargir leurs connaissances et compétences tout au long de leur vie  prennent en main leurs destins, s’engagent dans leurs communautés et participent au développement durable de leurs  sociétés. Au Luxembourg, pays multilingue et multiculturel, où les non-nationaux forment 46 % de la population, nous  sommes persuadés de la nécessité de l’éducation des adultes, ceci notamment pour garantir la prospérité du pays et  l’épanouissement personnel et professionnel de tous nos concitoyens.
28.4 Madame la Présidente, le Programme 2030 a pour objectif de garantir aux générations futures un  environnement sain, afin de leur permettre de s’épanouir dans un cadre de vie durable, dans un monde en paix. Une  belle illustration de ce but sont les programmes des « Géoparcs mondiaux » et « L’Homme et la biosphère ». Le  Luxembourg accorde traditionnellement une grande importance à la qualité de l’eau et de ses sols, et à la recherche de  solutions durables pour l’homme et son environnement, et ce aussi bien au niveau national que dans le cadre de sa  coopération au développement. J’ai l’honneur de vous annoncer aujourd’hui que le Luxembourg entend déposer dans un  futur proche des candidatures luxembourgeoises pour ces deux programmes « Geoparcs mondiaux » et « L’Homme et  la biosphère » qui permettront au monde de découvrir les riches facettes naturelles, souvent mal connues, de notre  pays. C’est dans ce contexte aussi que j’aimerais souligner l’intérêt que le Gouvernement luxembourgeois porte à la  science et à la recherche scientifique. De nombreux centres de recherche et l’Université du Luxembourg – qui abrite  d’ailleurs une chaire UNESCO dans le domaine des droits humains – ont fait de substantiels progrès dans les domaines  de la biomédecine, par exemple.
28.5 Enfin, j’aimerais, rejoindre la Directrice générale dans l’importance qu’elle attache à la liberté d’informer et de  s’informer. Mon pays défend de manière déterminée un journalisme libre, exempt de pressions, fondamental pour le  fonctionnement de la démocratie et de l’État de droit. Pour résumer, en tant que citoyens du monde, nous ne sommes  pas les seuls détenteurs des savoirs et des progrès, qu’ils soient pédagogiques, scientifiques ou culturels. Il nous  appartient de les apprécier et de les partager.
28.6 Permettez-moi de conclure en remerciant la Directrice générale sortante, Mme Irina Bokova, pour l’excellent  travail qu’elle a effectué pendant huit ans à la tête de cette Organisation magnifique qu’est l’UNESCO. Au nom de mon  Gouvernement et de la Commission luxembourgeoise pour la coopération avec l’UNESCO, je souhaite à la Directrice  générale nommée, Mme Azoulay, beaucoup d’énergie, de patience et de doigté à la tête de l’UNESCO. Mon pays la  soutiendra résolument dans cette tâche. Je vous remercie pour votre attention.
29. La Présidente :   Merci Monsieur le Secrétaire d’État. Et maintenant je donne la parole à S. E. M. Alfonso Dastis Quecedo,  Ministre des affaires étrangères et de la coopération d’Espagne. Monsieur le Ministre, vous avez la parole.
(30.1) M. Dastis Quecedo (Espagne) (traduit de l’espagnol) :  Madame la Présidente de la Conférence générale, Monsieur le Président du Conseil exécutif, Madame la Directrice  générale, Excellences, Mesdames et Messieurs les délégués permanents, c’est pour moi un grand honneur de représenter  l’Espagne à cette session de la Conférence générale de l’UNESCO, organisation d’une importance capitale et première  institution du système des Nations Unies que l’Espagne ait rejointe. Comme elle, nous sommes pleinement convaincus que  l’éducation, la science et la culture sont le fondement de la paix, de la sécurité, des droits de l’homme, et bien-sûr, d’un  développement durable.
(30.2) L’engagement espagnol auprès de l’UNESCO s’inscrit dans le cadre de notre multilatéralisme actif. Membre du
111  Conseil de sécurité pendant l’exercice biennal 2015-2016, l’Espagne vient d’être élue au Conseil des droits de l’homme pour
2018-2020. Notre présence au sein du Conseil exécutif s’inscrit dans la même perspective. Dans le droit fil de notre récente  élection au Conseil des droits de l’homme, je voudrais souligner le lien entre celui-ci et l’UNESCO. L’Espagne peut se  prévaloir de grandes réalisations en matière de droit à l’éducation et de droit à la culture. Ses politiques publiques dans ces  deux domaines sont très décentralisées, les différentes communautés autonomes qui composent l’Espagne jouant un rôle  important dans leur gestion, dans le respect de la très grande diversité culturelle et linguistique qui caractérise et enrichit mon  pays.
(30.3) La société civile espagnole entretient elle aussi des liens très forts avec l’UNESCO. Nous sommes au deuxième  rang mondial en ce qui concerne le nombre de chaires UNESCO et comptons 180 écoles associées et 28 clubs. Cette société  civile nous demande, en ces temps difficiles et complexes, de ne pas cesser de soutenir l’Organisation. Nous partageons avec  l’UNESCO la priorité de parvenir à une éducation de qualité tout au long de la vie, que toute personne est en droit d’exiger. Le  Programme de développement durable à l’horizon 2030 fixe des objectifs de manière globale et intégrée et confie à  l’UNESCO la gestion du mandat de l’ODD 4, « Assurer l’accès de tous à une éducation de qualité, sur un pied d’égalité, et  promouvoir les possibilités d’apprentissage tout au long de la vie ». L’Espagne participe activement à tous les forums sur les  différentes dimensions du droit à l’éducation au sein de l’Organisation, en s’intéressant particulièrement à la coopération avec  l’Amérique latine et les Caraïbes par l’intermédiaire du Bureau régional pour l’éducation dont dispose l’UNESCO dans cette  région. Au plan national, l’Espagne s’emploie à la conclusion d’un pacte d’État en faveur de l’éducation, en consultation avec  des experts, des enseignants et des institutions éducatives.
(30.4) Dans le domaine de la culture, notre engagement aux côtés de l’UNESCO et pour la défense de ses valeurs est  total. Notre diversité culturelle, protégée et promue par nos institutions et reflétée dans notre modèle d’État, constitue le socle  sur lequel repose notre travail avec l’Organisation. L’Espagne est fermement convaincue de l’importance de la protection et de  la promotion des différentes langues et cultures qui coexistent sur son territoire. Je tiens à saluer l’action de la Directrice  générale, Mme Irina Bokova, qui a récemment lancé diverses initiatives autour de la protection de la culture dans les zones de  conflit. On citera la résolution 2347 du Conseil de sécurité, la première entièrement consacrée à la protection du patrimoine,  qui reconnaît le rôle de l’UNESCO dans ce domaine. Dans toutes ces actions, l’UNESCO a toujours pu compter sur  l’Espagne. Mais la coopération internationale dans le domaine de la culture comporte une autre dimension fondamentale : elle  sert le développement durable, et l’Espagne a été pionnière à cet égard. La valorisation du patrimoine est peut-être le meilleur  moyen d’empêcher sa destruction. Ainsi, l’Espagne organisera en novembre 2018, dans le cadre de l’Année européenne du  patrimoine culturel, un congrès international sur le patrimoine et le développement et espère à ce titre pouvoir compter sur la  participation de l’UNESCO.
(30.5) L’Espagne occupe une place prépondérante sur la scène internationale dans les domaines de la culture et du  patrimoine. C’est pourquoi nous présentons notre candidature au Comité du patrimoine mondial. En ce qui concerne les  conventions relatives à la culture, notre priorité est de contribuer à leur bonne gouvernance, et de les appliquer en les  traduisant dans notre droit interne. Nous nous situons au troisième rang mondial en nombre d’éléments inscrits sur la Liste du  patrimoine mondial. Nous avons également 16 éléments inscrits sur la Liste représentative du patrimoine culturel immatériel  de l’humanité. J’aimerais par ailleurs mentionner tout particulièrement l’expérience espagnole dans le domaine du patrimoine  subaquatique. En août dernier, une équipe pluridisciplinaire espagnole a extrait deux canons datant du XVIIe siècle du site de  l’épave de la frégate « Mercedes », à la plus grande profondeur jamais atteinte par une équipe de fouilles d’un pays européen.  Et parce que nous sommes à la pointe dans ce domaine, divers projets d’appui à la signature, à la ratification et à l’application  de la Convention de 2001 par plusieurs pays d’Amérique latine ont été financés au moyen du Fonds d’affectation spéciale  Espagne/UNESCO. Je voudrais terminer cet aparté par une réflexion sur le rôle de la culture dans les programmes de  développement. Le Programme de développement durable à l’horizon 2030 ne comporte aucun ODD spécifique concernant la  culture. Seuls le préambule et quelques objectifs font explicitement référence à la culture. L’Espagne considère néanmoins  qu’il n’y a pas de développement durable sans diversité culturelle.
(30.6) J’aimerais évoquer, en dernier lieu, l’engagement de l’Espagne dans le domaine des sciences et de l’environnement.  L’Espagne, qui compte le plus grand nombre de réserves de biosphère dans le monde, soutient la création de réseaux de  réserves régionales tels qu’IberoMaB et EuroMaB et, dans le même esprit, accueille à Castellet i la Gornal (province de  Barcelone) le Centre international sur les réserves de biosphère méditerranéennes. Mesdames, Messieurs, nous sommes  tous conscients des défis complexes et décisifs auxquels l’Organisation est confrontée. Comme elle l’a toujours fait, l’Espagne  continuera de la soutenir en défendant fidèlement ses buts et objectifs et en contribuant à sa viabilité financière. Mon pays,  onzième contributeur au budget de l’UNESCO, alimente par ailleurs un fonds d’affectation spéciale pour la réalisation de  projets d’intérêt commun. Pour conclure, l’Organisation doit transformer défis et difficultés en autant d’opportunités qui lui  permettront de mener à bien une réforme de sa gouvernance et d’assurer avec efficacité et efficience son indispensable rôle  de chef de file de l’agenda mondial. Je vous remercie.
31. La Présidente :   Merci beaucoup Excellence. Et maintenant je donne la parole à S. E. Mme Youssouf Hadidja Alim, Ministre de  l’éducation de base du Cameroun. Madame, vous avez la parole.
32.1 Mme Alim (Cameroun) :  Madame la Présidente de la Conférence générale, Madame la Présidente du Conseil exécutif, Madame la  Directrice générale de l’UNESCO, Mesdames et Messieurs les chefs de délégation, Excellences, Mesdames et  Messieurs les ambassadeurs et délégués permanents, Mesdames et Messieurs, c’est pour moi un grand honneur et un  immense plaisir de prendre la parole ce jour devant cette auguste assemblée, au nom de la République du Cameroun.  En cette circonstance solennelle, permettez-moi tout d’abord de présenter mes vives et chaleureuses félicitations, à la  suite des éminents orateurs qui m’ont précédée à cette tribune, à S. E. Mme Zohour Alaoui pour sa brillante élection au  prestigieux poste de Présidente de la 39e Conférence générale de l’UNESCO. Madame la Présidente de la Conférence  générale, votre compétence, votre engagement ainsi que votre dynamisme, bien connus au sein de notre Organisation,  sont autant d’atouts qui augurent du plein succès de la mission qui vient de vous être confiée. Vous pourrez toujours  compter, dans l’accomplissement de votre délicate mission, sur le soutien de mon pays, qui s’honore, en outre, d’avoir  été porté à la vice-présidence de cette 39e session de la Conférence générale. Je saisis également cette occasion pour  remercier et féliciter S. E. M. Stanley Mutumba Simataa, Président de la 38e session de la Conférence générale de  l’UNESCO, pour l’efficacité et le dévouement dont il a fait preuve tout au long de son mandat. Je tiens également à
112  saluer la compétence et la dextérité avec lesquelles il a assumé ses fonctions de Président du Groupe de travail à  composition non limitée sur la gouvernance, les procédures et les méthodes de travail des organes directeurs de  l’UNESCO. Ces précieuses qualités lui ont permis d’apporter une contribution remarquable à la mise en œuvre des  résolutions de la 38e session de la Conférence générale. Permettez-moi également d’adresser mes chaleureuses  félicitations à M. Michaël Worbs, Président du Conseil exécutif, pour le doigté et l’expertise avec lesquels il a mené la  préparation de nos assises.
32.2 Excellences, Mesdames et Messieurs, tout comme la dernière session de la Conférence générale de l’UNESCO  a été un moment important dans la vie de l’Organisation, marquée d’une pierre blanche par la célébration de son
70e anniversaire, la présente session se situe dans un contexte particulier. En effet, cette session va connaître un  passage de témoins entre la Directrice générale sortante et la Directrice générale entrante. Je voudrais donc ici  commencer par rendre un vibrant hommage à Mme Irina Bokova, première femme élue au poste de Directeur général de  l’UNESCO, qui aura, pendant huit années consécutives, tenu fermement et avec opiniâtreté les rênes de notre  Organisation. Madame la Directrice générale, le savoir-faire, l’endurance, le courage et la ténacité dont vous avez fait  preuve tout au long de votre mandat, resteront à jamais gravés dans nos mémoires. L’histoire retiendra que sous votre  ère, notre Organisation a réalisé de grandes avancées vers la modernité.
32.3 Pour ce qui est du Cameroun, nous nous félicitons du renforcement de la richesse et de la densité de notre  coopération avec l’UNESCO, illustrée notamment par : l’ouverture à Yaoundé du Bureau régional multisectoriel de  l’UNESCO en Afrique centrale, qui couvre 11 pays ; la création de plusieurs radios communautaires ; la création du  Centre d’excellence en microscience, centre de catégorie 2 de l’UNESCO à Yaoundé ; l’organisation, toujours à  Yaoundé, du 24 au 26 octobre 2016, du premier Forum MOST pour les pays de l’Afrique centrale et le Nigéria, dont les  résultats obtenus ont été édifiants en termes de partage d’expériences ; l’accompagnement de l’UNESCO dans la mise  en œuvre du projet « Bimbia, la route des esclaves », qui porte sur la restauration du site de Bimbia, port  d’embarquement des esclaves sur la côte Atlantique du Cameroun. Je ne saurais oublier votre mémorable visite officielle  dans mon pays les 15 et 16 septembre 2014, vous qui y avez été anoblie par les notables du village Bokova et qui  voudrez sans doute nous revenir, même à titre personnel. Dans la même veine, il me plaît de rappeler ici que notre pays  a été honoré de la visite, du 10 au 14 octobre 2016, de S. E. M. Stanley Mutumba Simataa, Président de la 38e session  de la Conférence générale de l’UNESCO. Ces deux visites symbolisent la qualité des relations qui unissent le Cameroun  à l’UNESCO. Madame la Directrice générale, comment ne pas rappeler la visite officielle du Président de la République  du Cameroun, S. E. M. Paul Biya, au Siège de l’UNESCO en novembre 2015, à l’occasion de la tenue du Forum des  dirigeants dans le cadre de la célébration du 70e anniversaire de la création de notre Organisation. Il était accompagné  pour la circonstance de la Première dame du Cameroun, Mme Chantal Biya, Ambassadrice de bonne volonté de  l’UNESCO pour l’éducation et l’inclusion sociale, dont l’action dans le domaine de l’éducation et de l’assistance aux  couches sociales défavorisées est particulièrement saluée par la communauté nationale. Au cours de cette visite, le  Chef de l’État avait délivré, du haut de cette tribune, un message de paix, de tolérance et de solidarité.
32.4 Madame la Présidente de la Conférence générale, Excellences, Mesdames et Messieurs, la 39e session de la  Conférence générale nous offre l’occasion de réaffirmer l’engagement du Cameroun à œuvrer de concert avec la  communauté internationale à la réalisation des ODD. Dans ce domaine, le Cameroun se réjouit, à l’instar des autres  pays africains, de constater que les programmes phares de la Stratégie opérationnelle révisée pour la priorité Afrique  sont effectivement en mesure de jouer un rôle catalyseur dans le développement durable du continent. Je puis déjà vous  dire que, depuis leur adoption, le Cameroun a réalisé des progrès indéniables dans le domaine des ODD. Nous  continuons à y travailler résolument.
32.5 Excellences, Mesdames et Messieurs, je voudrais terminer mon propos en réaffirmant que le Cameroun a  toujours apporté son appui à l’UNESCO, et qu’il continuera de le faire, afin de soutenir les réformes envisagées. Et nous  n’avons aucun doute que la nouvelle Directrice générale, Mme Audrey Azoulay, sera à la hauteur de cette noble tâche.  Nous saisissons l’occasion pour lui adresser nos chaleureuses félicitations et plein succès dans ses nouvelles fonctions.
32.6 Par ailleurs, au regard des difficultés financières que traverse l’Organisation, et face aux défis que représentent  la montée des extrémismes violents, les replis identitaires et la persistance des inégalités socioéconomiques, seul un  effort conjugué de tous ses membres permettra  à l’Organisation d’assurer honorablement ses missions. Je vous  remercie pour votre aimable attention.
33. La Présidente :   Merci Madame la Ministre. Et maintenant je donne la parole à S. E. M. Muhadjir Effendy, Ministre de l’éducation  et de la culture d’Indonésie.
34.1 Mr Effendy (Indonesia):   As-salāmu ‘alaikum wa-rahmatu llāhi wa-barakātuh. Madam President of the General Conference,  Mr Chairperson of the Executive Board, Madam Director-General of UNESCO, Excellencies, ladies and gentlemen, let  me begin by joining others in congratulating Your Excellency Ms Zohour Alaoui on your election as the President of the
39th session of the General Conference. I would also like to congratulate His Excellency Ambassador Michael Worbs for  leading the Executive Board for the past two years and, of course, I also take this opportunity to express our deep  appreciation to the Director-General, Ms Bokova, for her excellent and inspiring leadership of this Organization for the  past eight years. We will welcome and congratulate the new Director-General to be elected later at this session.
34.2 Excellencies, it has been two years since the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development was unanimously  adopted and we have committed ourselves to working tirelessly for the full implementation of that agenda. It is time for us  to reflect on what we have achieved and what must be accomplished in the future. Indonesia has built a legal base for
113  the implementation of the Sustainable Development Goals by enacting a presidential decree signed by President Joko  Widodo in July this year, followed by the establishment of a national coordination team.
34.3 Indonesia has achieved very significant progress in the education sector. Enrolment in early childhood education  has reached 72.3%. Earlier this year, Indonesia was awarded the first UNESCO Prize for Girls’ and Women’s Education  for its outstanding programme in gender mainstreaming. Primary school gross enrolment has reached more than 100%  and the dropout rate has been reduced to 0.26%. The youth literacy rate has reached almost 100%. These are the  outcomes of the Smart Indonesia Programme, a pro-poor policy that guarantees that every child from a poor background  can continue education until grade 12. We have also revitalized the national curriculum by integrating correctors,  competencies and literacy to equip students with twenty-first century skills. Revitalization of vocational education is  another top priority that we have just commenced.
34.4 Indonesia is actively strengthening its capacities in science and technology, which is a pivotal element for a  knowledge-based economy. We are hosting the Asia-Pacific Centre for Ecohydrology and the IOC Regional Training and  Research Centre on Marine Biodiversity and Ecosystem Health. Indonesia remains committed to preserving the  outstanding universal value of the tropical rainforest heritage. We just hosted the World Press Freedom Day 2017 event,  showing our strong commitment to building free, independent and responsible journalism. Recognizing that culture is the  DNA of sustainable development, Indonesia organized the World Culture Forum in Bali in 2013 and 2016. The Forum  adopted the Bali Declaration, which re-emphasized our commitment to mainstreaming culture into policy.
34.5 Excellencies, looking ahead, Indonesia wishes to emphasize that attaining the Sustainable Development Goals  is indeed a critical agenda for UNESCO. UNESCO must be at the forefront in devising new and creative ways to  encourage reform of education to ensure our younger generation is ready to enter a more digitalized and technology- driven economy. UNESCO must also be ahead of solving current global challenges: growing inequality, the spread of  radicalism, intolerance and extremism, the rise of racism and prejudice, and the continued degradation of ecosystems.  As a responsible member of the international community, Indonesia stands ready to contribute to the global discourse in  finding the best possible ways for UNESCO to help to create a better world in which to live.
34.6 In conclusion, I have the honour to announce Indonesia’s candidacy to the Executive Board of UNESCO for the  period 2017-2021. We certainly would appreciate full support from UNESCO Member States for our candidacy. Let us  make UNESCO a home of hope, peace and humanity. I thank you.
35. La Présidente :   Notre prochain orateur est S. E. M. Liviu-Marian Pop, Ministre de l’éducation nationale de Roumanie.  Excellence, vous avez la parole.
36.1 Mr Pop (Romania):   Madam President of the General Conference, Mr Chairperson of the Executive Board, Madam Director-General,  excellencies, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to express from the outset the support of the Romanian delegation for  the objectives of the current session of the UNESCO General Conference, which reflect the priorities of our Organization  in a very complex political and strategic environment. In my capacity as the Minister of National Education of Romania, I  wish to congratulate, in the name of my Government, Ms Audrey Azoulay on her nomination by the Executive Board as  the next UNESCO Director-General; I look forward to seeing the nomination approved by the General Conference next  week. Madam President, two years after the adoption of the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development, the 39th  session of the General Conference comes at a time when further concrete steps need to be taken in order to  successfully reach the 17 Sustainable Development Goals. Also, I would like to thank and congratulate the current  UNESCO leadership for the Draft Programme and Budget for 2018-2021 (39 C/5).
36.2 Ladies and gentlemen, Romania fully supports the achievement of Sustainable Development Goal 4. The  national strategies that Romania has developed beyond 2015 in the field of education include the targets that support  that Goal and therefore set out concrete and tailored measures. In order to consolidate the Romanian education system  on the basis of high quality and relevance, we have started a comprehensive reform process. The design of the national  curriculum on key competences, the development and mainstreaming of early childhood education and care and the  revitalization of technical and vocational education and training are only some of its main components. In addressing the  rapid transformations and the new challenges of our times, we have chosen in Romania the path of innovation. As a  result, we have introduced digital school textbooks and the study of information and communication technologies and  computing at the lower secondary school level. In addition, we are interested in developing the field of open educational  resources. Moreover, considering the orientation of higher education systems worldwide towards internationalization, as  well as the increasing number of people pursuing academic and professional mobility, UNESCO’s initiative for a global  convention on the recognition of higher education qualifications is very much welcomed.
36.3 At the same time, we must note the need for an integrated vision of scientific research as a driver for sustainable  development. Romania is currently putting into practice a national strategy for research and development innovation  for 2014-2020. I would like to stress that Romania welcomes and supports the new changes regarding the status of  scientific researchers. We take the opportunity to mention that in Romania such a status is currently being approved,  which includes the provisions to be adopted at the present session of the General Conference.
36.4 Ladies and gentlemen, Romania is closely following the evolution of the increasingly complex issues associated  with the protection and promotion of the cultural heritage. As many heritage sites are in danger, it is our duty to support  the revision of the 2012-2020 strategic action plan so as to ensure real protection for UNESCO cultural and natural  heritage sites in case of terrorist acts, armed conflicts, natural disasters and other threats.
36.5 Ladies and gentlemen, before drawing to a close, I wish to reiterate Romania’s determination to further support  UNESCO’s work at all levels and to strengthen our collaboration with Member States in order to fulfil the mission of our  Organization. Thank you for your attention.   :الرئيسة ٣٧  واآلن أعطي الكلمة ملعايل السيد حامت بن سامل، وزير الرتبية يف تونس
(38.1) M. Ben Salem (Tunisie) (traduit de l’arabe) :   Au nom de Dieu, le Clément, le Miséricordieux. Madame la Présidente de la Conférence générale, Monsieur le  Président du Conseil exécutif, Madame la Directrice générale, Excellences les chefs de délégation, j’aimerais tout d’abord  féliciter Madame la Présidente de la Conférence générale de l’UNESCO et, également, la nouvelle Directrice générale, qui a  su gagner la confiance des États membres pour prendre la direction de l’UNESCO. Je ne dois pas non plus omettre de  remercier la Directrice générale sortante, Mme Irina Bokova, pour les efforts qu’elle a déployés pendant son mandat à la tête  de l’Organisation.
(38.2) Mesdames et Messieurs, l’accumulation des problèmes économiques, sociaux, financiers, alimentaires et écologiques  a affecté le système économique international, le jetant dans une crise parfois aiguë. Notre choix stratégique commun, à la  lumière de ces conditions, est de répondre aux défis contemporains en accompagnant l’UNESCO dans l’exécution de sa  mission et en lui accordant les moyens nécessaires pour aider les pays membres à avancer dans la réalisation du Programme  de développement durable à l’horizon 2030 et de l’Accord de Paris sur le climat. Il s’agit de trouver des solutions appropriées  aux problèmes affectant l’éducation et la culture qui menacent la paix internationale et, en tout premier lieu, au problème du  terrorisme, qui a fait de l’éducation et de la culture ses premières cibles.
(38.3) Mesdames et Messieurs, depuis son indépendance, la Tunisie mise sur l’éducation comme vecteur fondamental du  développement. À cet égard, nous insistons sur l’importance de l’éducation inclusive et de qualité pour atteindre le  développement durable. Selon nous, réaliser cet objectif implique de s’inscrire dans l’Initiative mondiale pour l’éducation avant  tout. En ce qui concerne les sciences, nous soutenons et apprécions les programmes de l’UNESCO en faveur de la  coopération intellectuelle internationale et du partage des moyens afin de renforcer les capacités scientifiques et  technologiques pour réaliser le développement durable, préserver l’environnement, et mettre à contribution les sciences  sociales et humaines pour renforcer la cohésion sociale et améliorer la qualité de vie.
(38.4) Mesdames et Messieurs, si nous voulions trouver l’image que le peuple tunisien se fait de l’UNESCO, ce serait sans  aucun doute l’image d’une organisation vouée à la protection et à la préservation du patrimoine culturel et naturel. Cette image  est confirmée par la façon dont la société civile en Tunisie tente de protéger et préserver le patrimoine matériel et immatériel.  La proposition tendant à l’inscrire sur la Liste du patrimoine mondial est devenue une demande populaire urgente. Nous  soutenons vigoureusement la focalisation des programmes de l’UNESCO sur le rôle fondamental que jouent la culture et le  patrimoine dans le développement pour renforcer les diverses formes de liberté de pensée, d’expression, de créativité et  d’ouverture aux cultures du monde. La Tunisie réaffirme qu’elle approuve l’adoption, par le Conseil de sécurité, de la  résolution 2347 (2017) sur la protection du patrimoine, qui considère que la destruction occultée et volontaire du patrimoine  est un crime de guerre. Dans le domaine de la communication et de l’information, nous approuvons totalement l’orientation  prise par l’UNESCO d’utiliser les technologies modernes pour généraliser l’ouverture en matière d’éducation. Vous n’êtes pas  sans savoir que l’un des éléments les plus importants d’une éducation de qualité est qu’elle soit compatible avec l’identité  nationale et ouverte sur le monde, afin de contribuer à la formation d’une génération forte de nobles valeurs humaines  communes et capable de participer efficacement à une valorisation culturelle, développementale et scientifique pour le bien de  la communauté.
(38.5) Mesdames et Messieurs, heureusement, la réalité nous montre une autre facette, celle du réveil des peuples et de  l’expression claire de leur attachement aux nobles valeurs humaines telles que la liberté, la démocratie, l’aspiration à une  égalité générale et la détermination à faire du progrès matériel et de la justice sociale des réalités concrètes, ainsi que le rejet  de l’extrémisme et de l’enfermement. À cet égard, la Tunisie soutient totalement la cause du peuple palestinien et son  ambition de créer un État souverain qui réponde à ses demandes légitimes, qu’il s’agisse d’éducation, de culture ou d’une vie  démocratique libre et sûre. Les immenses défis auxquels le monde est confronté et la soif qu’ont les peuples de vivre dans un  milieu sûr, digne et florissant nous poussent vers une alliance et une solidarité contre l’extrémisme intellectuel et idéologique,  cause de tant de tragédies pour l’humanité. À partir de ce constat, nous exprimons notre optimisme quant à un avenir plus  rayonnant pour nos peuples, et nous renouvelons l’adhésion de la Tunisie aux principes de l’Organisation, ainsi que sa pleine  volonté de contribuer effectivement à ses projets et programmes. Que Dieu nous accorde tout le succès nécessaire pour le  plus grand bien de nos peuples. Que la paix et la miséricorde et la bénédiction de Dieu soient sur vous.
39. La Présidente :   Je donne maintenant la parole à S. E. M. Stanislav Štech, Ministre de l’éducation, de la jeunesse et des sports  de la Tchéquie. Excellence, vous avez la parole.
40.1 M. Štech (Tchéquie) :  Madame la Présidente de la Conférence générale, Madame la Directrice générale, Monsieur le Président du  Conseil exécutif, Mesdames et Messieurs, permettez-moi tout d’abord de féliciter la Présidente de la Conférence  générale à l’occasion de son élection à cette fonction, et de lui souhaiter beaucoup de force et de succès lors de son  exercice. Pour commencer, j’aimerais remercier la Directrice générale sortante, Mme Irina Bokova, qui était à la tête de  cette organisation dans des temps vraiment difficiles. Je la remercie pour ses efforts visant à réformer cette Organisation  afin d’augmenter son efficacité et d’améliorer la coopération avec d’autres institutions du système des Nations Unies.  J’aimerais également féliciter Mme Audrey Azoulay pour sa nomination au poste de directeur général de l’UNESCO. Si  elle est élue, son travail sera sans doute bénéfique pour l’Organisation et nous serons très honorés de pouvoir travailler  avec elle.   (L’orateur poursuit en anglais)
40.2 Madam President, today UNESCO faces several key challenges that will have to be addressed by the new  UNESCO leaders. The withdrawal announced by the United States of America and Israel is just the proverbial tip of the  iceberg. As with real icebergs, the really serious problem lies deeper under surface and one does not spot it at first  glance. All around the world we have seen the rise of forces waging a campaign of repression against education, culture  and freedom of expression and destroying the cultural heritage of us all. Against this background, any step towards the  politicization of UNESCO is a step that definitely undermines UNESCO’s credibility. It is exactly because of politicization  that many people tend to view UNESCO through the prism of political debate instead of looking at the Organization’s  practical achievements. Naturally, UNESCO cannot avoid addressing political issues from time to time. However, it must  never lose sight of its chief mission, which is to build peace and security through education, science and culture.  UNESCO must always take a firm stand against anybody misusing education, science and culture for political ends. We  believe that to rebuild its credibility, UNESCO must return to its roots and revisit the ideas on which it was founded more  than 70 years ago. I am convinced that this might also help to relieve UNESCO’s difficult financial situation, a situation  that is largely the side-effect of excessive politicization. However, revisiting the original ideals and objectives does not  mean forgetting about the challenges of the present time. Let us keep in place all the good things that UNESCO has  created over the past 70 years, and let us discard everything that has outlived its purpose, everything that UNESCO  does not need any longer. Less is more.   (The speaker continues in French)
40.3 Madame la Présidente, la Tchéquie considère la contribution de l’UNESCO à la réalisation de l’Objectif de  développement durable 4 (ODD 4) comme une contribution clé, car seuls des citoyens éduqués peuvent garantir un  développement durable. Nous soutenons également le programme Éducation pour tous. La société actuelle est une  société en évolution rapide, et c’est à ces évolutions qu’il faut adapter les objectifs de l’éducation et les programmes
116  scolaires. L’UNESCO devrait s’atteler aussi à d’autres priorités comme le financement durable de l’éducation et surtout  le soutien à la formation des enseignants.   (L’orateur poursuit en anglais)
40.4 We very much appreciate that culture is included in the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development and the  Sustainable Development Goals. Czechia deplores the unprecedented destruction of cultural heritage that we are  witnessing today. We welcome the international community’s efforts to stop this “cultural cleansing” and we fully support  the implementation of the relevant United Nations Security Council resolutions. Czechia’s humanitarian aid and  development cooperation programme for the Syrian Arab Republic includes projects helping to save the world’s cultural  heritage. In the area of natural sciences, Czechia is strongly aware that we must urgently act on issues such as climate  change and biodiversity loss, issues that seriously endanger human development on our planet. We also highly  appreciate the results achieved by the UNESCO Global Geoparks.   (The speaker continues in French)
40.5 Madame la Présidente, pour terminer, j’aimerais vous assurer que la Tchéquie est un partenaire constructif qui  soutient le multilatéralisme, le système des Nations Unies et l’UNESCO. Merci pour votre attention.
41. The President:   Merci, Monsieur le Ministre. I will now give the floor to His Excellency Mr Matthew Opoku Prempeh, Minister of  Education of Ghana. Your Excellency you have the floor.
42.1 Mr Prempeh (Ghana):   Madam President of the General Conference, Mr Chairperson of the Executive Board, Madam Director-General  of UNESCO, Excellencies, distinguished ladies and gentlemen, the Ghana delegation joins previous speakers to  congratulate you, Madam, on your election as President of the 39th session of the General Conference of UNESCO. We  wish you a successful tenure of office and assure you of our support.
42.2 Madam President, Ghana commends UNESCO for being at the forefront of multilateral efforts to achieve the  Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), and in particular Goal 4, and the Education 2030 Agenda, which our  Organization has been entrusted to lead and coordinate. In Ghana, the Government of the President Nana Addo Dankwa  Akufo-Addo has rolled out its flagship free senior high school policy within nine months of assuming office, in direct  response to SDG target 4.1. This ambitious policy includes the removal of cost barriers, the expansion of educational  infrastructure and improvements in equity and quality. Overnight, we have moved access from a historical 65-70% to
94% this year, giving access to nearly 100,000 more students. We have started tackling the stresses associated with this,  and we call upon our development partners in the wider UNESCO community for their needed support. Additionally, we  are embarking upon a reform of teacher education and training, leading to a new bachelor’s degree. We are reforming  basic school curricula to focus on the fundamentals of reading, arithmetic, writing and creativity, and including history as  a course. We are transforming and realigning all technical and vocational institutions under the Ministry of Education to  foster effective regulation, standardization and certification. We are reforming tertiary education to make it more  accessible and affordable and more relevant to the world of work. These, we believe, will harness the transformative  power of education to create a society of opportunities for the empowerment of all Ghanaian youth.
42.3 Madam President, Ghana salutes UNESCO for its comprehensive interdisciplinary approaches to tackling  climate change through the network of biosphere reserves, world heritage sites, as well as the geoscience programme.  We endorse the climate change strategy and efforts towards the development of ethical principles in relation to climate  change to guide human activities that impact on the climate. UNESCO’s climate change strategy is anchored in the  fundamentals of basic sciences and therefore if the strategy is to have the desired impact on Africa and small island  developing States, then we need to scale up and strengthen the basic sciences programme as we roll out the  Programme and Budget for 2018-2021 (39 C/5). Ghana, having led the celebration of the International Year of Light and  Light-based Technologies in 2015, supports the call for purposeful collaboration between the basic and applied sciences  in order to achieve the targets set by the UNESCO strategy on climate change.
42.4 Madam President, Ghana applauds UNESCO’s advocacy role in promoting culture and the diversity of cultural  expressions through the Organization’s normative instruments. UNESCO is widely credited with focusing international  attention on the strong link between culture and development and continues to promote actions including research in this  area. A survey in Ghana on the economic impact of indigenous Ghanaian industries conducted by UNESCO showed that  the cultural and creative sector is indeed a great asset, with the potential to create enormous wealth and jobs in the  Ghanaian economy. In consequence, the parliament of Ghana has ratified seven UNESCO cultural conventions, thus  paving the way for the country to fully engage with these instruments and leverage these linkages for socioeconomic  development. Allow me, Madam President, to mention that Ghana’s continued exploration for oil has necessitated the  urgent need for UNESCO’s assistance in safeguarding and protecting our territorial underwater cultural heritage through  the implementation of the 2001 Convention on the Protection of the Underwater Cultural Heritage. Ghana therefore  seeks UNESCO’s expertise to help us build our institutional capacity in this important area.
42.5 Madam President, UNESCO and the African Union have made good progress at promoting the pedagogical use  of the General History of Africa. The Government of Ghana is fully committed to this project, which is in line with its  objective of re-invigorating the teaching of history in our schools and Africa as a whole. By this, we will be promoting our  common heritage and fostering mutual understanding, regional integration and peace on the continent.
42.6 Madam President, Ghana endorses UNESCO’s efforts at building a free, independent and pluralistic media and,  in particular, the legal framework. In this light, the Ghanaian Government is pleased to be hosting the 2018 edition of
117  World Press Freedom Day, on 3 and 4 May 2018, in Accra. We look forward to welcoming you all to enjoy the legendary  Ghanaian hospitality.
42.7 Finally, Madam President, the Government of Ghana would like to thank Ms Irina Bokova for her great service to  this Organization and to Africa in particular. We wish her well in her future endeavours. To the incoming Director-General,  Ms Azoulay, we welcome you and wish you success. We believe you will uphold the tenets of UNESCO by striving to  bring back the Member States that have indicated their withdrawal from the Organization. You will work to promote the  universality of UNESCO. I thank you for your attention.
43. The President:   Thank you Minister. Our next speaker is His Excellency Mr Costas Kadis, Minister of Education and Culture of  Cyprus. Thank you.
44.1 Mr Kadis (Cyprus):   Excellencies, distinguished delegates, two years ago the United Nations family set forth the 2030 Agenda for  Sustainable Development. The principles of inclusiveness, integration, equality and universality that govern the
2030 Agenda have been incorporated into UNESCO’s programme in the fields of education, science and culture. We  acknowledge that the Organization has an important role to play in providing guidance and essential tools for policy  planning in these fields. Cyprus was actively involved in the development of the 17 Sustainable Development Goals  (SDGs) and their 169 targets. An important milestone for Cyprus was the drafting of the voluntary national review for the  United Nations’ High-Level Political Forum on Sustainable Development in 2017, under the coordination of the Cyprus  Ministry of Foreign Affairs. The drafting process offered Cyprus’ relatively small administration an opportunity to  commence the mapping of all activities and strategies that can be linked with the SDGs, reinforcing in this way our  chances to succeed in their achievement.
44.2 The Ministry of Education and Culture, as the competent authority for Goal 4, on quality education, has made  significant progress in implementing that Goal and its targets. Specifically, Cyprus provides free and accessible  education to everyone at all education levels in urban and rural areas without discrimination. The ongoing humanitarian  and refugee crises in the wider Mediterranean region, forcing people to seek a better future in neighbouring countries,  has inevitably increased the number of migrant children in the Cypriot school system. To this end, an action plan is being  rolled out for the mapping of the migrant student population, for teaching Greek as a second language, adopting  measures for the reception, transition and inclusion of migrants and implementing teacher training and anti-discrimination  actions. Education is the key to achieving the majority of the SDGs. Education for sustainable development (ESD)  requires knowledge and skills that are promoted effectively in the Cyprus education system on a systematic basis, in  formal and non-formal teaching environments, based on the national action plan that we have developed on ESD. I take  this opportunity to make a special reference to the new Mediterranean Action Plan for Education for Sustainable  Development adopted by the ministries of education in 14 countries and five international organizations, including  UNESCO. The Action Plan was presented at a ministerial conference held last December in Nicosia and lays the ground  for using education to address the challenges to sustainable development in the Mediterranean region.
44.3 Cyprus, acknowledging that “transforming our world” can only be achieved with the engagement of youth, has  recently adopted a national youth strategy, designed with the direct involvement of young people. The overall aim of the  strategy is to enable young people to realize their full potential as active citizens.
44.4 In relation to UNESCO’s efforts to protect people and the heritage against all possible threats, humanity is still  witnessing worldwide violations of human rights and the irreparable destruction of the cultural heritage. During its recent  chairmanship of the Committee of Ministers of the Council of Europe, Cyprus attached priority to the conclusion of a  convention on offences related to cultural property. The Nicosia Convention on Offences relating to Cultural Property is a  unique instrument for enhancing the legal framework against trafficking in cultural goods. To be most effective, this  instrument requires universal participation. I would therefore encourage you to consider acceding to it. I wish to pay  special tribute to the recent experience we have had in Cyprus through the “Pafos 2017 – European Capital of Culture”  programme. The city of Pafos, a renowned world heritage site, throughout this year has offered unique and high quality  cultural experiences. The concept of the open air cultural factory, which characterizes Pafos as a European Capital of  Culture, has been essentially an open invitation to artists, citizens of all backgrounds and visitors to come together and  co-create different projects under the motto “linking continents – bridging cultures”.
44.5 Excellencies, in closing I would like to assure you of Cyprus’ commitment to the realization of UNESCO’s goals,  especially at this time when the Organization is facing historic challenges. We will continue to fully collaborate with our  partners within the framework of this Organization to promote peace and solidarity among people through education,  sciences and culture. Education is the most efficient tool for diffusing the ideas and principles of the 2030 Agenda.  Strong political will is a key factor for achieving a sustainable future for generations to come and for the benefit of all of  us. Thank you.   :الرئيسة ٤٥  ملغرب.يف ا املتكلم التايل هو معايل السيد حممد األعرج وزير الثقافة واالتصال ،واآلن
(46.1) M. Laaraj (Maroc) (traduit de l’arabe) :   Louange à Dieu l’unique, la prière et la paix sur le plus noble des prophètes. Madame la Présidente de la  Conférence générale, Monsieur le Président du Conseil exécutif, Madame la Directrice générale de l’UNESCO, Excellences  les chefs de délégation, Mesdames et Messieurs, c’est pour moi un bonheur et un grand honneur de prononcer aujourd’hui le  discours du Maroc devant cette assemblée distinguée de personnalités venant de toutes les parties du monde pour servir le  noble objectif qu’est l’examen de nos problématiques communes dans les domaines de l’éducation, de la culture et de la  communication. Je voudrais tout d’abord présenter mes plus sincères félicitations à Mme Zohour Alaoui pour la confiance  qu’elle a recueillie auprès des représentants des États membres, qui l’ont élue Présidente de la Conférence générale. Je  transmets également mes félicitations à Mme Audrey Azoulay qui a été élue Directrice générale de l’UNESCO. Je dois
119  également exprimer mes remerciements à Mme Irina Bokova, Directrice générale sortante de l’UNESCO, pour sa glorieuse  action en faveur du renforcement des principes et des objectifs de développement, de progrès et de paix.
(46.2) Sous la sage tutelle de S. M. le Roi Mohammed VI, le Maroc, avec son histoire ancienne et sa culture riche et variée,  qui témoignent d’une ouverture au reste du monde et à la cohabitation des nombreuses cultures qui coexistent sur son  territoire, souscrit activement aux nobles objectifs de l’UNESCO depuis son adhésion à l’Organisation en 1956. La conduite,  par S. A. la Princesse Lalla Meryem, de la délégation marocaine au Forum des dirigeants est une indication certaine du  prestige exceptionnel dont jouit notre vénérable organisation au Maroc.
(46.3) Mesdames et Messieurs, étant donné que le temps qui m’est imparti ne me permet pas de mentionner tous les  aspects de la vaste coopération qui lie mon pays à l’UNESCO, je me contenterai de présenter quelques points. Dans le  domaine de la culture, le Maroc a préparé, avec le soutien de l’Organisation, la Stratégie de développement culturel basé sur  le patrimoine culturel à l’horizon 2020, dans le cadre du programme conjoint « Le patrimoine culturel et les industries créatives  comme locomotives du développement au Maroc ». Cette stratégie tient compte des aspects économiques du patrimoine  culturel et fournit un cadre approprié pour la coopération avec l’UNESCO dans le domaine de la préservation et de la  valorisation du patrimoine culturel. Cette coopération internationale s’est poursuivie parallèlement à l’effort national, ce qui a  permis, particulièrement pendant la dernière décennie, de placer la culture au rang des priorités nationales au Maroc en en  faisant un facteur essentiel de développement. Ainsi, le secteur de la culture a connu une transformation profonde, reflétée  dans la Constitution de 2011, qui a placé la culture et la diversité culturelle et linguistique au cœur des préoccupations du  Maroc. Cette transformation a incité mon pays à adopter une stratégie claire et efficace. Toutes ces réalisations s’articulent de  façon harmonieuse avec les principes fondamentaux de la Convention de l’UNESCO sur la protection et la promotion de la  diversité des expressions culturelles, ratifiée par le Maroc.
(46.4) Mesdames et Messieurs, dans le domaine de la communication et de l’information, je voudrais attirer votre attention  sur la promotion de la liberté d’expression et de la presse au Maroc, une priorité gouvernementale ancrée dans la Constitution  de mon pays, qui garantit la liberté de la presse. Cela est illustré par le programme gouvernemental visant à renforcer la  situation des institutions journalistiques, une série de réformes étant directement liée au renforcement des bases d’un  journalisme libre et responsable. À cet égard, la situation de la liberté de la presse et de l’information au Maroc a connu une  évolution sensible ces dernières années, conformément aux normes définies par l’UNESCO. En ce qui concerne la promotion  de la liberté d’expression, l’arsenal juridique a été renforcé au Maroc par la promulgation d’un code de la presse et de l’édition,  composé de la loi sur la presse et l’édition, de la loi sur le statut des journalistes professionnels et de la loi sur le Conseil  national du journalisme, un organe indépendant élu pour l’autogestion du journalisme. L’adoption de ce code moderne, avec  ses exigences avancées répondant aux stipulations de la Constitution et visant à garantir la liberté dans l’exercice du  journalisme et la protection des droits et libertés de la société, a constitué un pas en avant dans le sens d’un renforcement des  libertés au Maroc. En ce qui concerne le droit d’obtenir des informations, le Gouvernement a préparé un projet de loi sur cette  question. Ce projet en est actuellement au stade de l’approbation au titre du chapitre 27. C’est ainsi que le Maroc entend  renforcer la protection des journalistes. Ces mesures seront suivies de l’adoption d’exigences juridiques importantes pour la  protection des journalistes contre les attaques dont ils sont victimes dans l’exercice de leur profession : la loi sur la presse et  l’édition prévoit que « les pouvoirs publics s’engagent à fournir des garanties institutionnelles pour la protection des  journalistes contre les attaques dont ils sont victimes dans l’exercice de leur profession ». En outre, un mécanisme de  réclamations a été institué en cas d’attaques contre des journalistes. En ce qui concerne l’égalité des genres, la loi sur la  communication audiovisuelle, modifiée et complétée, contient des dispositions relatives à la promotion de la culture de l’égalité  et de l’équité ; cette loi exige des contractants de l’audiovisuel qu’ils s’emploient à promouvoir la culture de l’égalité entre les  sexes et qu’ils combattent la discrimination fondée sur le genre, notamment les stéréotypes en la matière.
(46.5) Mesdames et Messieurs, le Maroc place l’éducation pour le développement de la société au cœur de ses priorités.  C’est pourquoi, il a adopté une stratégie pour 2015-2030, stratégie intégrée pour la réforme de l’école visant à réaliser l’équité  et l’égalité des chances, et à établir des écoles d’excellence, d’ouverture et d’ascension sociale. Le Maroc partage aussi les  valeurs et les principes fondamentaux de l’UNESCO, tels que le développement durable et la protection de l’environnement.  Ses réalisations et ses activités reflètent clairement son engagement en faveur des nobles objectifs de l’Organisation. Le  Maroc compte sur le soutien et l’accompagnement de l’UNESCO pour mettre l’éducation, la culture, l’information et le  développement durable au cœur des politiques de développement inclusif et organiser avec succès des ateliers ouverts. Merci  de votre attention. Le Maroc vous souhaite plein succès pour cette Conférence. Que la paix et la miséricorde et la bénédiction  de Dieu soient sur vous.
47. La Présidente :   Et maintenant je donne la parole à S. E. M. Shamsiddin Orumbekzoda, Ministre de la culture du Tadjikistan.  Excellence, vous avez la parole.
(48.1) M. Orumbekzoda (Tadjikistan) (traduit du russe) :   Madame la Présidente, Madame la Directrice générale, Mesdames et Messieurs les délégués, Mesdames,  Messieurs, permettez-moi tout d’abord de vous transmettre les chaleureuses salutations de notre Président, leader de la  nation et de tout le peuple du Tadjikistan ensoleillé, à tous les participants de la Conférence générale et de vous féliciter,  Mme Zohour Alaoui pour votre élection au poste éminent de Présidente de la Conférence générale, de féliciter la Directrice  générale nouvellement élue, S. E. Mme Audrey Azoulay, pour sa nomination à une haute fonction et un poste à responsabilité  et de lui souhaiter le succès dans sa mission de promouvoir les idées et le mandat de l’UNESCO par le développement de  l’éducation, la science et la culture. Je souhaite également transmettre les remerciements du Gouvernement de la République  du Tadjikistan à Mme Irina Bokova pour l’efficacité du travail accompli, ainsi que pour les liens étroits et la coopération mis au  service de la consolidation de la paix et du développement de l’éducation, la science et la culture.
(48.2) Jamais la mission de l’UNESCO n’a été d’une plus grande actualité qu’aujourd’hui, dans un contexte marqué par la  mondialisation, où les liens réciproques et la diversité doivent servir de fondement à l’édification de la paix dans l’esprit de  toutes les générations. Jamais la devise de culture de la paix qui est celle de l’UNESCO n’a mieux exprimé la nature et le  caractère de l’action poursuivie par l’Organisation. Étant donné que ce noble objectif ne peut être atteint que par une  amélioration de la qualité de l’éducation, la sauvegarde et la transmission aux futures générations des biens culturels, le  développement de la science et la protection de l’environnement, le Gouvernement du Tadjikistan, sous la houlette de son  Président et leader de la nation, Emomali Rahmon, s’emploie sans relâche à renforcer et développer le rôle de l’UNESCO à
121  l’intérieur de ses frontières et dans le reste du monde. Nous partageons l’aspiration de la direction de l’UNESCO à consolider  le rôle de l’Organisation dans les États membres par le renforcement des capacités des commissions nationales.
(48.3) La République du Tadjikistan, sous la houlette de son Président, depuis les premiers temps de son indépendance,  accorde une grande importance à sa coopération totale avec l’UNESCO. Depuis deux décennies, cette coopération avec  l’UNESCO et ses centres de catégorie 2 établis dans le pays a permis de réaliser de nombreux programmes et projets qui ont  apporté une contribution significative au développement des domaines de l’éducation et de la science, ainsi que de la  sauvegarde du patrimoine culturel matériel et immatériel, et de leur transmission aux générations futures. Le Tadjikistan  entend à l’avenir continuer à approfondir sa collaboration avec l’UNESCO et à raffermir le rôle de l’Organisation dans le pays  et dans le reste du monde.
(48.4) Je souhaiterais également saisir l’occasion qui m’est offerte pour attirer l’attention des participants à la Conférence  générale sur les problèmes les plus urgents de notre époque que sont la protection de l’environnement, le changement  climatique, la gestion rationnelle de l’eau et un accès adéquat à l’eau potable. À cet égard, le Président de la République du  Tadjikistan, S. E. Emomali Rahmon, a proposé de proclamer une nouvelle décennie de « l’eau pour le développement  durable », ce qui s’inscrit assurément dans les tendances mondiales actuelles. Dans le cadre des Nations Unies, la période
2018-2028 a été proclamée Décennie internationale d’action sur le thème « L’eau et le développement durable », qui est la  quatrième initiative mondiale du Tadjikistan sur les questions liées à l’eau. Conformément aux objectifs et buts de la Décennie,  le Président du Tadjikistan a proposé à l’occasion d’une table ronde de haut niveau l’idée de sa mise en œuvre, soutenue par  un ensemble de mesures et d’actions pour sa réalisation. Je suis convaincu que tous les participants à cette conférence  soutiendront cette noble initiative.
(48.5) L’action de l’UNESCO dans le domaine de la sauvegarde du patrimoine culturel matériel et immatériel de l’humanité  est intimement liée à l’idée de culture de la paix. Nous exprimons notre reconnaissance au Comité du patrimoine mondial et  au Comité intergouvernemental de sauvegarde du patrimoine culturel immatériel de l’UNESCO pour leur soutien à la  sauvegarde du patrimoine culturel matériel et immatériel du Tadjikistan. De nombreux participants connaissent bien notre  longue histoire et savent que nos ancêtres ont apporté une contribution significative au développement de la civilisation  mondiale. Le patrimoine culturel riche et unique que ceux-ci ont laissé derrière eux incarne fondamentalement les idéaux de  l’humanisme, de la coopération et de l’enrichissement mutuel des cultures, de la tolérance et de l’ouverture à autrui. Dès les  premiers jours de son indépendance, le Tadjikistan a inscrit dans ses priorités la question de la préservation de ses traditions  culturelles séculaires. Cette volonté s’est traduite au niveau de l’État par une politique culturelle ciblée et significative, qui à  bien des égards se conforme aux dispositions et aux exigences des conventions de l’UNESCO. Dans le cadre de la  coopération régionale, le Tadjikistan plaide pour la constitution rapide du dossier pour la candidature de la proposition  d’inscription en série de « la Route de la soie » et sa soumission au Comité pour la préservation du patrimoine mondial. Dès
2013, la République s’est dotée d’un programme spécial de défense et de reconstruction des monuments historiques, qui est  en voie de mise en œuvre. C’est avec une joie particulière que je rappelle que dans le cadre de la célébration des dates  mémorables inscrites sur la liste de l’UNESCO pendant la période 2016-2017, le Tadjikistan a mené un ensemble d’activités  scientifiques et culturelles, à laquelle ont activement participé de nombreux scientifiques et artistes de différentes parties du  monde, ce qui a été l’occasion de diffuser les idées et les objectifs de l’UNESCO en matière d’échanges interculturels entre  les peuples. Il est encourageant de savoir qu’à la session du Comité intergouvernemental de sauvegarde du patrimoine  culturel immatériel, qui s’est tenu à Addis-Abeba, la fête nationale de Navruz et le plat traditionnel Oshi Palav ont été inscrits  sur la Liste représentative du patrimoine culturel immatériel de l’humanité. Aujourd’hui, nous proposons d’inscrire sur cette  liste une autre fête, celle de Mekhrgan.
(48.6) À cet égard, nous jugeons opportun, dans le cadre du mandat de l’UNESCO, d’élaborer en commun des approches  et des méthodes nouvelles et plus efficaces pour constituer des bases solides au développement du dialogue interculturel, qui  constitue l’un des plus importants facteurs de rapprochement et de compréhension entre les peuples, favorisant la diffusion  des idées de paix et de prospérité dans le monde entier. Pour conclure, je souhaiterais adresser mes vœux de réussite dans  ses travaux fructueux à la 39e session de la Conférence générale et à l’UNESCO en général, sur laquelle nous fondons  beaucoup de nos espoirs pour la paix, le bien-être et la prospérité. J’assure à tous que le Gouvernement et le peuple du  Tadjikistan continueront de mettre tout en œuvre, comme l’ont noté les orateurs qui m’ont précédé, pour l’édification de la paix  et le renforcement de la sécurité jour après jour dans le monde entier. Je vous remercie de votre attention.   :الرئيسة ٤٩  .اليونسكو لدى لليمن الدائم املندوب السفري الصياد، أمحد الدكتور سعادة إىل الكلمة أعطي واآلن
(50.1) M. Sayyad (Yémen) (traduit de l’arabe) :   Madame la Présidente de la Conférence générale, mon amie Zohour Alaoui, Monsieur le Président du Conseil  exécutif, Madame la Directrice générale, Excellences, Mesdames et Messieurs, permettez-moi de vous saluer et de vous  transmettre les salutations du peuple yéménite, qui apprécie l’action de notre vénérable organisation, qui a fait de l’éducation  un élément de base, de la culture une conduite, et de la paix et du renforcement de l’idéal de liberté, de démocratie et de  tolérance une méthode et un message.
(50.2) Mesdames et Messieurs, au Yémen, nous espérions que l’éducation, sa généralisation et la réduction des écarts à  ses divers stades seraient un pas approprié et nécessaire dans la marche vers un développement global et durable. Nous  espérions avoir le soutien de la jeunesse car nous sommes convaincus que les jeunes d’aujourd’hui sont les leaders de  demain, et qu’une génération consciente est un moteur fondamental pour le développement et la construction. Nous croyions,  et nous continuons de croire, que le dialogue et la passation démocratique et pacifique du pouvoir doivent être une démarche  automatique dans notre vie à tous les niveaux. Mais, malheureusement, comme vous le savez tous, les forces de la guerre et  de la destruction ont pris le dessus sur les forces de la paix et de la construction. Le Yémen s’est embarqué dans une spirale  de guerre et de confrontation militaire absurde. Nous assistons aujourd’hui à la destruction de créations du passé que nos  parents et nos aïeux avaient préservées. Les initiatives de l’UNESCO visent à préserver ce patrimoine et les créations du  passé de la vague destructrice des confessions, des clans, de l’ignorance religieuse et des bombardements militaires, qui  détruisent la civilisation du peuple et les gloires de la nation. Hélas, des écoles sont détruites, des enfants et des adultes sont  assassinés, et des familles sont expulsées de leurs maisons, tandis que la violence et la désolation anéantissent l’espoir de  l’amour, de la vie et de la construction. Permettez-moi, Mesdames et Messieurs, de répéter ce que j’ai déjà eu l’occasion de  dire dans cette enceinte : comme chacun sait, la guerre destructrice au Yémen et les confrontations terribles que connaît le  monde arabe ne s’arrêteront jamais aux frontières d’un seul pays. Aujourd’hui, les guerres ne connaissent pas les frontières,  les migrations dépassent les continents et le terrorisme franchit les frontières de tous les pays, ce qui nous oblige tous à agir  de concert pour mettre fin à ces guerres et confrontations, quelles que soient les religions auxquelles nous croyons, les  civilisations auxquelles nous appartenons, les langues que nous parlons, les identités, grandes ou petites, auxquelles nous  tenons. Nous devons donc faire cesser les guerres et renforcer les valeurs de tolérance, de dialogue, de coexistence, de  culture de la paix et d’amour, au lieu de répandre une culture de la guerre et de la haine. Nous devons rendre à l’UNESCO les  idéaux et les objectifs pour lesquels elle a été fondée et dont le monde entier a aujourd’hui plus que jamais le plus grand  besoin.
(50.3) En conclusion, Madame la Présidente, permettez-moi, alors que je félicite la nouvelle Directrice générale et que je  l’assure de notre soutien, de m’adresser à Mme Irina Bokova. Mesdames et Messieurs, je suis peut-être un des rares  ambassadeurs à avoir émis quelques critiques au cours des dernières années, mais Mme Bokova les a toujours accueillies  avec un sourire merveilleux et beaucoup de magnanimité. Alors qu’elle est sur le point de quitter l’UNESCO, il ne me reste  qu’à exprimer mon appréciation pour ses efforts et pour tout le travail qu’elle a fourni à la tête de l’Organisation. Je terminerai  par une citation du combattant Nelson Mandela : « Notre liberté restera partielle tant que le peuple palestinien n’aura pas  obtenu sa propre liberté et tous ses droits ». Merci beaucoup.
51. La Présidente :   Merci Excellence. Et maintenant je donne la parole à S. E. Mme Ambika Devi Luintel, Ambassadrice, Déléguée  permanente du Népal auprès de l’UNESCO. Excellence, vous avez la parole.
52.1 Ms Luintel (Nepal):    Madam President of the General Conference, Madam Director-General, Mr Chairperson of the Executive Board,  Excellencies, ladies and gentlemen, I express my sincere thanks to the Director-General, Ms Irina Bokova, for the  excellent organization of the 39th session of the General Conference of UNESCO. I convey the best wishes of the  Government and the people of Nepal for its success. UNESCO is uniquely placed in matters pertaining to education, as  its mandate covers all facets of education, including science, culture, social science, information and communications.  While appreciating UNESCO’s contributions to the Member States in these areas, we would like to see the continuity of  UNESCO’s enhanced role specifically in the developing world. At the same time, let me reaffirm Nepal’s firm commitment  to the ideals of UNESCO and to the furtherance of its role and activities.
52.2 Madam President, we recognize the importance of the Programme on Man and the Biosphere (MAB) and the  International Hydrological Programme (IHP) of UNESCO. In this context, it will be relevant to mention that the  International Centre for Integrated Mountain Development, established in 1983 under the MAB programme, has been  working in the environmental conservation of the Hindu Kush-Himalayas. I am pleased to bring to your notice that the  MAB National Committee of Nepal has recently initiated activities to design the first biosphere reserve in the country for  advocacy and awareness raising on scientific, environmental, social and development issues in the Himalayan  ecosystem. As we are all aware, the consequences of global warming have been adversely affecting mountain regions.
123  Melting ice in the Himalayas may cause glacial lakes to flood, resulting in widespread damage to the biodiversity not only  of Nepal but also of the entire South Asia region. The issue thus demands the need to accelerate appropriate  programmes with added urgency, including measures under the MAB Programme and the IHP programme and the  sustainable use of natural resources, where UNESCO can play a pivotal role. The IHP-Nepal, in coordination with  UNESCO ISP and other related agencies in Nepal, is participating in river basin planning and integrated water resources  management (IWRM) training as a part of the eighth phase of the IHP programme (IHP-VIII), on water security.  Furthermore, the Nepal IHP National Committee intends to establish a UNESCO category 2 centre, the knowledge  centre on water resources and climate change adaptation in Nepal, with the support of UNESCO. Since rivers play an  important role in the livelihood of all humankind, we would like to see UNESCO taking an initiative for a dedicated  intersectoral programme to link “life and rivers” and the implementation of water programmes.
52.3 Excellencies, Nepal recognizes education as the key foundation to promote universal values of compassion,  tolerance, mutual respect, inclusion and sustainable development, including gender and climate change. In addition, the  Constitution of Nepal has established that education is a fundamental right: free and compulsory basic education, free  secondary education and free higher education for the targeted group. Over the years, the education sector in Nepal has  made significant progress in terms of human development indicators, including gender parity and cycle completion.  Focus has also been given to information and communication technologies, while designing curricula, teacher training  and providing computers to schools. Technical and vocational education and training (TVET) has also been introduced in  secondary education. The Government recognizes the importance of lifelong learning and non-formal education as an  important tool for developing human capital. In spite of these achievements, Nepal still has a long way to go in terms of  equity, quality and efficiency. Ensuring education for out-of-school children, the construction of school buildings damaged  by the 2015 earthquake, the development of skills for life, work for all age groups and resource constraints are some  other challenges. We urge UNESCO to enhance its contribution to addressing these challenges for the effective  implementation of the Sustainable Development Goals so as to ensure that no child is deprived of education and other  basic human rights. With the completion of the Millennium Development Goals, the implementation of the Sustainable  Development Goals is well on the way, with a view to elevating Nepal to middle-income country status by 2030. Within  the framework of the Incheon Declaration adopted at the World Education Forum 2015, a school sector development  plan is being carried out as a successor to education for all (EFA) in Nepal.
52.4 Distinguished delegates, the promulgation of the Constitution in September 2015 marked the culmination of the  long and arduous efforts and sacrifices of the Nepali people over a period of seven decades. The new Constitution  guarantees the liberty and fundamental freedoms of the Nepali people and also ensures gender equality, justice,  progress and prosperity for all. As per the provisions enshrined in the Constitution, various policies have amply focused  on media ethics, security and capacity building for journalists, among others. This shows our commitment to ensuring the  safety of journalists with appropriate measures. For the first time in our political history, Nepal has entered into a federal  republic set-up under the recently completed local-level elections in which an overwhelming majority of Nepali people  exercised their voting rights. Similarly, provincial and federal level elections are going to be held in November and  December this year. Thus, with the implementation of the Constitution democracy will be institutionalized, which should  pave the way for achieving economic growth, sustainable peace and development.
52.5 Madam President, recent years have witnessed a significant increase in the destruction of the cultural heritage  worldwide, either due to natural disasters or through barbaric attacks of violent extremism. In this regard, UNESCO’s role  for the conservation and protection of these assets, including those in Nepal, is commendable. In that context, I would  like to inform you that the Government of Nepal has taken concrete steps towards post-earthquake conservation,  reconstruction and rehabilitation of world heritage sites, especially in the Kathmandu Valley, in line with the six-year  recovery master plan and post-earthquake conservation guidelines drawn up in 2015.
52.6 Finally, I take the opportunity to express our sincere gratitude to Ms Irina Bokova for her effective stewardship of  UNESCO during her tenure and her support for Nepal. I wish her all the best for her future endeavours. Thank you for  your attention.
53. La Présidente :   Merci Excellence. Et maintenant je donne la parole à S. E. M. Pavel Latushko, Ambassadeur, Délégué  permanent du Bélarus auprès de l’UNESCO.
(54.1) M. Latushko (Bélarus) (traduit du russe) :   Madame la Présidente, Monsieur le Sous-Directeur général, Excellences, Mesdames et Messieurs, au nom de la  délégation de la République du Bélarus je suis heureux de saluer tous les participants à la 39e session de la Conférence  générale de l’UNESCO. Le Bélarus exprime sa reconnaissance à la Directrice générale de l’UNESCO, Irina Bokova, pour le  travail fructueux accompli à ce poste à responsabilité et souhaite à la nouvelle direction de notre Organisation succès et  efficacité dans son action.
(54.2) Le Bélarus, État membre de l’UNESCO depuis 1954, avance pas à pas sur la voie de son développement, et occupe  une place solide parmi les pays à indice élevé de développement humain. Le Bélarus a remporté d’importants succès dans le  domaine de l’éducation, la science et la culture et s’emploie activement à atteindre les objectifs du Programme de  développement durable à l’horizon 2030.
(54.3)  Nous sommes persuadés qu’en dépit des crises auxquelles notre Organisation a dû faire face ces derniers temps,  l’UNESCO continuera de tenir un rôle de chef de file dans la mobilisation de l’action internationale en faveur de l’éducation, la  science, la culture, l’innovation et les nouvelles technologies. Grâce à son large mandat, l’UNESCO doit apporter une  contribution essentielle pour permettre à ses États membres d’atteindre les objectifs de développement durable  correspondants d’ici à 2030. Nous considérons que sur cette voie l’action dans le domaine de l’éducation pourrait être la plus  fructueuse. Car le développement de l’éducation, la participation du plus grand nombre de jeunes aux programmes éducatifs,  notamment par le biais des chaires et club UNESCO, et du Réseau des écoles associées permettra aux États d’atteindre leurs  objectifs dans le domaine du développement durable.
(54.4) Le Bélarus est satisfait du niveau et des résultats de sa collaboration avec l’UNESCO. Le pays est reconnaissant à  l’Organisation pour sa coopération dans les domaines de la protection et la promotion du patrimoine culturel matériel et  immatériel, de la diversité culturelle ainsi que dans le cadre des programmes scientifiques de l’UNESCO. Les effets positifs de  notre appartenance à l’Organisation sont d’ores et déjà évidents, mais nous voyons s’ouvrir des perspectives pour la poursuite  de notre collaboration. La République du Bélarus s’est portée candidate pour siéger au Conseil exécutif de l’UNESCO  pendant la période 2017 – 2021. S’il est élu, notre pays entend œuvrer activement à renforcer le rôle de l’Organisation et à  développer sa collaboration avec l’Organisation ainsi qu’avec les États membres, notamment dans le cadre d’une  collaboration entre les commissions nationales pour l’UNESCO. Le Bélarus détient un bon savoir-faire dans le domaine de  l’éducation au service du développement durable et se tient prêt à partager son expérience avec toutes les parties  intéressées.
(54.5) Nous sommes convaincus que les difficultés auxquelles sont confrontées la communauté internationale et l’UNESCO,  qui est considérée à juste titre comme un chef de file intellectuel et moral de la coopération internationale, peuvent être  surmontées. Le Bélarus est prêt à fournir à l’UNESCO tout le concours nécessaire pour servir cette noble cause, car  l’Organisation est aujourd’hui tout aussi utile, voire davantage, à ses États membres et à l’ensemble de la communauté  internationale que lors de sa création. Le Bélarus a la conviction que nous ne devons pas être les otages d’une situation où la  tribune qu’offre l’UNESCO est utilisée pour résoudre dans la confrontation des différends qui relèvent des relations politiques  bilatérales. Il va sans dire que dans le monde actuel les États ne peuvent se développer avec succès en laissant pour compte  d’autres États. C’est seulement en avançant de concert qu’il sera possible de réaliser les objectifs de développement durable.  Pour ce faire, nous avons tous besoin d’une Organisation forte, capable de tenir son rôle de chef de file intellectuel de la  communauté internationale. Cela ne pourra se faire qu’en unissant nos efforts. Je vous remercie de votre attention.
55. La Présidente :   Merci Excellence. Je donne maintenant la parole à S. E. M. Reggy Nelson, Ambassadeur extraordinaire et  plénipotentiaire du Suriname en France.
56.1 Mr Nelson (Suriname):   Madam President of the General Conference, Mr Chairperson of the Executive Board, Madam Director-General,  Excellencies, distinguished delegates, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the Government and the people of Suriname,  and on my own behalf, I would like to add my voice to those who have congratulated you, Madam President, on your
125  election as President of this session of the General Conference. Given your track record, we cannot but express our  confidence in your leadership for the period ahead. We would also like to pay tribute to the outgoing Director-General for  her sterling efforts in leading UNESCO during the past years and we wish her success in her future endeavours. Madam  President, I am privileged to convey the best regards and best wishes from the Minister of Education, Science and  Culture of the Republic of Suriname, His Excellency Robert Peneaux. I have the honour to deliver the statement of  Suriname on his behalf.
56.2 With reference to Sustainable Development Goals 4, on quality education, Suriname undertakes several  activities to achieve that Goal. The Ministry of Education is currently in the process of updating the sectoral educational  plan for 2017-2030 and has recently drafted a strategic plan for 2017-2021. Both plans are brought in line with the  twenty-first century learning skills and the Sustainable Development Goals. The establishment of the Suriname National  Training Authority will guarantee that vocational education is further developed and that vocational standards are being  observed and improved. The reform of all educational institutes is currently in progress and must ensure the delivery of  better qualified teachers for primary school education. Madam President, Suriname acknowledges the use of information  and communication technology (ICT) to enhance access to, and the quality of, education. We have therefore started ICT  teacher training at bachelor level at the teachers’ training institute in Suriname.
56.3 With regard to science, the Programme on Man and the Biosphere (MAB) is being carried out by a study group  coordinated by the Institute of Graduate Studies at Anton de Kom University of Suriname, and aims to identify at least  one biosphere reserve in Suriname. With the assistance of UNESCO, an assessment was made of which area might  qualify as a MAB reserve.
56.4 Madam President, referring to the field of culture, we are very pleased to announce that Suriname recently has  ratified the Convention for the Safeguarding of the Intangible Cultural Heritage. Consultation meetings and capacity- building training for stakeholders and major culture communities were organized in cooperation with the UNESCO Office  in Kingston regarding the implementation of the Convention. With regard to our world heritage site the Historic Inner City  of Paramaribo, we would like to inform you that the Government of Suriname has started the implementation of the  Paramaribo urban rehabilitation programme, which aims to contribute to the socioeconomic revitalization of Paramaribo  historic centre and the preservation of its cultural heritage. Madam President, we thank the Director-General and her staff  for the Draft Programme and Budget for 2018-2021 (39 C/5), which testifies to our continuous effort to achieve the ideals  of our Organization. Time and time again, these ideals are overtaken by global events that pose a threat to their  achievement.
56.5 With regard to education, and within the context of Sustainable Development Goal 4, our most immediate action  for the years ahead will be to increase the quality of teachers and basic education from early childhood until grade 8. We  further emphasize our commitment to equity: equality is not enough and one size does not fit all. With the  aforementioned, my country aims to increase the learning outcomes of all primary school students and to improve the  internal efficiency of the education system in Surinam.
56.6 In conclusion, Madam President, Suriname would like to express its hope that UNESCO will continue to make its  presence felt in the face of the current global challenges. Madam President, I would like to state that it has been a great  honour to deliver the message from the Minister of Education, Science, and Culture to this august gathering. I thank you  very much.
57. La Présidente :   Merci Excellence. Et maintenant, notre dernier orateur est S. E. M. Buddhi Athauda, Ambassadeur, Délégué  permanent du Sri Lanka auprès de l’UNESCO. Excellence, vous avez la parole.
58.1 Mr Athauda (Sri Lanka):   Madam President of the General Conference, Mr Chairperson of the Executive Board, Ms Director-General, your  Excellencies, ladies and gentlemen, at the outset let me extend our heartfelt appreciation to Ms Irina Bokova, the  outgoing Director-General, for the great service that she has rendered to the Organization and for her commendable  leadership during her tenure. I wish to also extend our warmest congratulations to Ms Audrey Azoulay, the nominee  elected by the Executive Board as the next Director-General of UNESCO. We look forward to your election as the next  as the next Director-General by the General Conference, and Sri Lanka would like to pledge our fullest cooperation to  you. The Government of Sri Lanka also wishes to thank UNESCO for extending timely assistance to restore the schools  affected by severe floods in the last two years.
58.2 Ladies and gentlemen, in a world embittered by war and devastated by frequent natural disasters, the values  advocated by UNESCO are essential. The need for lasting peace and sustainable development is globally felt stronger  than ever. Populations continue to grow while resources diminish. Hence, it is essential that we resort to sustainable  consumption patterns and introduce alternatives for non-renewable natural resources. This is where education,  traditional knowledge, science, technology and innovation, communication are required to operate in unison to  collectively achieve the Sustainable Development Goal targets. Excellencies, the Government of Sri Lanka has placed  highest priority on achieving the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). The Sustainable Development Act was passed  by Parliament to facilitate the legal framework for developing and implementing a national policy and strategy on  sustainable development. “Sri Lanka next: a blue green era” is a comprehensive programme to protect the environment  and to fight desertification and climate change. Being an island nation, we fully endorse the international decade of  ocean sciences for sustainable development proposed by UNESCO. On the other hand, Sri Lanka has declared 2017 as  the “year for alleviating poverty”. A special national programme has been launched to strengthen the rural economy and  improve the livelihoods of villagers in a sustainable manner. The underlying strategy is to enhance capacity at the grass-
126  roots level while improving infrastructure and connectivity. His Excellency the President Maithripala Sirisena has  appointed a task force on the SDGs, which he personally reviews regularly.
58.3 Madam President, we have recognized education as the primary vehicle for reaching the SDG targets. The  provision of universal free education for 13 years has been strengthened by gradually introducing educational reforms  and creating a conducive environment for teaching and learning. Recognizing the importance of the maintenance of the  quality of education, the Government has decided to invest heavily in training and the continuous professional  development of teachers and educational personnel. A UNESCO category 2 centre established in Sri Lanka serves as a  focal institute in this endeavour. We expect to establish a comprehensive education information management system  with the technical assistance of UNESCO, while the introduction of school boards and inspectorates will serve to  strengthen the management of the general education system. Your excellencies, our Government takes the protection of  children from all possible dangers very seriously. We have introduced an insurance scheme to cover all school-going  children of Sri Lanka, irrespective of whether they are in public, private or international schools. In addition, we have  initiated a broad national programme to protect children through extensive awareness programmes and campaigns and  strengthening legal and institutional structures.
58.4 Your Excellencies, being a country rich in tangible and intangible heritage we have placed great significance on  the protection and promotion of our heritage. Special emphasis is given to protecting and supporting the practitioners of  various intangible cultural heritage elements and to motivating younger generations to continue the traditions. I am proud  to inform you that the Right to Information Act is in operation. It has many salient features to ensure the accountability  and transparency of the government machinery.
58.5 We were happy to accept UNESCO’s proposal to organize the main event to commemorate 2017 International  Day to End Impunity against Journalists: a regional seminar in Colombo, Sri Lanka. Further, the Government is making  commendable efforts to restore law and order within the country, envisioning a peaceful and harmonious society while  strengthening democracy. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to conclude with the earnest hope that our collective efforts  in line with UNESCO’s ideals will make the planet a better place for future generations. Sri Lanka pledges its fullest  cooperation to the efforts of UNESCO to realize the noble objective of building peace in the minds of men and women. I  look forward to a very successful session of the UNESCO General Conference in the coming days. May the noble Triple  Gem bless you all. Thank you.
59. La Présidente :   Merci, Monsieur l’Ambassadeur. Mesdames et Messieurs, nous sommes arrivés à la conclusion de la réunion  de ce matin. Je tiens à informer les chefs de délégation et tous les délégués que la plénière se réunira de nouveau cet  après-midi à 15 heures précises. Je vous remercie de votre attention. La séance est close.  La séance est levée à 13 h 20   Se levanta la sesión a las 13.20  Заседание закрывается в 13.20  الظهربعد  ,٢٠١رفعت اجللسة يف الساعة    会议于 13 时 20 分结束