1. La Présidente :   Excellences, Mesdames et Messieurs, bonjour. Je déclare ouverte la dix-septième séance plénière de la
39e session de la Conférence générale, qui sera consacrée à l’examen et l’adoption des rapports des commissions  Éducation et Communication et information. Sans plus tarder, je donne la parole à S. E. M. Godia, Président de la  Commission Éducation, qui va présenter le rapport contenu dans le document 39 C/71. Excellence, vous avez la parole.
2.1 Mr Godia (Kenya) (Chairperson of the Education Commission):   Thank you. Madam President of the General Conference, Madam Director-General, Honourable Ministers,  distinguished delegates, ladies and gentlemen. The Education Commission of the 39th session of the General  Conference has completed its proceedings and I have the privilege to submit to you the main conclusions of our two-and- a-half days’ discussions, which addressed 10 agenda items.
2.2 The report of the Commission is submitted to the General Conference in document 39 C/71. I am pleased to be  sharing this information with you because education is so important to UNESCO and of course, is also so important in  the countries you represent. All of us gathered here today have a responsibility to facilitate the successful implementation  of Sustainable Development Goal (SDG) 4 on quality education for all. I am glad to report that we made progress in this  direction during our Commission.
2.3 Let me turn to the first debate of our Commission, relating to the adoption of the Draft Programme and Budget  for 2018-2019 (39 C/5), and UNESCO’s role in the implementation of the SDG 4 agenda. The Assistant Director-General  for Education (ADG/ED) introduced the items, recalling accomplishments over the past eight years and highlighting that  UNESCO’s comparative advantage lies in its technical expertise. Indeed, he underscored that the Education Sector  faced critical challenges related to limited financial and human resources, competition from large and powerful  development partners who were able to mobilize substantial financing, and ensuring clusters of technical expertise at the  regional and country level. On the brighter side, the Assistant Director-General explained that resource mobilization  efforts had been enhanced, increasing extrabudgetary resources at approximately 6% a year. Extrabudgetary funding  represented 75% of the total budget of the Education Sector, amounting to approximately $300 million.
2.4 Regarding the Draft Programme and Budget for the 2018 to 2021 period, the Assistant Director-General  recalled that the consolidated budget and programme reflected, for the first time ever, the proposed regular programme  budget, available extrabudgetary resources, and resources expected in the future, thereby providing a holistic, rather  than piecemeal, budget envelope. The programme had two main lines of action that reflected two of UNESCO’s main  functions: main line of action (MLA) 1 supported governments in the implementation of SDG 4 at the country level. The  expected results reflected the SDG 4 targets. Main line of action (MLA) 2 supported the monitoring and coordination of  SDG 4 at the global and regional levels. The expected results for this main line of action supported advocacy and  research functions in collaboration with category 1 institutes. Overall, gender equality and a focus on Africa remained  twin priorities for the Sector.
2.5 For the agenda item concerning UNESCO’s role in the implementation of SDG 4, ADG/ED stated that UNESCO  supported Member States in the operationalization of SDG 4 through mechanisms such as E-9 and the collective  consultation of NGOs as well as the CapED Programme and the Global Education Monitoring Report.
2.6 Thirty-six Member States and seven observers then took the floor to discuss the two items. The discussion can  be summarized as follows. The Education Commission welcomed the priorities proposed by UNESCO and expressed its  appreciation for the proposed Programme and Budget, its structure and its thematic focus. A number of delegates  commended UNESCO for coordinating work on SDG 4 through the steering committee for SDG 4. Some delegates  suggested that there should be a strong engagement with other coordinating bodies such as the Global Partnership for  Education and the Education Cannot Wait fund. Several Member States noted that the UNESCO field offices network  had an important role to play in ensuring support to Member States and, as such, deserved to be reinforced. Strong  attention was signalled regarding UNESCO’s budgetary situation. The Commission encouraged Member States to meet  their obligations and pay their monetary dues.
2.7 Several recommendations were made by the ED Commission regarding UNESCO’s priorities and activities.  Delegates mentioned the need for support on financing and accountability. Some delegates emphasized the need to  mainstream human rights because the SDGs could not be achieved without better knowledge and understanding of  human rights challenges. Member States asked UNESCO to continue to prioritize teachers, noting that high-quality  learning was dependent on well-trained teachers. Delegates also encouraged UNESCO to intensify its efforts to  accelerate progress towards SDG target 4.7, which spoke to the importance of education for sustainable development,  human rights and global citizenship education. Many Members States stressed that UNESCO should continue to work to  set norms in education and provide foresight and policy guidance. Delegates said that enhancing the capacity of  countries to produce reliable and comparable education statistics was indeed likely to further that effort by helping  UNESCO identify and share best practices.
2.8 Representatives from NGOs emphasized education as a collective responsibility and called for more inclusive  monitoring mechanisms as well as additional financial resources to implement the SDG 4 agenda. They called for  ensuring the proper functioning of the SDG-Education 2030 Steering Committee and the Collective Consultation of Non- Governmental Organizations (CCNGO).
2.9 In his response, the Assistant Director-General for Education thanked the Member States for supporting  UNESCO’s leadership in the implementation and monitoring of SDG 4. He recalled that progress toward SDG 4 required  national efforts and encouraged Members States to step up their commitments to education, offering UNESCO support.  Indeed, the Assistant Director-General thanked Member States, donor countries, the CapED Programme, traditional and  new donor organizations and the private sector. He explained that UNESCO’s increased reliance on extrabudgetary  resources represented a challenge but stressed that the Education Sector worked to ensure the close alignment of these  resources with core UNESCO priorities and would continue to do so in the next biennium. He expressed concern  regarding the continued financial health of the Global Education Monitoring Report and the UNESCO Institute of  Statistics, and called on donors to increase commitments.
2.10 The Programme and Budget for 2018-2019 and the resolution on Education 2030 were recommended for  adoption by the General Conference with the proposed and approved amendments (documents 39 C/5 and Addenda, 39  C/6 and Addenda, 39 C/COM JM/DR.1, 38 C/INF.25 and 39 C/44 and 39 C/INF.16).
2.11 Following these adoptions, the Commission moved to the second debate, which addressed four items. The first  item concerned educational and cultural institutions in the Occupied Arab Territories. This proved to be a contentious  issue and following multiple rounds of roll-call voting, the proposed resolution was recommended for adoption by the  General Conference without debate. After a negotiated settlement between the concerned parties and witnessed by  France, the draft resolution was recommended for adoption by consensus and also withdrawn from the agenda of the  Culture Commission. A number of delegates proposed that Member States revisit the procedural rules of the General  Conference to try to prevent similar delays at future meetings. A number of Member States also expressed frustration  with the heightened politicization of these issues in the Education Commission.
2.12 The rest of the second debate moved smoothly. We examined three normative instruments: the 1960  Convention and Recommendation against Discrimination in Education; the 1974 Recommendation concerning Education  for International Understanding, Cooperation and Peace and Education relating to Human Rights and Fundamental  Freedoms; and the 1978 Revised Recommendation concerning the International Standardization of Educational  Statistics (39 C/24, 39 C/25 and 39 C/27).
2.13 The Assistant Director-General for Education described UNESCO’s role in monitoring the implementation of the
1960 Convention and of the 1974 Recommendation. UNESCO had received 67 national reports from Member States on  the measures taken to implement the 1960 Convention. Eighty-three Member States had replied to the questionnaires  concerning the 1974 Recommendation. The submission of reports had significantly increased for both instruments. That  was indeed a positive development. The Assistant Director-General thanked the Member States for replying to the  questionnaires and invited others to do the same in the future.
2.14 Next on our agenda, the Director of the UNESCO Institute for Statistics (UIS) introduced an item related to  International Standard Classification of Education (ISCED). She explained that UNESCO and UIS wanted to give  Member States sufficient time to adapt their national system to existing standards and, for that reason, did not plan to  expect the standards set in the ISCED in the near future. The Education Commission voiced support for UNSECO’s  normative role and welcomed its efforts to reinforce monitoring of its standard-setting instruments.
2.15 Delegates noted that the 1960 Convention was a powerful tool to advance progress toward SDG 4 and provided  legal foundations for the Education 2030 Agenda. A number of Member States stated that special efforts must be taken  to ensure equal education opportunities for indigenous people as well as students with disabilities. To summarize,  delegates recalled that the 1960 Convention was a basic UNESCO tool on preventing discrimination, including the  importance of teaching in the mother tongue.
2.16 The Assistant Director-General for Education stated that UNESCO and the UNESCO Institute for Statistics  would continue helping Member States to implement the 1960 Convention and Recommendation against Discrimination  in Education and the 1974 Recommendation concerning Education for International Understanding, Cooperation and  Peace. UNESCO also said it would work with Member States to establish international standards to facilitate the  recording and use of educational statistics. All of the draft resolutions for the second debate were recommended for  adoption by the General Conference with the amendments proposed by the Legal Committee.
2.17 Ladies and gentlemen, we shall now turn our attention to the third debate, which included the examination of  items concerning the preparation of a draft global convention on the recognition of higher education qualifications
(39 C/21 and 39 C/INF.17), and on the preliminary revision of the 1974 Regional Convention on the Recognition of  Studies, Diplomas and Degrees in Higher Education in Latin America and the Caribbean (39 C/48). A new draft  resolution on the preliminary revision of the 1978 Convention on the Recognition of Studies, Diplomas and Degrees in  Higher Education in the Arab States, was also presented during the General Conference and decided during the third  debate.
2.18 The Assistant Director-General for Education introduced these items. He explained the work that had been  completed to develop a global convention on the recognition of higher education qualifications and to inform Member  States during the process. He also pointed out that UNESCO would have an opportunity to review and adopt a  completed global convention during the 40th session of the General Conference. Regarding the Latin America and the  Caribbean Convention, the Assistant Director-General explained the revision process and outlined the next steps.
2.19 Twenty-eight Member States, one observer State and one non-governmental organization took the floor to  discuss items considered in the third debate. The Education Commission expressed its high appreciation and support for  a global convention as well as revisions to regional conventions in Latin America and the Caribbean and also in the Arab  States. Regarding the global convention, Member States thanked UNESCO and Norway for their strong support. They  stated that the convention represented an opportunity to facilitate the economic and social development of Member  States and an important step towards the implementation of SDG 4. They remarked that the convention would support  actions against discrimination in education. They welcomed the proposed timeline for the processes while at the same  time highlighting that the draft left room for harmonization between regional conventions and the global convention.  Delegates further noted that the draft text for the global convention was an excellent starting point for further  consultations.
2.20 The Commission underscored that the global convention would not entail automatic recognition, and that was  broadly appreciated by Member States. Delegates recommended that the convention carefully consider the needs of  refugees and other displaced people, remarking that “inclusion” must be a pillar of the convention.
2.21 In the same sense, several delegates welcomed the inclusion of relevant issues related to disadvantaged  populations including access to opportunities, partial studies recognition and gender equality issues, among others.  Member States remarked that the finished global convention should be flexible to allow autonomy to institutions and  authorities at the national level. Many delegates expressed their wish to adopt the convention in 2019 during the 40th  session of the General Conference. Norway announced that it was willing to provide additional financial support towards  that effort.  Several Member States and one observer State requested that UNESCO continue its work and facilitate the  adoption of the global convention as soon as possible through organizing participatory and inclusive consultation  processes, including intergovernmental meetings.
2.22 Regarding regional conventions, Member States stressed that working on them along with the global convention  would strengthen both processes. They heightened the link between regional conventions and the global convention and  requested clarifications regarding that relation. Many delegates said that regional recognition conventions, in addition to  a global convention, should also help address challenges related to migration and refugees. Some countries stressed the  overlap of global and regional conventions’ processes in two regions, and expressed their concern for the complexity this  situation would produce.
2.23 In his response, the Assistant Director-General for Education expressed gratitude for the strong support for the  global convention from Member States after six years of efforts, from the meeting in Tokyo in 2011. He highlighted the  strong consensus shown during the debate around the need for a global convention. He pointed out that the draft text  provided a good basis for further discussions and the convention was not only about recognition of degrees, but also  about quality assurance. Taking into consideration that all countries should have in place quality assurance agencies,  which required strong national efforts, the convention offered a great opportunity to enhance higher education systems in  that sense. He stressed that the UNESCO global quality assurance conference would be clearly linked to this work.  Finally, he reiterated that regional and global conventions would be complementary.
2.24 Resolutions relating to the global and the Latin America and the Caribbean conventions were recommended for  adoption by the General Conference with the proposed amendments. The resolution relating to the Arab States  Convention was recommended for adoption by the General Conference without amendments.
2.25 Fellow delegates, ladies and gentlemen, let us now turn to the fourth debate, which was devoted to examining  item 4.5, “Conclusions of the Youth Forum” as regards education (39 C/19 and 39 C/INF.20). Two youth participants  presented their respective contributions to their communities through their inspiring work in the field of education. The  Education Commission commended their efforts and recognized the need to ensure that youth are included and  represented in decision-making processes that concern education. In responding to the debate, the Assistant Director- General for Education welcomed their efforts and took note of the Youth Forum’s conclusions and the recommendations  pertaining to education. The resolution relative to the document examined was unanimously recommended for adoption  by the General Conference.
2.26 Following these recommendations for adoption, the Commission moved to the fifth debate, which included  item 4.4 on two new category 2 centres under the auspices of UNESCO in China (39 C/18 Parts XII and XIV). The first  proposal was for a centre for teacher education at Shanghai Normal University. The second proposal was for the  establishment of an Associated Schools Project Network (ASPnet) international centre in Sanya, Hainan Province. The  fifth debate also included the presentations of activities of education-related category 1 institutes.
2.27 The Assistant Director-General introduced the item. The draft resolutions regarding these two centres were  recommended for adoption by the General Conference without debate. The Commission then listened to the reports on  the activities carried out during the last biennium presented by the chairpersons of the governing boards of the six  education-related UNESCO category 1 institutes, namely: International Bureau of Education; UNESCO International  Institute for Educational Planning; UNESCO Institute for Lifelong Learning; UNESCO Institute for Information  Technologies in Education; UNESCO International Institute for Higher Education in Latin America and the Caribbean;  UNESCO Institute for Capacity-Building in Africa; and Mahatma Gandhi Institute of Education for Peace and Sustainable  Development (MGIEP). The Assistant Director-General for Education thanked the institutes’ host countries for their  valuable contribution.
2.28 Distinguished delegates, ladies and gentlemen, allow me to conclude my presentation with some comments and  reflections. First of all, I thank you for the insightful comments, improvements to our resolutions, and enabling us to work  quickly. This was certainly facilitated by the availability of screens, after concern was raised regarding their absence at
315  the beginning of our deliberations. Indeed, our observation is that we must avoid this kind of situation in the near future. I  am happy to say that we have given direction to UNESCO’s role in the implementation of SDG 4; we have made  progress to prevent discrimination in education and in relation to the 1974 Recommendation; and we have moved closer  to global and regional conventions to recognize higher education credentials.
2.29 So before closing this Commission, I wish to express my gratitude to the Vice-Chairpersons, representatives of  the Director-General, particularly the Assistant Director-General for Education, Mr Tang, and the Directors and  representatives of UNESCO institutes and centres, for their pertinent information, input, explanations and clarifications.  Let me single out especially Mr Tang who has been a tireless champion for ADG/Education throughout the eight years  he has served at UNESCO. To quote William Shakespeare, life is but a stage, we come, play our part and exit. I believe  that Mr Tang has played his part to the best of his ability. It is in this spirit that Martin Luther King urged us that we must  be the best of whatever we are. I believe that in this regard Mr Tang has been the best of whatever he is. So finally, let  me thank the legal representatives, the Secretariat of the Education Commission, and all the team involved in the  organization of the General Conference. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen.
3. La Présidente :  Merci, Votre Excellence. Permettez-moi de m’associer à vous pour remercier également M. Tang pour son  implication constante dans le Secteur de l’éducation. Nous sommes très heureux de l’avoir eu à nos côtés. Merci. Merci,  Votre Excellence, pour votre présentation. Je tiens à vous féliciter pour votre réussite à la présidence de la Commission,  mais également pour l’extrême professionnalisme dont vous avez fait preuve. Y a-t-il des commentaires ou des  suggestions sur ce rapport ? Puis-je considérer que la Conférence générale prend note du rapport de la Commission  Éducation et adopte les projets de résolution proposés dans le document 39 C/71, sous réserve des décisions que la  Conférence pourrait prendre lors de l’adoption de la résolution portant ouverture de crédits pour 2018-2019 ? Je vous  remercie. Je m’aperçois que je n’ai pas de marteau. Je vous remercie. Il en est ainsi décidé.  Report of the Communication and Information Commission (CI) (39 C/75)  Rapport de la Commission Communication et information (CI) (39 C/75)  Informe de la Comisión de Comunicación e Información (CI) (39 C/75)  Доклад Комиссии по коммуникации и информации (CI) (39 C/75)   )٧٥م/٣٩() CIتقرير لجنة االتصال والمعلومات ( 传播和信息委员会（CI）的报告（39 C/75）
4. La Présidente :  Honorables délégués, je me tourne maintenant vers S. E. M. Hadlow, Président de la Commission  Communication et information, qui va présenter le rapport contenu dans le document 39 C/75. Monsieur Hadlow, vous  avez la parole.
5.1 Mr Hadlow (Australia) (Chairperson of the Communication and Information Commission):   Thank you, Madam President. Chairperson of the Executive Board, representative of the Director-General of  UNESCO, distinguished delegates, ladies and gentlemen, a very good morning. On behalf of the Communication and  Information (CI) Commission, I am honoured to present the report of the Commission, contained in document 39 C/75.
5.2 The CI Commission met for two days to examine eight agenda items in a series of eight debates. A side event  supported by the Government of Sweden occurred alongside the Commission’s meeting, on 6 November 2017, to  present the key findings of the World Trends in Freedom of Expression and Media Development: Global Report. The  Commission began its work by electing Ms Élaine Ayotte (Canada), Mr Atanas Mladenov (Bulgaria), Ms Chafica Haddad  (Grenada) and Mr Khalil Karam (Lebanon) as Vice-Chairpersons of the Commission; and Ms Patience Mhandu  (Zimbabwe) as Rapporteur.
5.3 The representative of the Director-General, Assistant Director-General for Communication and Information,  Mr Frank La Rue, set the stage for the Commission by recalling the challenges the world faced in the fields of the  Commission’s mandate and outlining key areas of the CI Sector’s work. The reports of the CI Programme’s two  intergovernmental councils were then presented. The Chairperson of the International Programme for the Development  of Communication (IPDC), Ms Albana Shala, announced the positive contributions of the body’s external review and  highlighted the programme’s contribution to the safety of journalists. Next, the Chairperson of the Information for All  Programme (IFAP), Ms Chafica Haddad, informed the Commission about recent projects relating to media and  information literacy (MIL), multilingualism in cyberspace, and empowering girls and women with ICTs, as well as  continuous efforts in the area of preventing violent extremism (PVE).
5.4 In its first debate, the Commission considered item 3.2, “Consideration and Adoption of the Draft Programme  and Budget for 2018-2021 (39 C/5)”. In his introductory remarks, the representative of the Director-General presented  the two major lines of action and six expected results related to the Communication and Information Programme (Major  Programme V) in draft document 39 C/5. He explained that the integrated budget framework included $29.4 million in  assessment contributions ($11.12 million for activities, plus $18.28 million for regular programme staff), $5.63 million in  voluntary contributions, and a “gap” of $20.41 million.
5.5 In the debate that followed, delegates of 26 Member States and one observer took the floor. The majority of  delegates welcomed draft document 39 C/5 and commended the Secretariat for its work, despite insufficient resources.  Speakers emphasized the CI Programme’s importance, highlighting the crucial role of freedom of expression, media  development, and access to information and knowledge in achieving sustainable development and peace.
5.6 Several delegates expressed concern over UNESCO’s budgetary situation. Delegates called for all Member  States to meet their financial commitments, and one representative appealed for Member States to make non-earmarked  contributions that would allow UNESCO to meet its statutory obligations. Another delegate stated that the $667 million  budget scenario would provide more resources for programme implementation in priority areas.
5.7 There was an overall view that increased global leadership was needed to build inclusive, people-centred  knowledge societies. Various delegates outlined the importance of the CI Programme and Sector and its role within the  United Nations system. However, there were also calls for greater intersectoral collaboration within the Organization to  allow it to fulfil its mandate, as well as further United Nations and multilateral cooperation. Many delegates informed the  Commission of work undertaken in their countries related to the adoption of access to information laws, the safety of  journalists, protection of journalists’ sources, journalism education, open educational resources (OER), reducing the  digital divide, and preventing violent extremism through education (PVE-E).
5.8 In relation to main line of action (MLA) 1, freedom of expression and access to information were reaffirmed as  fundamental human rights. Many delegates welcomed UNESCO’s leadership in strengthening the United Nations Plan of  Action on the Safety of Journalists and the Issue of Impunity and highlighted UNESCO’s work in monitoring the  achievement of SDG target 16.10 on fundamental freedoms and public access to information. One delegate cited the  World Trends in Freedom of Expression and Media Development: Global Report as an example of the Secretariat’s high- quality work that should be continued, and another argued that it must be given a more long-term and sustainable  framework. Several delegates highlighted the important role of the International Programme for the Development of  Communication (IPDC), underscoring the need to develop further its activities, project grants and indicator-based  assessments.
5.9 Regarding main line of action (MLA) 2, several delegates spoke about the importance of access to information  and the notable efforts to prevent violent extremism through the activities of the Information for All Programme (IFAP).  Many delegates praised the Memory of the World Programme and stressed that the programme should be strengthened.  In the framework of the World Summit on the Information Society (WSIS), the role of ICTs and media, online and off-line,  in the achievement of the SDGs and the need to address the digital divide were emphasized. Several delegates  expressed support for Internet universality and the R.O.A.M. principles, as well as the development of Internet  universality indicators. While the large majority of delegates expressed satisfaction with the presentation of document
39 C/5 as a “coherent programme”, two Member States called for more attention to be given to the themes addressed  under MLA 2. Another delegate said that more attention should be given to media development, media pluralism and  media diversity.
5.10 In his reply, the representative of the Director-General responded to the various issues raised, including the  safety of journalists, preventing violent extremism and media and information literacy (MIL), and the Memory of the World  Programme. He appealed to Member States to consider providing additional voluntary contributions, as more activities  could be carried out with additional funding.
5.11 The CI Commission recommended that the General Conference adopt document 39 C/5, as it related to Major  Programme V, as amended by documents 39 C/6 and 39 C/6 Addendum, and that it adopt the provisional budget ceiling  for Major Programme V.
5.12 Ladies and gentlemen, upon the request of a number of Member States, who sought more time to examine  documents and to dialogue on several issues, the Commission decided to postpone the items related to the second and  fourth debates to the second day of the Commission. I will therefore present the debates in the chronological order in  which they were carried out.
5.13 The Commission moved on to the third debate, concerning item 4.4, “Establishment in the Republic of Korea of  an International Centre for Documentary Heritage as a category 2 centre under the auspices of UNESCO.” Following a  brief introduction by ADG/CI, the Commission recommended that the General Conference adopt the resolution. On  behalf of the Republic of Korea, the Mayor of Cheongju City, Mr Lee Seung Hun, then took the floor, affirming that the  International Centre for Documentary Heritage would be a strong partner of the Memory of the World Programme.
5.14 Distinguished delegates, we now turn our attention to the proceedings of the fifth debate on the Report of the  World Summit on the Information Society (WSIS) beyond 2015. In his introductory remarks, ADG/CI highlighted  UNESCO’s leadership in the WSIS process and the role of ICTs in achieving all 17 Sustainable Development Goals. He  noted that the R.O.A.M. principles had been adopted by consensus at the 38th session of the General Conference and  that indicators were now being established to measure their implementation.
5.15 In the debate that followed, representatives of 17 Member States took the floor. Several delegates expressed  their appreciation and support for UNESCO’s WSIS-related activities and voiced strong support for Internet universality  and the R.O.A.M. principles. Acknowledging UNESCO’s role in strengthening the Internet Governance Forum (IGF)  through its presence and input, the representative of Switzerland announced that the current year’s IGF would take place  in Geneva and invited all Member States to participate. Media and information literacy (MIL) was cited as important in  efforts to counter and prevent violent extremism and for the achievement of the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable  Development.
5.16 Member States spoke about their own national efforts to implement WSIS Action Lines, and they underscored  the challenges posed by a lack of ICT infrastructure and limited national capacities. Some delegates pointed to the work  done by IPDC and IFAP in that regard. Some Member States highlighted the fourth industrial revolution and artificial  intelligence (AI) as areas in which UNESCO should further focus attention. In light of the digital divide, there was a  request from one Member State to focus more on implementing sustainable WSIS activities in Africa. One delegate
317  requested that UNESCO address hate speech and “fake, opinionated information”. Another delegate observed that while  there were possible risks to the inappropriate use of the Internet by certain organizations or individuals, more universal  access in the use of ICTs was always welcome. While the large majority of interventions were supportive of the report  presented, the delegate of one Member State said it lacked sufficient mention of UNESCO’s work on journalism  education, ethical aspects of the information society, cultural diversity, and linguistic diversity.
5.17 In his reply, the representative of the Director-General emphasized that UNESCO was aware of the digital divide  and that it would continue to promote universal access without economic, racial, cultural, gender, disability or linguistic  barriers. He highlighted the Sector’s recent and foreseen work in the areas of artificial intelligence and the “Internet of  things”, and stated that communication and information could be effective tools in preventing violent extremism. The  CI Commission then recommended that the General Conference adopt the resolution as amended by the Commission.
5.18 The Commission’s sixth debate addressed item 4.18, “Quebec’s Call for Action: Internet and the Radicalization  of Youth.” Expressing gratitude to the respective Governments of Quebec and Canada, the representative of the  Director-General highlighted the high level of participation by youth and of political leaders in the Internet and  Radicalization of Youth: Preventing, Acting and Living Together conference, held in Quebec from 30 October to
1 November 2016. He described the purpose of the draft resolution: to endorse Quebec’s Call for Action, to call the  attention of the world, and especially of youth, to the need to develop prevention methodologies and use communication  to build a culture of peace around the world.
5.19 The representatives of six Member States and one observer took the floor during this debate. Recognizing that  the prevention of violent extremism (PVE) existed in document 39 C/5 as an intersectoral activity, delegates called for all  UNESCO sectors to work in that area. Speakers commended UNESCO’s work in PVE and several called for the  endorsement of Quebec’s Call for Action. Some delegates informed the Commission of efforts in their own countries to  prevent violent extremism through research, education, digital literacy efforts and awareness-raising campaigns.
5.20 The representative of one Member State expressed concern about the reference to the Secretary-General’s  Plan of Action on the Prevention of Violent Extremism, pointing out that it had been taken note of in the General  Assembly, rather than endorsed. The delegate requested that IFAP and IPDC take into account the recommendations for  ethical behaviour on the Internet present in Quebec’s Call for Action, and requested that the words “radicalization” and  “conducive to terrorism” be added to the draft resolution.
5.21 In his reply, the representative of the Director-General clarified that the draft resolution was to endorse Quebec’s  Call for Action, not the Secretary-General’s Plan of Action. Following the debate, the Commission recommended that the  General Conference adopt the resolution.
5.22 The fourth debate commenced on item 4.21, “Establishment in Quito, Ecuador, of an Internet Centre of  Advanced Communication Studies for Latin America (CIESPAL) as a centre under the auspices of UNESCO (category
2).” After a brief introduction by ADG/CI, the representative of Ecuador provided further information about CIESPAL’s  history and activities in journalism and communications education and the Commission recommended that the General  Conference adopt the resolution.
5.23 For the seventh debate, the Commission examined item 6.3, “Desirability of a standard-setting instrument on  international collaboration in the field of open educational resources (OER)”. Twenty-three Member States and one  observer took part in the subsequent debate. All speakers agreed on the importance of the international collaboration in  the field of OER to achieve SDG 4 and enhance access to quality education. Recognizing the long-standing leadership of  UNESCO in OER and praising the adopted multi-stakeholder approach, delegates expressed their appreciation to  UNESCO and the Government of Slovenia for organizing and hosting the Second World OER Congress in September
2017, and they welcomed the Ljubljana OER Action Plan 2017.
5.24 Open educational resources were indicated as a promising tool for achieving inclusive learning for all. Several  delegates stated that OER could play a fundamental role in supporting indigenous languages and stressed that such  resources should consider and preserve national cultures and local values, as well as respecting authors’ intellectual  inputs. Acknowledging the differences in the existing educational frameworks, a majority of delegates expressed support  for the establishment of a standard-setting instrument in the form of a recommendation. In that regard, several  interventions evoked the necessity of identifying extrabudgetary resources in support of activities towards the new  recommendation. The new normative framework, delegates stated, should promote greater awareness of OER and  assist Member States in positioning OER in their national educational systems, in respect of national and regional  provisions. The Commission recommended that the General Conference adopt the resolution as amended by the  Commission.
5.25 Ladies and gentlemen, the second debate, the most extensive debate in our Commission, concerned item 4.20  on “Strengthening UNESCO’s leadership in the implementation of the United Nations Plan of Action on the Safety of  Journalists and the Issue of Impunity”. In the course of the second debate, representatives of 38 Member States took the  floor. Delegates requested the Secretariat to take that debate into account for its future work.
5.26 In his introduction of this item, ADG/CI spoke about the Multi-stakeholder Consultation on Strengthening the  Implementation of the United Nations Plan of Action on the Safety of Journalists and the Issue of Impunity, which  included both an online consultation and a face-to-face meeting in Geneva in June 2017. He emphasized that the  outcome document of that consultation presented a series of options for action. He highlighted UNESCO’s focus on the  “three Ps” approach of prevention of, protection against and prosecution of attacks against journalists.
5.27 The large majority of delegates expressed their full support for UNESCO’s strengthened leadership in the  implementation of the United Nations Plan of Action and welcomed the proposed resolution. Many reaffirmed their  countries’ firm commitment to freedom of expression and the safety of journalists and welcomed the outcome document  of the multi-stakeholder consultation. One Member State suggested that it be complemented by a more strategic  document to assist stakeholders in implementation.
5.28 Several Member States underlined that focus should be placed on translating the progress achieved at the  international level into national policies and practices. Delegates noted that increased cooperation on the topic, both  within and beyond the United Nations system, was necessary, including through the informal groups of friends that had  been set up in Paris, New York and Geneva and through the newly announced United Nations focal points. Research  and monitoring on the safety of journalists were deemed important, including through monitoring SDG indicator 16.10.1  and through academic networks. During the debate, a very tragic event was brought to my attention that morning, that a  television station in Afghanistan had just been subject to a terrorist attack and some deaths had resulted. Several  delegates expressed their condolences.
5.29 The definition of the word “journalist” was questioned by Cuba, the Islamic Republic of Iran, the Russian  Federation and Zimbabwe. However, the majority argued for maintaining the language included in the draft resolution, as  consistent with previous UNESCO decisions. Multiple delegates emphasized that a gender focus was essential, given  the rise in sexual harassment and attacks on women journalists. One delegate maintained that it could not be overlooked  that the majority of journalists killed were men in countries experiencing armed conflict.
5.30 In response to interventions made by delegates, the representative of the Director-General clarified that the  outcome document was not a new plan of action, but rather an evolving suggestion of options for those actors that  wished to implement the United Nations Plan. He emphasized that safety should be applied across the board for all  journalists, regardless of whether they were “good” or bad”, and that investigations into crimes against journalists must  be carried out without prejudice. ADG/CI stated that the definition used in the draft resolution was consistent with  previous decisions of the Executive Board, including 201 EX/Decision 5.1.1 adopted in spring 2017.
5.31 As the energetic debate of the draft resolution had not yet finished by the Commission’s scheduled ending time  of 6 p.m., I adjourned the session for one hour. During that time, an informal group moderated by the Russian Federation  and Sweden met to seek consensus language. When the session recommenced shortly after 7 p.m., the group  presented an amended text. I would like to mention at this stage, distinguished delegates, the specific points mentioned  over the course of the debate and discussion of the draft resolution that delegates requested I include in this oral report  today.
5.32 The delegate of Cuba requested that, in the future, conference documentation be distributed further in advance  of Commission deliberations. In his reply, the representative of the Director-General explained that the document under  consideration had been requested by the Executive Board at its 202nd session, and it was published on 2 November
2017. My own view really is that this delivery was quite rapid when considering the Organization’s financial constraints  and the limited resources available for document production. The delegate of Cameroon contended that journalists could  enhance their own safety by practicing balanced reporting.
5.33 Regarding the definition of “journalist”, the Russian Federation and the Islamic Republic of Iran made the  following comments: “The Russian Federation does not recognize the expanded interpretation of the term journalist,  which is used in the resolution of the 39th session of the General Conference under the agenda item Strengthening  UNESCO’s leadership in the implementation of the United Nations Plan of Action on the Safety of Journalists and the  Issue of Impunity. We are convinced that so-called social media producers cannot be equated with the status of real  journalists. When making decisions and implementing work to ensure the safety of journalists and the issue of impunity,  UNESCO should adhere to the following wording: journalists, media workers and associated personnel”.
5.34 “The Islamic Republic of Iran cannot accept the broad definition of the term journalist as reflected in the draft  resolution in document 39 C/61, Strengthening UNESCO’s leadership in the implementation of the United Nations Plan  of Action on the Safety of Journalists and the Issue of Impunity. In defining this term, the Islamic Republic of Iran refers to  its relevant national legislation.”
5.35 The Commission recommended that the General Conference adopt the resolution as amended by the  Commission. After the adoption of the resolution by the Commission, Canada made the following statement: “Canada  appreciates the spirit of compromise which animated delegations in negotiating this resolution. We wish to clarify that  paragraph 8 in the preamble can, under no circumstances, be read as a comparison between the number of women  journalists and the number of men journalists killed, which would be completely inappropriate. Canada is concerned  about the safety of all journalists regardless of gender.”
5.36 I should note that Sweden, Denmark, Norway, Finland, the Netherlands, Australia, the United Kingdom of Great  Britain and Northern Ireland, Latvia, Estonia, Lithuania, the Republic of Korea and Switzerland requested to be  associated with the statement made by Canada.
5.37 Ladies and gentlemen, the eighth and final debate centred on item 4.5, “Conclusions of the Youth Forum”. Two  young change-makers, Monika Aksentievska and Mortaza Behboudi, spoke about matters that arose during the Youth  Forum. These included proposals to facilitate linkages between media and youth organizations in order to generate  content on key issues, as well as to connect young experts on specific themes with youth that have technological  capacities to develop apps or games and with private sector actors who could provide training in this regard. They also  called for UNESCO to support a series of webinars produced by youth for youth, to be followed by a face-to-face event,
319  and they noted the relevance of including in these efforts the participation of experienced journalists, representatives of  civil society and international organizations working in the field of the safety of journalists.
5.38 Delegates from six Member States took the floor, welcoming the outcomes of the Youth Forum and  acknowledging youth as “agents for change” and partners for achieving the SDGs. Two delegates referred to the recent  World Festival of Youth and Students, held in Sochi, Russian Federation, and encouraged UNESCO to reach out to the  organizers. One delegate expressed disappointment with the format of this year’s Youth Forum, for which the Secretariat  had made the final decision about which participants would take part, and another delegate lamented the limited duration  of the Forum.
5.39 In his response, ADG/CI agreed that it would be better to have more time for the Youth Forum for young people  to interact with UNESCO’s sectors and Member States. Stressing that young people were the key actors in achieving  sustainable development, he announced that regional meetings would follow the Youth Forum. The Commission agreed  to recommend that the General Conference adopt the resolution, marking the completion of its work.
5.40 Distinguished delegates, colleagues, friends, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank the members of the  CI Commission from all four corners of the globe for their very thoughtful interventions, which made the conversations  rich and diverse, and often animated. UNESCO faces a very difficult situation, yet the conversations we had here show  why UNESCO is more necessary than ever. I also express my thanks to the Vice-Chairpersons, Rapporteur, the  interpreters of course, and the audiovisual team. My gratitude goes to the CI Secretariat, people behind the scenes and  in front of the scenes, particularly the representative of the Director-General, Mr Frank La Rue, for his impartial, broad  and very enlightening interventions. As Chairperson, it is hugely appreciated. I express my thanks to the CI Commission  Secretariat led by Ms Mirta Lourenço, which also included Ms Natalia Denissova, Mr Rassem Foudhail, Mr Tim Francis,  Ms Rachel Pollack Ichou and Mr Davide Storti. They really worked very hard. Thank you all. Lastly, I would like to  express to you my personal observation that the overall spirit of the delegates to the Commission was one of great  support and respect for UNESCO and its work. However, the financial obstacles now facing the Organization are  recognized by all as being considerable and potentially destructive of efforts to implement its activities.
5.41 Ladies and gentlemen, in a connected world, in which digital technologies have brought unprecedented  international communication opportunities, UNESCO’s intellectual mission is more important than ever. The exciting  possibilities afforded by the new electronic environment call us to launch again UNESCO’s visionary leadership in  education, science, culture and communication. We must seek to transcend the shackles of bureaucracy, hesitancy and  torpor, and we must give renewed energy to our common task. The Organization’s mandate in promoting dialogue,  peace building, human rights, freedom of expression and democracy is clear. Our fellow citizens across the planet thirst  for these things. UNESCO’s time to lead us into this new future has come. Thank you.
6. La Présidente :  Merci pour votre présentation, Monsieur Hadlow. Je tiens à vous féliciter pour la manière efficace avec laquelle  vous avez géré les travaux de votre Commission. Mesdames et Messieurs, avez-vous des commentaires ou des  suggestions sur ce rapport ? Puis-je considérer que la Conférence générale prend note du rapport de la Commission  Communication et information et adopte les projets de résolution proposés dans le document 39 C/75, sous réserve des  décisions que la Conférence pourrait prendre lors de l’adoption de la résolution portant ouverture de crédits pour 2018-
2019 ? Je vous remercie. Il en est ainsi décidé.  Tribute to the President of the 38th session of the General Conference   Hommage au Président de la 38e session de la Conférence générale  Homenaje al Presidente de la 38ª reunión de la Conferencia General  Выражение признательности Председателю 38-й сессии Генеральной конференции   إشادة برئيس الدورة الثامنة والثالثون للمؤتمر العام 向大会第三十八届会议主席致敬
7.1 La Présidente :  Et maintenant, Mesdames et Messieurs, je voudrais rendre hommage au Président de la 38e session de la  Conférence générale, S. E. Stanley Mutumba Simataa. Au cours de sa réunion d’hier matin, le Bureau de la Conférence  générale a reconnu la sagesse, l’habileté et l’humilité avec lesquelles M. Simataa présidait la Conférence. Il a donc  recommandé que la plénière adopte le projet de résolution contenu dans le document 39 C/PLEN/DR.2. Mesdames et  Messieurs, puis-je considérer que la Conférence générale adopte cette résolution par acclamation ? Il en est ainsi  décidé. Merci.
7.2 Mesdames et Messieurs, honorables délégués, au nom de tous les États membres, y compris de nombre  d’entre vous qui préféreraient prendre la parole personnellement, je tiens à remercier encore une fois M. Stanley  Mutumba Simataa pour tout le leadership dont il a fait preuve lors de sa présidence à la tête de la 38e session de la  Conférence générale.
8.1 La Présidente :   Je voudrais maintenant vous proposer un autre projet de résolution, qui est présenté par le Bureau de la  Conférence générale en hommage, cette fois, au Président du Conseil exécutif, M. Michael Worbs, et dont le texte figure  dans le document 39 C/PLEN/DR.3. Mesdames et Messieurs, puis-je considérer que la Conférence générale adopte  cette résolution par acclamation ? Il en est ainsi décidé.
8.2 Monsieur le Président du Conseil exécutif, je voudrais encore une fois vous dire combien nous avons apprécié  la détermination et l’habileté avec laquelle vous avez présidé le Conseil, ainsi que la démonstration que vous nous avez  faite de votre capacité à promouvoir le dialogue et le consensus. Merci.
8.3 Nous arrivons à la fin de notre séance d’aujourd’hui. Sachez que la prochaine séance plénière se tiendra lundi  matin pour adopter les rapports des commissions Sciences exactes et naturelles, Sciences sociales et humaines et APX,  ainsi que le rapport du Comité juridique. Je vous remercie de votre attention et vous souhaite un très bon weekend. La  séance est close.   The meeting rose at 11.35 a.m.  La séance est levée à 11 h 35  Se levanta la sesión a las 11.35  Заседание закрывается в 11.35  صباحاً  ٥٣,١١اجللسة يف الساعة  رُفعت   会议于 11 时 35 分结束