1. The President:   Good afternoon ladies and gentlemen. I declare open the tenth plenary meeting of this General Conference,  which will be devoted to the continuation of the General Policy Debate. We will now continue with national statements,  but before that, in order to make our afternoon as efficient as possible, we will need to continue the good practice of  respecting the six-minute time limit. I wish to thank you in advance for your understanding and cooperation in this regard.  Take note that when you hear the musical signal, you have one minute to conclude your speech. I now have the honour  to call on our first speaker, His Excellency Mr Carmelo Abela, Minister of Foreign Affairs and Trade Promotion of Malta.  Minister, the floor is yours.
2.1 Mr Abela (Malta):   Madam President, Director-General, Excellencies, fellow colleagues, culture is who we are. It underpins our  history, our identity, and our sense of belonging. It also forges bridges between people and connects communities. Over  the years, UNESCO has undertaken substantial efforts not only to strengthen ties between societies but also to highlight  the catalytic role of culture, education, and science in bringing people together. As a result of its heritage roots and its  multifaceted diversity, Malta is in a unique position to appreciate the essence and value of culture in everyday life. Malta  is confident that investing in our culture and heritage will lead to further cultural exchange and cultural diplomacy.  Understanding culture brings harmony to increasingly multicultural societies.  With today’s global cultural engagement,  cultural diplomacy is going beyond a monopoly of governmental agencies and involves diverse stakeholders from the  public sector, business community, and civil society. With such a diversity of players involved in cultural engagement,  intercultural dialogue can be further enhanced with the noble aim of bringing peaceful coexistence between people of  different races and religions.
2.2 Culture can also play an important role in foreign policy. Cultural cooperation can nurture dialogue, open- mindedness, and respect. Intercultural dialogue can help prevent conflicts and foster reconciliation between countries  and religions. Culture can respond to global challenges such as the integration of refugees and radicalization. It  contributes to economic growth and provides the private sector with opportunities that could lead to better market  opportunities. I take this opportunity to express Malta’s great sense of pride and satisfaction that its capital, Valletta,  together with all 68 local councils in the country and the Dutch city of Leeuwarden will – as from January – take on the  role of European Capital of Culture for a whole year. Malta will continue to seek to maximize on opportunities, such as  this role of Valletta as European Capital of Culture in 2018, to strengthen this synergy as a means of developing a  stronger sense of awareness and understanding among the diverse elements and stakeholders in the Mediterranean  region.
2.3 Ladies and gentlemen, this 39th session of the General Conference is being held at a crucial point in time when  we are witnessing whole cultural patrimonies being destroyed and wiped out. Ongoing reports of terrorists and organized  crime groups targeting cultural sites, especially in conflict zones, is not only worrying but also deplorable. It has become  highly apparent that, in certain conflict zones, cultural destruction is not incidental to the conflict but is being carried out  systematically either on the basis of ideology or religion, or to persecute by wiping out the identity and existence of  distinctive communities. Sometimes it is done for pure greed or to finance terrorist acts. The recognition by the  International Criminal Court that destruction of cultural heritage may constitute a war crime reinforces the fact that  protection of cultural heritage is not only a cultural issue but also a security and humanitarian imperative. Attacks on  cultural heritage are crimes against the international community, against our social fabric, against what brings us  together – they are crimes against world heritage. We cannot afford to allow specific cultural patrimonies to be  irreparably lost. I urge the international community to stand united. This is not a time to focus exclusively on our domestic  agendas – it is time to think about our common good. Each and every country can play its part in this fight. Last February,  in its capacity as President of the Council of the European Union for the first half of the current year, Malta convened the  fourth meeting of the informal network of law enforcement authorities and expertise competent in the field of cultural  goods. This provided several Member States and stakeholders from different countries with the opportunity to come  together and engage in discussions aimed at addressing cultural property crime more effectively.
2.4 Finally, since its establishment, UNESCO has helped to inspire organizations and individuals to pursue a higher  ideal and improve the livelihood of communities, societies, countries, and of the world we live in. However, today this is  not enough. Countries, organizations and people not only need inspiration to act, they also need to see a thirst for  change for the better, a quest to reach higher ideals. It is here that UNESCO cannot fail. With an ever-changing global  community, UNESCO needs to continue to reform itself. It needs to reform itself to remain financially sound and  organizationally solid so that it is capable of spreading its much-needed message in today’s world. Finally, I thank the  outgoing Director-General Ms Irina Bokova for her leadership, and wish all the best for her successor. Thank you very  much.
3. The President:   Thank you Your Excellency. Now I would like to call on the second speaker, His Excellency Mr Jacek  Czaputowicz, Under-Secretary of State and the Minister of Foreign Affairs of Poland.
4.1 Mr Czaputowicz (Poland):   Madam President, Madam Director-General, dear delegates, let me start by expressing gratitude on behalf of  the Polish Government to the Director-General, Ms lrina Bokova, for her efforts to ensure UNESCO’s functioning at a  difficult time and to preserve the prestige of our Organization. Poland will endorse Ms Audrey Azoulay as the candidate  for the post of UNESCO’s new Director-General. We will cooperate with Director-General Azoulay in her work to reform  and improve UNESCO. Let me also thank Ms Zohour Alaoui, President of the 39th session of the General Conference,  for ensuring efficient proceedings.
4.2 Ladies and gentlemen, the Government of Poland recognizes UNESCO’s historic achievements in education,  science, culture and environmental protection. We attach great importance to the activities of the World Heritage  Committee, which has a positive role in protecting the civilizational and natural heritage of humankind. Poland had the  pleasure of hosting the Committee’s 41st session in Krakow in July this year. We also welcome the implementation of the  UNESCO Fellowships Programme, which offers hundreds of students from developing countries a possibility to study at  the world’s best universities, including Poland’s. My Government supports all measures taken by UNESCO to protect the  heritage of civilization in conflict and war areas. We commend and support the UNESCO-sponsored  resolution 2347 (2017) of the United Nations Security Council, which equips our Organization with new room for  manoeuvre in conflict zones. This is a course of action that our country will strongly support as a non-permanent member  of the Security Council in 2018-2019. We believe that it will be possible to save humankind’s endangered heritage in  conflict areas. Poland is willing to assist countries in need in this regard by sharing its specialists’ work, knowledge and  expertise.
4.3 Dear delegates, the Memory of the World Programme is our priority. Documentary heritage, as foreseen by this  programme, is testament to humankind’s memory and diversity. We think that UNESCO should not only protect the  memory of humanity’s most epic times and legacy, but also make sure that dark and sometimes shameful pages of its  history are never forgotten, as a warning for future generations. That is why UNESCO should engage, on a greater scale  than before, in commemorating the victims of the Nazi and communist totalitarian regimes. Poland has some experience  in this matter and is willing to share it with its partners in UNESCO. Since 2016, the Witold Pilecki Centre for Totalitarian  Studies has been operating in Warsaw. lt documents the crimes of the Nazi and Soviet totalitarian regimes in Poland. We  will lobby for UNESCO’s patronage over this centre.
4.4 Ladies and gentlemen, the Government of Poland is of the opinion that the achievements of UNESCO cannot be  doubted. However, we cannot conceal our concern that the Organization needs fundamental reforms to keep functioning  and remain efficient. The reform should focus on the Organization as such – its structure, staff, programme  implementation funding, and budget. We are opposed to bringing political conflicts to UNESCO. We should be aware of  our diversity and cultural differences. Our diversity is our strength. UNESCO has always been marked by dialogue  between its members and an ability to settle disputes and controversies. Universality is the most important feature of our  Organization, as Madam Director-General Bokova has perfectly put it. That is why we regret the United States of  America’s decision to withdraw from UNESCO. We are gratified to note that, despite its decision, the United States of  America is going to retain observer status in UNESCO, and take part in a number of its projects. Dear delegates, let me  finish by underlining that UNESCO and its mission has Poland’s unqualified support. lt is our deep conviction that by  working together we will be able to deal  with the challenges facing our Organization. Thank you for your kind attention.
5. The President:   Thank you, Your Excellency, Minister of Foreign Affairs of Poland. Now I would like to give the floor to Her  Excellency, Ms Merete Riisager, Minister of Education of Denmark.
6.1 Ms Riisager (Denmark):   Madam President of the General Conference, Madam Director-General, Mr Chairperson of the Executive Board,  Excellencies, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to congratulate Ms Azoulay on her designation as the new Director- General of UNESCO. We have great expectations for your leadership and integrity, and we hope and expect to see the  strong results and impact of UNESCO in the years to come. The United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs)  represent a strong vision of a more inclusive and sustainable world. The Danish Government remains committed to  delivering and ensuring progress towards the SDGs both globally and nationally. In September, our Prime Minister,  Mr Lars Løkke Rasmussen, launched a new global initiative “Partnering for Green Growth and the Global Goals 2030”  (P4G). We are proud to join forces with governments, cities, the private sector and civil society all over the world to move  forward, including with the timely and meaningful involvement of youth. This is also true at national level. The Danish  Government has set out an ambitious national action plan for the follow-up to the SDGs in which we have identified 37  areas for priority action.
6.2 Now, allow me to talk about education. Education is very close to my heart. Quality in education is about  empowering children and youth to make the most of their opportunities and shape their lives and education. Quality in  education is about democratic citizenship, also with a view to preventing violent extremism. This is why I have invited all  schools and children in Denmark to engage in a national campaign to focus on community, democracy and citizenship.  Quality in education is also about ensuring comprehensive sexuality education for all, empowering students to master  their own lives and shape their gender identities. Quality in education is unthinkable without committed and respected  teachers. We need to set schools and teachers free in order to deliver quality education for all, duly reflecting  professional standards and local needs.
6.3 Madam President, over the last years we have seen horrible examples of violent extremists destroying  outstanding cultural heritage, as happened in Palmyra, Syrian Arab Republic. Denmark acknowledges the important role  and results of UNESCO in fighting these crimes. In full support of these efforts, the Danish Government has proposed
190  starting the process of formal ratification of the Second Protocol to the Hague Convention of 1954 for the Protection of  Cultural Property in the Event of Armed Conflict. Furthermore, in relation to the 2003 Convention for the Safeguarding of  the Intangible Cultural Heritage, we are currently stepping up our efforts in this regard, and encouraging communities to  make proposals for a national register. The work of UNESCO in strengthening free media and the safety of journalists is  extremely important. Denmark supports these efforts as an active member of the Council and the Bureau of the  International Programme for the Development of Communication (IPDC). In the same vein, Denmark is supportive of  artistic freedom, and we are co-organizing an important side event next Wednesday: “Setting a New Agenda:  Partnerships for artistic freedom”, to which you are all kindly invited. To conclude, Denmark believes that for UNESCO to  remain fit for purpose, we need to continue to deepen reform of the Organization in line with the priorities set by the  United Nations Secretary-General, including governance reform. Thank you very much for listening.
7. The President:   Thank you Madam Minister for your speech. Now I would like to invite to the podium His Excellency  Mr Muhammad Baligh Ur Rehman, Minister of State for Federal Education and Professional Training of Pakistan.
8.1 Mr Rehman (Pakistan):   Bismillāh ir-rahmān ir-rahīm. Madam President of the General Conference, Madam Director-General,  Honourable Ministers, distinguished delegates, ladies and gentlemen. it is indeed a pleasure and honour for me to  address the UNESCO General Conference for the third time since 2013. At the outset, let me extend my sincere  congratulations to Ms Irina Bokova, the outgoing Director-General, for her effective leadership and able stewardship of  UNESCO. Despite the many administrative and financial challenges she confronted during her term, she maintained the  vibrancy and vitality of UNESCO. She surely will be remembered for her outstanding achievements and contributions to  global peace, understanding and development. I also extend my best wishes to the incoming Director-General,  Ms Audrey Azoulay. I assure and pledge my country’s full support to her in the continuous process of strengthening and  improving UNESCO.
8.2 Ladies and gentlemen, after the horrors of the Second World War, UNESCO’s emergence as a harbinger of  peace, hope and optimism was a renewed trust in humanity. It is an ideal platform for intellectual discourse which  celebrates and respects diversity in cultures and thoughts. In today’s world of conflict, political disputes, cultural  differences, widespread poverty and inequalities, UNESCO and its works remain relevant and inspiring. It remains alive  through National Commissions, field offices, UNESCO associations, world heritage sites, innumerable UNESCO awards,  and the network of category 1 and 2 centres.
8.3 Ladies and gentlemen, education and social good cannot prosper or even continue in an environment of terror  and extremism. Unfortunately, various regions of Pakistan have suffered deeply for decades due to this extremism and  terrorism. In some parts of the country, schools have been targeted, blown up and girls have been stopped from going to  school. The Government has made a firm resolve to stop being a hostage to such elements with the resilience and  sacrifices of our people and soldiers. We have successfully rooted out this menace from our country. Now I can relate  with confidence that the terrorist networks in Pakistan have been dismantled, schools in the affected areas are being  rebuilt and Pakistan is showing a tremendous improvement. I also urge all States that we must stand up, raise our voices  and take action against oppression, ethnic cleansing, transborder terrorism, brutality and killings, especially when it is  State-sponsored, so that we can create a conducive environment for socioeconomic development.
8.4 Ladies and gentlemen, I am pleased to share with you the fact that Pakistan is also showing significant progress  in its economic and education sectors. I profoundly believe that democracy is the best accountability. Funding for  education has almost doubled and has also increased in terms of percentage of gross domestic product (GDP). The net  enrolment rates at primary school level have increased dramatically. Transition rates have also shown a phenomenal  increase, with the number of out-of-school children reduced by millions at an unprecedented rate. The quality of  education, teacher recruitment and training, and the provision of the shortfall in educational facilities, remain priorities for  our Government. Gender disparity has also been reduced. I must thank and congratulate UNESCO and its office in  Islamabad for successfully implementing the Malala Fund for Girls’ Right to Education, which Pakistan helped to create  by donating $10 million to UNESCO. I urge all Member States to contribute generously towards this worthy cause.
8.5 Ladies and gentlemen, Pakistan is taking the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) very seriously and has  started working towards achieving these goals with a firm resolve and commitment. We are using non-formal education  models and are going to establish numerous new adult literacy centres. We have also started an institute for non-formal  education and adult literacy, which we later intend to have recognized as a UNESCO category 2 centre so that other  regional countries may also benefit from it. We have also successfully revived our national assessment system and are  all set to launch Trends in International Mathematics and Science Study (TIMSS) assessments in 2019. We have  recently revised our curriculum to focus more on character building, values, global competencies, soft skills and global  citizenship. Finally, I would like to say that Pakistan’s commitment to UNESCO’s mission of creating a just, peaceful and  inclusive world remains unwavering. Pakistan will continue to work hand-in-hand with the global community to make  Pakistan and the world a better and safer place for our future generations. Thank you.
9. The President:   Thank you Your Excellency, and now I would like with pleasure to invite to deliver a statement Her Excellency  Ms Monica Babuc, Minister of Education, Culture and Research of the Republic of Moldova.
10.1 Mme Babuc (République de Moldova) :  Madame la Vice-Présidente de la Conférence générale, Mesdames et Messieurs les ministres, distingués  participants, permettez-moi tout d’abord de féliciter Mme Audrey Azoulay à l’occasion de son élection au poste de
191  Directeur général de l’UNESCO et d’exprimer notre reconnaissance à Mme Irina Bokova pour ses accomplissements  remarquables à la tête de l’UNESCO.
10.2 Nous assistons aujourd’hui à des mutations profondes à l’échelle mondiale, et le progrès de l’humanité se voit  menacé notamment par le changement climatique, le terrorisme et la pauvreté. Ce contexte particulier rend décisive la  mission fondamentale de l’UNESCO de promouvoir la paix et la solidarité intellectuelle et morale de l’humanité, car ces  défis ne peuvent être relevés qu’au moyen de la coopération internationale entre les États et à travers un système  multilatéral efficace.
10.3 L’éducation de qualité est le fondement du développement durable d’une société et, de ce fait, représente une  priorité nationale pour la Moldavie. Les réformes structurelles lancées par le Gouvernement permettront d’ajuster le  cadre normatif aux normes européennes pour assurer la qualité et l’efficacité de l’apprentissage. Parmi les priorités à  long terme, nous nous proposons de repenser le processus d’optimisation du réseau scolaire et d’établir de nouveaux  principes pour son organisation, en assurant à toutes et à tous l’accès à une éducation de qualité et en plaçant un  accent particulier sur le respect des petites communautés et des minorités nationales, mais aussi sur l’efficacité des  dépenses prévues pour la réorganisation des établissements d’enseignement. Le processus intense de révision de  curricula récemment démarré est axé sur l’acquisition par les jeunes des compétences nécessaires à la vie. Dans le  même temps, nous allons mettre l’accent sur la débureaucratisation du travail de l’enseignant, tout en veillant à  l’assurance de la qualité de l’enseignement et des méthodes d’apprentissage. Il est également important de nous  assurer que, dans tous les domaines de formation professionnelle, les dépenses éducatives répondent aux attentes du  marché du travail. C’est pourquoi nous soutenons un dialogue permanent avec les employeurs et les autres parties  impliquées, tout en promouvant de nouvelles formes de formation comme, par exemple, l’enseignement par alternance.
10.4 Mesdames et Messieurs, dans le domaine de la culture, la République de Moldova s’est engagée ces dernières  années dans un vaste processus visant la sauvegarde du patrimoine culturel. Sa stratégie de développement de la  culture définit les objectifs de développement pour 2020, lesquels ont vocation à faire de la culture une priorité nationale.  La coopération de la République de Moldova avec l’UNESCO connaît actuellement une évolution dynamique, marquée  par l’inscription des chants traditionnels ou encore des techniques traditionnelles de fabrication de tapis sur la Liste  représentative du patrimoine culturel immatériel de l’humanité. Il est à noter que les secteurs culturels et créatifs  constituent non seulement une ressource culturelle, mais aussi un outil économique. Nous soutenons l’engagement  de l’UNESCO en faveur du développement des industries créatives. C’est dans ce cadre que nous avons multiplié les  efforts pour intégrer les secteurs culturels et créatifs dans l’économie nationale. À cet effet, un premier pôle créatif verra  le jour en Moldavie en 2018.
10.5 Honorable assistance, nous vivons à l’ère de l’information. Les nouvelles technologies sont devenues partie  intégrante du processus de développement durable de la société moderne. De ce fait, le Gouvernement de la Moldavie  poursuivra les réformes démarrées dans le secteur des TIC avec le développement des parcs informationnels et des  hubs IT. Le Gouvernement s’est engagé également dans une réforme profonde du système national de recherche et  d’innovation visant notamment à renforcer l’impact de la recherche et de l’innovation sur l’économie nationale. En vue  d’assurer une expertise pertinente en matière de politiques de développement de la science et de l’innovation, un  Conseil pour la recherche et le développement, l’innovation et le transfert technologique a été formé auprès du Premier  Ministre. Le financement concurrentiel et l’élaboration de propositions politiques seront ainsi assurés par la nouvelle  Agence nationale pour la recherche et le développement.
10.6 Pour conclure, je tiens à réaffirmer l’intérêt et l’engagement de mon pays à poursuivre sa coopération avec  l’UNESCO au nom des valeurs de la démocratie, de la tolérance et du multiculturalisme. Je vous remercie de votre  attention.
11. The President:   Thank you, Excellency. I would now like to call the next speaker, His Excellency Mr John C. Muyingo, Minister of  State for Education and Sport of Uganda.
12.1 Mr Muyingo (Uganda):   Thank you very much. Madam President, Mr Chairperson of the Executive Board, Madam Director-General,  Your Excellencies, distinguished delegates, ladies and gentlemen, I congratulate Ms Alaoui upon her election to the  position of President of the 39th session of the UNESCO General Conference. I would like also to congratulate Ms Irina  Bokova upon her successful completion of her tenure as Director-General of UNESCO. We will remember her for her  resilience, commitment, perseverance and her dedication to UNESCO. It was during her tenure that the issue of cultural  heritage was recognized as critical by the United Nations Security Council, which passed two fundamental resolutions in  this respect. I wish her success in her future endeavours. Madam President, allow me also to congratulate Ms Audrey  Azoulay on her nomination as Director-General and assure her of Uganda’s unwavering support for her to fulfil her  mandate. The incoming Director-General will need to focus on redirecting UNESCO to achieve its core principles and the  mandate for which it was established.
12.2 Madam President, Uganda is committed to the attainment of Sustainable Development Goal 4 set by the United  Nations and to the achievement of the Education 2030 Agenda. Uganda therefore supports the Director-General’s  proposals to inject resources in favour of the 2030 Agenda. Uganda believes that investing in education is the most cost- effective way to drive economic development, skills, women’s empowerment and foster progress on all 17 Sustainable  Development Goals (SDGs). Uganda, for her part, has put in place strategies to ensure effective delivery of appropriate  education to its citizens that is clearly linked to all SDGs. Uganda therefore appreciates UNESCO’s support received  over the years in its efforts to transit the 2030 Agenda into reality. In 2016 and 2017, Uganda received support through  the Participation Programme, from both regular budget and extrabudgetary funding to support various initiatives,
192  including: the China Funds-in-Trust and Capacity Development for Education (CapED) projects; the promotion of gender  equity and equality in education through gender-sensitive primary teacher education supported by the Government of  Azerbaijan; the “Skilling Uganda” programme through the Better Education for Africa’s Rise (BEAR) II project; and global  citizenship education, which is integrated into the existing national primary school curriculum with support from  UNESCO’s Asia-Pacific Centre of Education for International Understanding (APCEIU).
12.3 Madam President, Uganda supports the proposed strategic objectives under Major Programme II, namely:  strengthening science, technology and innovation systems; promoting international cooperation on critical challenges to  sustainable development; the role of biodiversity and the geosciences; increasing resilience, and sites for sustainable  development. We are convinced that these proposals will go a long way to strengthening science, technology and  innovation (STI) policy as well as protecting our biodiversity.
12.4 Uganda supports the promotion of sustainable utilization and conservation of endangered medicinal plants and  the designation of important natural sites for sustainable conservation and climate change adaptation in Uganda. Uganda  supports the promotion of socio-economic transformation, and therefore endorses Major Programme III, with the  strategic objective of supporting inclusive social development, fostering intercultural dialogue for the rapprochement of  cultures, promoting ethical principles and the thematic areas thereunder. Uganda is committed to UNESCO’s  conventions on conservation and the safeguarding and promotion of heritage. Nevertheless, conservation of heritage  must be conducted in tandem with sustainable development, development of museums, and the promotion of  intercultural dialogue. We therefore call for quick operationalization of the establishment of the ad hoc committee to  discuss the linkages between sizeable development and natural and cultural heritage.
12.5 Madam President, Uganda is totally committed to the advancement of conservation and natural cultural heritage  for humankind. To this end, Uganda is a candidate for election to the World Heritage Committee and requests your  support. Uganda is also committed to the promotion of freedom of expression and access to information as well as  fostering freedom of the media. In this respect, Uganda liberalized its airwaves in order to promote community access to  information, participation and promotion of dialogue. Uganda has made strides in increasing access to information and  promoting the use of community multimedia centres (CMCs), while addressing the challenge of increasing diversity of  content for public access and safeguarding documentary heritage.
12.6 As I conclude, Madam President, allow me to state that as we deliberate on the issues and challenges faced by  UNESCO today, particularly financing its operations, we hope that its core functions, in particular those pertaining to  UNESCO programmes and projects within the African continent, will not be adversely affected. I thank you for your  attention, and am saying all this for God and my country. Thank you.
13. The President:   Thank you very much Your Excellency, and now I would like to call the next speaker, His Excellency Mr Bence  Rétvári, Minister of Human Capacities of Hungary.
14.1 Mr Rétvári (Hungary):   Madam President, Mr Chairperson of the Executive Board, Excellencies, ladies and gentlemen, allow me to start  by congratulating Her Excellency Ms Zohour Alaoui on her election as President of this session of UNESCO’s General  Conference. On behalf of the Hungarian Government, I wish her a successful presidency.
14.2 According to paragraph 2 of Article II of UNESCO’s Constitution, the purpose of the Organization is to contribute  to peace and security by promoting collaboration among the nations through education, science and culture in order to  further universal respect of justice without distinction of race or language. Ukraine ratified the UNESCO Constitution as a  Member State. In spite of this, Ukraine’s new education act violates the rights of minorities to receive education in their  native languages. According to the new Ukrainian legislation, with the exclusion of native language subjects in future,  children from national minorities will be taught all subjects in Ukrainian and not in their own language from the 5th grade  upwards, or age 10. Approximately 150,000 Hungarian people live in Ukraine in the sub-Carpathian province of the  country. As a matter of fact, Ukraine is a multi-ethnic country with a variety of national minorities. Therefore, this newly  adopted education act violates the right of Hungarian and other national minorities who are also Ukrainian citizens and  who would like to live their everyday lives without discrimination and would like to keep learning their own language.  There are several other European Union States, besides Hungary, which have protested in relation to the new Ukrainian  education act, including Bulgaria, Greece, Poland and Romania. Mr Lamberto Zannier, High Commissioner on National  Minorities at the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe (OSCE), also shares our concerns at the creation  of Ukraine’s new education act. The Government of Hungary requests that institutions such as the UNESCO  International Bureau of Education (IBE) and the General Conference of UNESCO help in safeguarding minority rights in  Ukraine in the field of education. UNESCO should take action to preserve the right for minorities to learn in their own  native language.
14.3 The historic presence of Christianity in certain regions of the world is essential and has to be preserved. This is  why Hungary actively supports ongoing efforts in conserving ancient Christian manuscripts in Iraq, including those saved  at the onset of the takeover of Mosul by Daesh, the restoration of over 30 churches in Lebanon, the restoration project of  the Church of the Nativity in Bethlehem, as well as the restoration of the Holy Sepulchre in Jerusalem. We also financed  projects in West and Central Africa to conserve and promote world heritage. This support programme aligns well with the  Hungarian Government’s commitment to strengthening Christian communities in the Middle East and Africa. Hungary  has established a unique government department for this work, the Deputy State Secretariat for the Aid of Persecuted  Christians. In our opinion, Europe is based on ancient Greek philosophy, Roman law and Christian traditions. The  Christian heritage belongs to the European culture. I think Europe must preserve its own cultural identity and values  more during the migration crisis as well.
14.4 Due to Hungary’s geographical location, the issue of water is extremely important for us. In this regard, the  President of Hungary, Mr János Áder, convened two successful water summits in Budapest, which produced a set of  practical recommendations for action. We also plan to host a third water summit in the coming biennium. We note with  satisfaction that the Executive Board recommended to this session of the General Conference a specific main line of  action aimed at strengthening the impact of the International Hydrological Programme (IHP). UNESCO has a very  important role in this and we stand ready to actively support its work.
14.5 Madam President, the life of the Hungarian composer, ethnomusicologist and musical educator Zoltán Kodály is  being celebrated in association with UNESCO this year. We are proud that this anniversary was preceded by the  inscription of the safeguarding of the folk music heritage by the Kodály concept to the Register of Good Safeguarding  Practices. Finally, let me also thank Ms Irina Bokova for her tireless work in guiding the Organization in very difficult  times. Thank you for your attention.
(16.1)  Mr Alfares (Kuwait) (translation from the Arabic):   Bismillāh ir-raḥmān ir-raḥīm (In the name of God, the Merciful, the Clement). Your Excellency, President of the 39th  session of the General Conference of UNESCO, Your Excellency, Chairperson of the Executive Board of UNESCO, Your  Excellency, Director-General of UNESCO, Your Excellencies, ministers, heads of delegations, ambassadors and permanent  delegates to UNESCO, ladies and gentlemen, as-salāmu ‘alaikum wa-raḥmat Allāhi wa-barakātuh (Peace and the Mercy and  Blessings of God be upon you). I greet you warmly. To begin with, I am honoured and pleased to convey to you greetings from  the Emir, Government and people of Kuwait, and to express to you their great appreciation and gratitude for UNESCO’s great  efforts in tackling the problems of humankind and grappling with contemporary issues by laying down the rules for peace and  security among the peoples of the world, by means of education, science and culture. In this connection, on behalf of my  delegation, I am also bound to congratulate Her Excellency, the President of the 39th session of the General Conference,  Ms Zohour Alaoui on her election to this office, following on from His Excellency, Mr Stanley Simataa, President of the 38th  session, and to wish her every success in steering the meetings of the current session.
(16.2) Ladies and gentlemen, you are not unaware that our material world, which brings together billions of people, is  currently traversing extremely difficult and worrying times. It is also passing through decisive and dangerous turns in various  paths and at various levels as a result of the numerous transformations and dramatic changes that have come about in recent  years at the international and regional levels. There is first and foremost an ever-widening circle of unrest and conflicts in large  parts of the world. In this connection, we reiterate that Kuwait is continuing to assume its ethical and humanitarian  responsibilities towards the problems of human beings worldwide. We also reiterate the noble directives of the leader of global  humanitarian work, the Emir of Kuwait, Sheikh Sabah al-Ahmad al-Jaber al-Sabah, may God protect and preserve him, urging  Kuwait to continue to offer and host numerous initiatives, projects and conferences concerned with human beings. Therefore,  Kuwait will host the International Conference on the Suffering of Palestinian Children on 12-13 November 2017, in the wake of  the occupying force’s violations of international children’s rights conventions. Furthermore, Kuwait will host a donors’  conference in support of education in Somalia, believing, as we do, in the importance of education for the renaissance of  peoples and the achievement of the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), in addition to broadening community and private  partnerships, such as the Global Knowledge Partnership Foundation as a UNESCO partner. His Highness, the Emir of Kuwait,  has offered a financial contribution of $5 million in support of UNESCO activities relating to the Syrian crisis, to be allocated to  refugee students in Jordan, complementary to earlier Kuwaiti support for UNESCO initiatives in favour of Syrians and  Lebanese worth $500,000 in 2015, and a contribution from His Highness Sheikh Sabah al-Ahmad al-Jaber al-Sabah, may God  protect and preserve him, worth $3.5 million in support of UNESCO programmes and activities in general since 2013. With  regard to communication, work is under way on Kuwait’s hosting of the Global Centre for Excellence for the Empowerment of  Persons with Disabilities using Information and Communication Technologies (ICTs), which was launched at the previous  session. With respect to the environment and preservation of natural resources, Kuwait will host a UNESCO category 2 centre  for water research at the Kuwait Institute for Scientific Research (KISR).
(16.3) Ladies and gentlemen, Kuwait will would like to express its support for the goals and objectives adopted by the  Organization in its plan of work for 2018-2021, the second period of the Medium-Term Strategy for 2014-2021, which calls for  collective and interconnected work within the United Nations system aimed at tackling rising challenges, accompanying  changes and current global conditions, and inculcating the principles of the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development. We  call upon Member States and partners to lend help and assistance to the Organization to enable it to carry its burdens and  achieve its development objectives in the service of humankind, and to realize its global dream consisting of building a world  which is blessed with peace, equality and justice.
(16.4) In conclusion, we commend the Director-General, Ms Irina Bokova, for her efforts on the internal reform of the  Organization by ensuring transparency and a results-based approach. At the same time, we congratulate Ms Audrey Azoulay  on her nomination as Director-General of UNESCO, and wish her every success in her future tasks. I also express to you our  deep appreciation for the efforts exerted by the Secretariat to protect and preserve the cultural heritage worldwide, and in  particular the cultural heritage of the Old City of Jerusalem, and the most recent act, which was to inscribe the city of Hebron  on the World Heritage List of sites of outstanding universal value. Such heritage remains subject to blatant, ongoing violations  by the Israeli occupation authorities and their continued attacks against al-Aqṣà Mosque with its great symbolism for Muslims.  We pray to God Almighty that peace and security may prevail worldwide. We offer our best wishes for the success of this  session, and express our thanks and appreciation to the organizers. As-salāmu ‘alaikum wa-raḥmat Allāhi wa-barakātuh  “Peace and the Mercy and Blessings of God be upon you”.
17. The President:   Thank you very much Your Excellency for your speech. Now I would like to invite His Excellency Mr Ahmat  Khazali Acyl, Minister of Education and Civic Promotion of Chad, to deliver his statement on behalf of his delegation.
18.1 M. Khazali Acyl (Tchad) :   Madame la Présidente de la Conférence générale, Monsieur le Président du Conseil exécutif, Madame la  Directrice générale de l’UNESCO, Excellences, Mesdames et Messieurs, au nom de la République du Tchad, permettez- moi tout d’abord de féliciter Mme Zohour Alaoui pour sa brillante élection au poste de Présidente de la 39e session de la  Conférence générale. Je voudrais saluer le Président du Conseil exécutif pour la maîtrise avec laquelle il a conduit son  mandat à la tête de cet organe consultatif dont le Tchad est très honoré d’avoir été membre pour le mandat qui s’achève.  À Mme Irina Bokova, nous rendons un vibrant hommage pour la qualité du travail accompli à la tête de l’Organisation  durant deux mandats. Vous partez, mais nous n’oublierons pas votre combat pour le développement de l’éducation en  faveur des personnes défavorisées – en particulier, le Programme de renforcement des capacités en alphabétisation,  dont le Tchad a bénéficié et qui lui a servi de tremplin vers une stratégie éducative plus large financée par les  partenaires de l’éducation –, ni votre combat exemplaire pour la sauvegarde du patrimoine culturel mondial détruit par  les terroristes à Palmyre en Syrie, à Tombouctou au Mali et partout dans le monde. Nous vous souhaitons bon vent.
18.2 Madame la Présidente, mon pays, le Tchad, entend participer pleinement aux activités de notre Organisation et,  en particulier, à la mise en œuvre des ODD 2030. Comme stipulé dans son préambule, le Programme de  développement durable est fédérateur. Chaque pays devrait se sentir concerné et y apporter sa contribution en prenant
195  des mesures audacieuses en faveur de la paix, de l’éducation, de la santé, de la protection de l’environnement et du  bien-être de la population. Pour sa part, le Gouvernement de la République du Tchad a adopté, en juillet 2017, sa  stratégie de développement durable intitulée « Vision 2030, le Tchad que nous voulons ». Cette stratégie converge avec  les aspirations des populations tchadiennes et les ambitions du Gouvernement à l’horizon 2030. Elle est cohérente avec  l’Agenda 2063 de l’Union africaine et les Objectifs de développement durable, auxquels le Tchad a souscrit. Mesdames,  Messieurs, la mise en œuvre du Programme 2030 est une grande responsabilité pour nos pays. Nous sommes  conscients que l’échéance fixée par l’Assemblée générale des Nations Unies pour la réalisation des 17 Objectifs de  développement durable n’est pas si lointaine. C’est pourquoi nous avons prescrit, dans les actions du Gouvernement, le  caractère prioritaire de l’éducation et avons souscrit à tous les engagements internationaux pertinents en la matière.  C’est ainsi qu’un plan intitulé « Plan intérimaire de l’éducation au Tchad » pour la période 2018-2020 vient d’être élaboré  et adopté. Il s’agit d’un plan d’action qui s’arrime au Plan national de développement et fait suite à la Stratégie intérimaire  pour l’éducation et l’alphabétisation achevée en 2016. Ce plan vient d’être approuvé par le Partenariat mondial pour  l’éducation, qui accepte de le financer, comme le précédent.
18.3 Mesdames et Messieurs, je voudrais évoquer, pour la déplorer, la violence que vit notre monde aujourd’hui et  dont notre jeunesse est à la fois victime et actrice. Qu’est-ce qui nous manque aujourd’hui pour vivre en paix dans ce  monde ultra-numérisé ? Dans ce monde de surconsommation ? Nos enfants reçoivent-ils l’éducation qu’il faut ? N’aurait- on pas pu prévenir l’extrémisme qui engendre la violence et la désolation aujourd’hui – Daech au Moyen-Orient et en  Europe, Boko Haram dans la région du lac Tchad, Shebab dans la Corne de l’Afrique, et autres nébuleuses au Mali et  autres pays voisins ? Au nom du peuple tchadien, nous adressons nos sincères condoléances aux familles éprouvées,  et renouvelons notre solidarité. Aussi, pour mettre fin à cette escalade meurtrière sans frontière, nous demandons à  l’UNESCO d’aider nos pays à développer des programmes d’enseignement basés sur la prévention de l’extrémisme  violent, l’éducation à la culture de la paix, le dialogue interculturel, et l’éducation à la citoyenneté et aux droits de  l’homme.
18.4 Mesdames et Messieurs, aux défis de développement et sécuritaires, s’ajoutent les défis environnementaux,  notamment l’assèchement du lac Tchad et la perte de biodiversité et d’écosystèmes. À cet égard, le Gouvernement de la  République du Tchad, par ma voix, soutient fortement l’initiative du Nigéria d’organiser, au cours de cette session, une  réunion spéciale sur le sujet.
18.5 Madame la Présidente, nous sommes conscients des limites de notre Organisation. Mais nous devons  demeurer tout aussi conscients que l’UNESCO est une organisation indispensable pour la poursuite des idéaux de la  paix dans le monde, de la tolérance, du respect de l’autre, du dialogue et de la protection de l’environnement par la  promotion de l’éducation, des sciences, de la culture et de la communication. Ce sont là les principales voies grâce  auxquelles l’on pourra faire face aux différentes crises qui nous menacent, et qui permettront aux uns et aux autres de  développer les habilités nécessaires au relèvement de nouveaux défis et amélioreront le vivre ensemble et les attitudes  propices à notre épanouissement, tant individuel que collectif.
18.6 Pour terminer, je voudrais, au nom de S. E. Idriss Déby Itno, Président de la République du Tchad, en mon nom  propre et au nom de la délégation tchadienne, féliciter Mme Audrey Azoulay pour sa brillante élection à la tête de notre  Institution. Nous l’assurons de notre entier soutien dans l’exercice de ses nouvelles fonctions. Je vous remercie.
19. The President:   Thank you. I would now like to call the next speaker, Her Excellency Ms Sèngdeuane Lachanthaboune, Minister  of Education and Sport of the Lao People’s Democratic Republic.
20.1 Mme Lachanthaboune (République démocratique populaire lao) :  Sabaï dii, bonsoir. Madame la Présidente, Monsieur le Président du Conseil exécutif, Madame la Directrice  générale de l’UNESCO, Excellences, Mesdames et Messieurs, chefs d’État et de gouvernement et chefs de délégation  des pays membres, au nom de la délégation de la République démocratique populaire lao et en mon nom personnel, je  suis très honorée de prendre la parole devant cette Conférence générale si importante. Tout d’abord, permettez-moi  d’adresser mes sincères félicitations à Mme Zohour Alaoui pour son élection à la présidence de la 39e session de la  Conférence générale de l’UNESCO.
20.2 Madame la Présidente, le Gouvernement du Laos s’est fixé l’objectif de sortir du statut de pays sous-développé  en 2020 en faisant de l’éducation un secteur privilégié. Après l’approbation du Cadre d’action Éducation 2030, le  Ministère de l’éducation et des sports a nommé des coordinateurs nationaux pour l’Objectif de développement durable 4  et organisé des réunions de discussion à l’échelle nationale dans le but de diffuser son contenu et de le relier au  huitième plan quinquennal pour la période 2016-2020. Durant la dernière décennie, le Ministère de l’éducation et des  sports s’est focalisé sur l’amélioration de la qualité de l’éducation, en développant largement la préscolarisation et en  renforçant la qualité de l’enseignement/apprentissage aux niveaux primaire et secondaire ainsi que celle de la formation  des enseignants. Parallèlement au renforcement des compétences des administrateurs de l’éducation à tous les  niveaux, le Ministère de l’éducation et des sports a également élaboré plusieurs actes juridiques pour assurer le  développement du système éducatif, notamment le droit de l’éducation, un plan de développement et une stratégie  éducative. Après son intégration dans la communauté économique de l’ASEAN, le Gouvernement laotien a davantage  promu la formation professionnelle et encouragé la coopération avec les particuliers dans le cadre du renforcement des  compétences, afin de répondre aux besoins du marché du travail à l’intérieur du pays et à l’étranger. Pour encourager  l’apprentissage tout au long de la vie, nous avons organisé des formations afin de maintenir le niveau d’éducation à  travers des programmes de formation non formelle et de formation professionnelle réservés aux adolescents et aux  adultes. Nous estimons qu’en 2025, la population laotienne âgée de 15 à 35 ans terminera le premier cycle du  secondaire du programme d’éducation non formelle. Pour former les élèves en vue d’en faire des citoyens du monde,
196  nous avons intégré le contenu de l’éducation à la citoyenneté mondiale dans le programme de formation, et avons  également introduit l’enseignement/apprentissage de l’anglais à partir de la troisième année du primaire.
20.3 Dans le domaine scientifique, une politique stratégique et des législations ont été élaborées et adoptées pour  servir de base à la promotion du développement scientifique et technologique. Au cours des cinq dernières années, nous  avons soutenu 104 projets de recherche. Ont été achevées la création du Centre numérique (data center) et celle du  Centre de formation des fonctionnaires administrateurs des sciences et de la technologie.
20.4 Dans le domaine culturel, le dossier de proposition d’inscription de la Plaine des Jarres sur la Liste du  patrimoine mondial a été élaboré et soumis au Centre du patrimoine mondial pour approbation en septembre 2017.  Actuellement, le dossier de proposition d’inscription de la Réserve nationale Hin Nam No sur la Liste du patrimoine  naturel est en cours de préparation. Des réunions pour le renforcement des compétences de l’État et des organisations  sociales concernées par la mise en œuvre de la Convention de 2005 sur la protection et la promotion de la diversité des  expressions culturelles ont été organisées. Nous avons inscrit l’artisanat d’art laotien, des chants régionaux, le lam vong  –danse traditionnelle lao –, le khên lao –instrument de musique traditionnel lao –, les marionnettes Ipok et le tissage à  motifs des Naga sur la Liste du patrimoine immatériel de l’UNESCO.
20.5 Madame la Présidente, Mesdames, Messieurs, les résultats ci-mentionnés n’auraient pas été obtenus sans le  soutien et l’aide fournis aux niveaux national et international. Au nom du Gouvernement laotien, très reconnaissant de  cet appui, je profite donc de cette occasion pour vous adresser nos sincères remerciements pour vos soutiens futurs et  remercier plus particulièrement la Directrice générale de l’UNESCO, Mme Irina Bokova. Pour terminer, je vous souhaite  une fructueuse 39e session de la Conférence générale. Je vous remercie de votre attention.
21. The President:   Now I have the pleasure to call on the next speaker Mr Roberto Aguilar Gómez, Minister of Education of the  Plurinational State of Bolivia.
(22.1) Mr Aguilar Gómez (Plurinational State of Bolivia) (translated from the Spanish):    Thank you very much, Madam President of the 39th session of the General Conference of UNESCO. I also extend  respectful and cordial greetings to all the representatives of the different Member States attending the Conference. I also wish  to extend to the Director-General of UNESCO special greetings from the Bolivian State, Government and people, who have  very fond memories of her visit to Bolivia.
(22.2) On behalf of the Plurinational State of Bolivia, I congratulate Ms Audrey Azoulay, recently nominated  as Director- General of this important international organization, and wish her every success in her role as head of UNESCO. Allow me  also to express my country’s determined will to work together to help UNESCO face the obstacles raised by some  economically powerful countries that believe that the world and the multilateral organizations belong to them. The United  Nations and its agencies were created by States for peace and social justice in the world. UNESCO belongs to the world and  all of its peoples. That is how it was founded and that is how it should continue with its mandate. I also extend my sincere  thanks and expressions of respect to Director-General Irina Bokova for her firm decision to lead UNESCO in processes that  have enabled the settlement of historical debts, such as the inclusion of Palestine in this multilateral space of respect and  justice in the world. In the same way, the United Nations General Assembly recently condemned the unjust blockade by the  United States of America against our heroic sister nation, the Republic of Cuba. For our part, the visit of Ms Bokova and the  emotional ceremony in which the Director-General received from the hands of representatives of all indigenous peoples and  nations regionalized educational curricula in the native languages of the Bolivian State, will remain etched into the memory of  the educational communities and the Bolivian indigenous peoples. In the same way, and as Vice-Chairperson of the SDG- Education 2030 Steering Committee, I also had the opportunity to share and value her firm commitment to the challenge of the  search for improved quality and inclusion in education.
(22.3) In the field of education, UNESCO plays a decisive guiding and harmonizing role. For the Plurinational State of Bolivia,  in a context where democratic, cultural, social and educational revolution is gaining momentum, UNESCO and its commitment  to a holistic and humanistic vision for quality education throughout the world is of great importance today. I would like to take  this opportunity to congratulate UNESCO, the SDG-Education 2030 Steering Committee and its secretariat, as well as the  UNESCO Regional Bureau for Education in Latin America and the Caribbean for work done to support the implementation of  the Education 2030 Agenda through the opening of spaces for dialogue and coordination in Buenos Aires. In order to give  continuity to regional efforts and initiatives, in 2018, Bolivia will hold the Follow-up Ministerial Meeting on the Implementation of  SDG 4 of the Education 2030 Agenda and consolidate the initiative to unify the agendas of various areas of integration.
(22.4) The Plurinational State of Bolivia has assumed as a social and revolutionary principle the establishment of education  as a fundamental human right and therefore the primary responsibility of the Plurinational State, allocating more than 8% of  the country’s total investment to education. In Bolivia, by the decision of its peoples, social organizations and President Evo  Morales, a structural transformation of education is gaining momentum; and the Constitution and Education Act have  established two compulsory years of pre-school education, in addition to mandatory primary and secondary education. The  Education Act includes the universal mandate of the decolonization of education and therefore gratuity, inclusion, equity, life- long learning and right to diversity. We have established teacher training as one of the main factors of educational quality, so  in 2017 we will achieve the goal of 100% teachers with professional training. The education of indigenous peoples and nations  is State policy and the educational aim is to provide quality, free public education to all Bolivians, ensuring social justice and  priority coverage of vulnerable sectors. My country is on a parallel path to UNESCO in the area of education, proudly  concurring on many issues, and we will continue along that path together with Cuba and Venezuela for issues such as the  fight against illiteracy. In Bolivia we are working and will continue to work to achieve not only the quantitative indicators  determined by the international community, but also to achieve the happiness of our children and our peoples. We wish to  share our experience fraternally. Thank you very much.
23. The President:   Muchas gracias Excellencia. Now I would like to call the next speaker His Excellency Mr Alkassoum Maïga,  Minister of Higher Education and Scientific Research and Innovation of Burkina Faso.
24.1 M. Maïga (Burkina Faso) :  Madame la Présidente de la Conférence générale, Monsieur le Président du Conseil exécutif, Madame la  Directrice générale, Mesdames et Messieurs les chefs de délégation, permettez-moi, tout d’abord, de vous adresser les  chaleureuses félicitations de la délégation du Burkina Faso pour votre brillante élection à la présidence de la 39e session  de la Conférence générale de l’UNESCO.
24.2 À la 38e session de la Conférence générale, en 2015, le Burkina Faso faisait remarquer que l’actualité  internationale était fortement dominée par de nombreux foyers de tension ainsi que par la montée du terrorisme et de  l’extrémisme violent. Mon pays appelait alors tous les États membres, nantis et moins nantis, à plus de responsabilité,  d’engagement et de coopération, afin de soutenir l’action de l’UNESCO et de lui permettre de continuer à assumer sa  noble mission. Force est de constater que, malgré les multiples efforts consentis par les États membres, l’insécurité ne  fait que se répandre, touchant les pays que l’on croyait à l’abri du phénomène. Le Burkina Faso en a été victime, avec  des attaques récurrentes au cœur du pays et à ses frontières. Il s’agit donc là d’un phénomène mondial qui n’épargne  aucune nation et qui est aux antipodes du développement durable et des valeurs humanistes défendues par l’UNESCO.
24.3 Le Burkina Faso se réjouit de la contribution de l’Organisation à la mise en œuvre des ODD au niveau national,  spécialement au regard de leur importance dans la prévention des conflits et l’instauration d’une paix durable. Dans ce  cadre, le Burkina Faso a entamé un processus de transposition des ODD au niveau national qui a conduit, entre autres,  à la priorisation des cibles des ODD. Les résultats de la priorisation ont été pris en compte dans le processus  d’élaboration du référentiel de développement national du Burkina Faso, le Plan national de développement économique
198  et social, ou PNDES. Les actions de communication et de plaidoyer ont également permis aux différents acteurs de  mieux comprendre les enjeux liés à la transposition des ODD au niveau national.
24.4 Le Burkina Faso se félicite de ce que, conformément à la décision des États membres, le budget du 39 C/5 soit  fondé sur un cadre budgétaire intégré, englobant non seulement le budget ordinaire, mais aussi toutes les autres  ressources qui participent au financement du programme de l’UNESCO. C’est le lieu pour le Burkina Faso d’encourager,  d’une part, l’Organisation à mobiliser de nouveaux partenariats pour la mise en œuvre de ses programmes et, d’autre  part, les États membres à honorer leurs engagements financiers.
24.5 S’agissant des deux priorités de l’Organisation, le Burkina Faso note avec intérêt les actions de l’Organisation  dans la mise en œuvre de la priorité Égalité des genres et encourage la poursuite des efforts menés en ce sens,  notamment dans les pays les moins avancés. Concernant la priorité Afrique, le Burkina Faso salue l’alignement de la  Stratégie opérationnelle de l’UNESCO pour la priorité Afrique sur l’Agenda 2063 de l’Union africaine. Il importe,  cependant, que des ressources conséquentes soient allouées à la mise en œuvre effective des programmes phares de  la Stratégie opérationnelle.
24.6 Dans le domaine de l’éducation, le Burkina Faso apprécie positivement le fait que le tiers du budget soit  consacré au programme Éducation, ainsi que l’attention particulière accordée à l’enseignement supérieur, contrairement  aux années antérieures. Dans le cadre de l’amélioration de la qualité de l’enseignement supérieur, le Burkina Faso a pris  des mesures pour la connectivité et pour la création d’une université virtuelle, du Campus Faso et d’espaces numériques  ouverts. Un appui conséquent de l’UNESCO et de ses partenaires pourrait permettre d’accélérer la réalisation de ces  projets au profit des universités, écoles et centres de formation professionnelle. Au regard de la violence croissante dans  nos États et nos écoles, la délégation du Burkina Faso souhaite que soit renforcée l’éducation à la citoyenneté et aux  droits humains.
24.7 Mesdames et Messieurs, permettez-moi, au moment où j’aborde le point sur la culture, de saisir cette  opportunité pour remercier tous les États membres qui ont soutenu l’inscription du Complexe W-Arly-Pendjari sur la Liste  du patrimoine mondial de l’UNESCO. Le Burkina Faso félicite la Directrice générale pour son engagement personnel  contre les destructions et le pillage du patrimoine culturel des pays en conflit et pour la pénalisation de ces actes.  S’agissant de la culture, ma délégation souhaite que l’UNESCO appuie le pays dans plusieurs domaines, une université  ayant été créée dans la zone de Gaoua, région à vocation culturelle où nous avons donc mis en place un diplôme de  gestion du patrimoine culturel. Nous remercions également l’UNESCO pour l’appui fourni au Centre des arts vivants et, à  cet égard, nous félicitons tous les acteurs qui y ont contribué. Au regard du rôle transversal de la culture et de son  importance sociale, économique et politique, le Burkina Faso souhaite que lui soit accordée une attention particulière  dans la mise en œuvre des 17 Objectifs de développement durable.
24.8 Mesdames et Messieurs, s’agissant des sciences, mon pays se félicite de la qualité de la coopération  entretenue avec l’UNESCO.
24.9 Au moment où notre Organisation s’apprête à changer de direction, je voudrais, au nom de mon pays, rendre un  hommage mérité à Mme Irina Bokova. Ma délégation souhaite également féliciter Mme Audrey Azoulay, à qui nous  adressons toutes nos chaleureuses félicitations, et je voudrais, au nom de mon Gouvernement, lui exprimer nos vœux  de réussite et l’assurer du soutien du Burkina Faso. Avant de clore mon propos, je tiens à renouveler la reconnaissance  de mon pays à l’UNESCO pour tout l’accompagnement dont il a bénéficié. Je vous remercie.
25. The President:   Merci beaucoup. Let me now call on the next speaker of this session, His Excellency Mr Elias José Jaua Milano,  Minister of Education of the Bolivarian Republic of Venezuela.
(26.1) Mr Milano (Bolivarian Republic of Venezuela) (translated from the Spanish):    On behalf of the Bolivarian Government of Venezuela, we wish to welcome the new Director-General, Ms Audrey  Azoulay, to acknowledge the work of the outgoing Director-General, Ms Irina Bokova, and extend our greetings to the  President of the General Conference, Ms Zohour Alaoui, and to all heads of delegations. The Bolivarian Republic of  Venezuela, in its current position as chair of the Non-Aligned Movement, reiterates before this Conference its commitment to  consolidate and expand the educational goals contained in the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development. Venezuela  assumes these commitments and is fulfilling them in the midst of an illegal and aggressive policy threatening military  intervention and economic sanctions by the Government of the United States of America against us, a democratic country and  promoter of peace and integration. This prestigious Organization of the United Nations system, for which we stand in solidarity,  is also subject to similar aggression, and on behalf of the Government of President Nicolás Maduro and the Venezuelan  people, I wish to express the most absolute support for the validity, relevance and values of pluralism as the moral basis of  UNESCO. Today we come to report on the progress made in the Education 2030 Agenda. In order to ensure access to  education for all by 2030, UNESCO recommends that countries adopt policies and laws that guarantee 12 years of free  primary and secondary education. Today, in Venezuela, a social-democratic State seeking to promote the rule of law and  justice, guarantees up to 24 years of free public education, which is mandatory at all levels up to university level, as  established by our Constitution of 1999 and the Education Organization Act, which stipulate that education is a human right. In
1990, the educational budget barely reached 3.15% of GDP. This situation changed favourably with the coming to power of  the Government of President Hugo Chávez and the revolution of Bolivarian socialism. Since 1999 there has been sustained  growth and today, the educational budget has reached 7.5% of GDP alongside a 70% contraction in national income owing to  the fall in oil prices and the attacks on our economy.
(26.2) In terms of gender equality, half of the student population are women. We have strengthened bilingual multicultural  education, prioritizing the teaching of 37 languages of the indigenous communities of our country. The quality of education has  been improved through the Simón Rodríguez Training Plan aimed at the specialization of teachers and, to date, some 60,000  teachers have received free training in 16 areas of specialization at masters and doctorate level, which is equivalent to around
10% of our staff. Tenures are held by 90% of teaching staff, who enjoy full rights to unionization and collective bargaining as  well as a sustained policy of wage increases to protect their purchasing power, and other social protection mechanisms.  Quality is conceived as an integral part of education, involving access to information technologies; thus more than six million  laptops like this one that I have in my hands have been donated to students of different levels. UNESCO has acknowledged  this programme as good educational practice. Internet access is available in 90% of educational institutions and more than 20  million textbooks with content produced by Venezuelan educationalists are distributed free of charge. Free school supplies and  subsidized uniforms, coupons and social scholarships are provided to 50% of our students. In 75% of public education  institutions a school breakfast and lunch programme is on offer. By 2018, we will provide nutritional snacks in 100% of public  schools. This explains why 76% of the nearly eight million students in the population study in the public education system.  Similarly, 72% of the student population at university are in the public education system.
(26.3) With regard to study opportunities for all, various programmes, known as “educational missions” have given 1,550,000  Venezuelans the opportunity to learn to read and complete primary, secondary and university studies or technical vocational  training, free of charge. By 2017, we have taught some 1,800,000 citizens to read. These achievements are shared with the  countries of the Bolivarian Alliance for the Peoples of Our America. We remember and appreciate that in 2005, UNESCO  recognized the Bolivarian Republic of Venezuela as illiteracy-free territory. Our educational model seeks to train citizens for a  society where we recognize ourselves in our diversity and, in this respect, we also wish to thank UNESCO for the inclusion of  five intangible cultural heritage sites in the Representative List of the Intangible Cultural Heritage of Humanity, thereby
200  recognizing our indigenous Afro-Venezuelan rural culture and our religious syncretism.
(26.4) Madam Director-General, you can rely on our commitment to advancing the 2030 Agenda; by that date we will have  educated a generation for freedom, peace, equality and pluralism, for another possible world. Thank you very much.
27. The President:   Muchas gracias Excellencia. Now I am pleased to call on our next speaker, Her Excellency Ms Angelina  Motshekga, Minister of Basic Education of South Africa.
28.1 Ms Motshekga (South Africa):   Thank you. Madam President, allow me to congratulate Ms Alaoui on her election as the President of the 39th  session of the General Conference of UNESCO. She and the UNESCO collective leadership can rest assured of our  support as a delegation and proud Member State of UNESCO. To our erstwhile President of the 38th session of the  General Conference of UNESCO, Mr Stanley Mutumba Simataa, our neighbour, you definitely managed the gavel in  ensuring total observance of the rules of engagement during your tenure as President. To Ms Irina Bokova, the outgoing  Director-General, your active engagement in international efforts to advance quality education for all, gender equality, the  protection of cultural heritage as a humanitarian imperative, the security of the planet, amongst many of your  achievements as the Director-General of this august Organization, cannot go by unnoticed. Furthermore, your deliberate  efforts to recognize all regions of the world equally, especially your elevation of the African continent’s agenda and your  resoluteness against extremism, youth radicalization, and hatred among the peoples of the world, are unequalled.  President Simataa and Director-General, our Delegation wishes you well in your future endeavours.
28.2 Madam President, at the outset, let me state that South Africa reaffirms its commitment to promoting a peaceful,  equitable and just world in the twenty-first century and beyond. The spirit of multilateralism, in support of global values,  supported by the majority of the world’s countries, is manifested in the spirit and interactions of UNESCO through its  various structures, programmes and activities. The delegation that I am leading holds the view that if we are united in the  vision of UNESCO we will be able to find solutions together for the common interest of humanity.
28.3 We have noted and support the proposals made in ensuring the financial stability of UNESCO. We would like to  underline the importance of inclusivity in the process, particularly in terms of regional representativeness. Related to this,  we would like to reiterate the importance of capacity building, particularly in the field offices for the implementation of the  flagship “Operational Strategy for Priority Africa (2014-2021)” programmes, so that these offices can be helpful at the  grassroots level, where it matters the most.
28.4 Madam President, the rise of prejudices, hatred and violence, which we see manifested in some regions and  countries, and against particular sections of communities, makes UNESCO’s mission and interventions even more  urgent. As the Republic of South Africa, we note with concern the reported rise of extremism and intolerance in various  parts of the world. These are tendencies that militate against the shared global values that UNESCO espouses. South  Africa reaffirms the role of UNESCO in the industrialized and developing world, geared towards the eradication of  impediments to human rights and human dignity, and towards a peaceful, secure and safe planet. Such impediments  threaten many of our development gains as we yearn for more.
28.5 Madam President, the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) hold hope for us as they have been incorporated  into our Government’s national development plan “Vision 2030”, which has a 2030 horizon and maps out the national  development priorities of our country articulated in the 2014-2019 medium-term strategic framework of our Government,  and aligned to the African Union’s Agenda 2063 programme. Focused on sector outcomes, South Africa has adopted a  multi-layered, integrated approach to planning and delivery, incorporating an evidence-based approach, driven through  the Presidency and the Department of Planning, Monitoring and Evaluation. In addition, Statistics South Africa, a  government agency, is enjoined to periodically provide the Government with the requisite empirical evidence, data and  statistics on a variety of issues.
28.6 Madam President, I am happy to announce that most recently we released the “Sustainable Development Goals:
2017 Indicator Baseline Report”, which sheds light on the extent to which we have implemented the SDGs, and in what  areas the implementation needs to be accelerated in order to rid South Africa of the extreme triple challenges facing us,  namely poverty, unemployment, and inequality. We are of the view that this report will form a basis for high-stakes  decision-making, strategic planning, programme implementation, as well as funding and accountability imperatives in our  country. The report is accessible from our website. I must stress that the deliberate integration of the SDGs within our  country’s national development plan, the Government’s medium-term strategic framework, and the African Union’s  Agenda 2063, is especially important in a complex sector like education, which in our country straddles basic education,  vocational and technical education, as well as higher education and training. The global commitments in the SDGs help  us to deepen the knowledge, skills, values and attitudes of the people of South Africa and of other Member States  globally. In the basic education sector, for example, several evaluations have been completed in order to ensure that the  implementation of the strategic programme is aligned substantively to the anticipated outcomes envisioned in the  national development plan, the basic education sector plan, and the African Union’s continental education strategy for  Africa.
28.7 In concluding Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, let me quote the wise words of our first founding father,  President Nelson Mandela, when he said: “It is now in our hands to make a difference, through our contribution to  humanity”. South Africa cannot afford to isolate itself from the global partnerships striving for the betterment of  humankind and the planet. We will continue our active membership in UNESCO so that we can benefit from the  collective wisdom of Member States. I thank you, Madam President.
29. The President:   Thank you very much, Your Excellency, and thank you for reminding us of Nelson Mandela’s words. I would now  like to invite our next speaker, Her Excellency, Ms Gladys Elizabeth Palala Gálvez, Deputy Minister for Culture of  Guatemala.
(30.1) Ms Palala Gálvez (Guatemala) (translated from the Spanish):   Madam President of the General Conference, Mr Chairperson of the Executive Board, Madam Director-General,  ministers, secretaries of State and heads of delegation, honourable ambassadors, permanent delegates, ladies and  gentlemen, in the name of the Republic of Guatemala I congratulate UNESCO for its ongoing work in the world to attain  fundamental achievements in the promotion of education, culture, science, communication and information, bringing all  countries together around these crucial issues. We are grateful for the support we have received from different UNESCO fields  and the UNESCO Office in Guatemala, which we believe should be strengthened in all areas, particularly the social area,  taking into consideration the potential as well as common opportunities and challenges that unite us with our sister republics of  El Salvador and Honduras, where the coverage of the Office could be expanded if so provided for by UNESCO and the  aforementioned countries. We express our gratitude to Director-General Irina Bokova for the excellent work done during her
202  tenure, as she spared no effort to defend the fundamental values of the Organization. We also extend our best wishes and  congratulations to Ms Audrey Azoulay, to whom we wish every success.
(30.2) Guatemala is committed to the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), particularly SDG 4 concerning education,  taking on board the tasks of making education a shared responsibility among all stakeholders, monitoring quality, promoting  the professionalization of educators, and above all, by increasing coverage, particularly in rural areas. I would like to highlight  the efforts of the Government of Guatemala to promote multilingual education, considering that more than 20 native languages  are registered in our country. With the important support of UNESCO and its National Office in Guatemala, the national  teacher training strategy has been promoted, where the “TeachHer” programme is of particular note.  We are grateful for  UNESCO’s support for the recently released study entitled “Survey on Research and Innovation in the Republic of  Guatemala”. This tool will be very useful to develop significant capacity in science, technology and innovation. I also reiterate  Guatemala’s commitment to the universal promotion of freedom of expression and the protection of journalists. Culture is the  driver of development and the pillar of a fair, inclusive and participatory society, as an essential element in the perception we  have of ourselves as individuals, as a society, and as part of humanity.
(30.3) Guatemala has inherited from the ancient Mayans a rich culture that we are proud to preserve, study, strengthen and  promote. That is why we have implemented public policies consistent with the firm and lasting peace agreements and the  National Plan for Long-Term Cultural Development, working to ensure that Guatemala becomes known and recognized as a  multicultural, multi-ethnic and multilingual State, where different visions can coexist peacefully.
(30.4) Our nation has a vast tangible and intangible heritage. The mark of cultural syncretism that has been evident in  religious art, traditions and architecture since time immemorial continues today in Guatemalan cities. We can see how  ancestral expressions are part of our daily life owing to the vast intangible heritage we have, represented in our spirituality,  gastronomy, different native languages, music and other countless manifestations. To contribute to the strengthening of  cultural legislation, Guatemala has signed all UNESCO’s cultural conventions and invests considerable time, effort and  resources to strengthen work on archaeological and heritage issues. The protection of national heritage is an important part of  the nation’s objectives. We have enacted laws to safeguard our tangible and intangible heritage. However, we need  international cooperation to achieve these important objectives. We consider it extremely urgent to strengthen the necessary  actions to efficiently combat the trafficking of cultural goods. We urge the countries with major markets in art and cultural  property to increase their level of commitment in the fight against this scourge.
(30.5) I end my address by inviting you to support Guatemala’s candidacy for the World Heritage Committee, considering our  experience owing to our vast cultural and natural heritage and listing as one of the world’s mega-diverse countries. We have  never been members of the World Heritage Committee and we are sure that we can make important contributions in this  matter and humbly learn from the experience of other countries. I would like to express sincere thanks to the Governments of  Spain, Azerbaijan, Japan, the United States of America and Sweden, among others, who have given their support to our  country through UNESCO in various issues relating to culture, education and science. We reiterate our gratitude to the  authorities of UNESCO and to each of the Member States for their attention and interest. Thank you.
31. The President:   Muchas gracias Excelencia. I am now pleased to call His Excellency, Mr Carmel Shama Hacohen, Ambassador,  Permanent Delegate of Israel to UNESCO to address the Member States.
32.1 Mr Hacohen (Israel):   Madam President, Director-General, ambassadors, I would like to thank first the United States President, Donald  Trump, and our American allies for their courageous and just decision to leave UNESCO. This new and shiny hall is  highly deceptive in leading one to think that something good transpires between the walls of UNESCO, while this  Organization reaches a new low at every session in every respect. UNESCO seems to be focused on two main goals:  firstly, giving a bad reputation to international organizations; and secondly, wasting a lot of money and precious time, like  today and yesterday in the Education Commission, which could and should have been used to promote education and  culture, rather than obsessive politicization against Israel and the Jewish people. The sorry state of affairs is that, on the  other side of town, countries stand in line and struggle over which one will be lucky enough to join the Organisation for  Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD) first, while we, in here, are mired in fruitless struggles which  contradict our very mission, mandate and vocation. All of this is happening before our very eyes, while the world’s  leading super power, the United States of America, chooses to leave UNESCO, and by no means is it the last country  planning to do so.
32.2 Dear friends, do not be mistaken by the flashy lights and the new furniture in this room – you are all aboard the  Titanic. UNESCO is the Titanic of international organizations, which was hijacked and led by the Arab Group into  crashing into the iceberg of politicization, and which has been sinking ever since. Instead, UNESCO should have aspired  for the most noble of human values, as inscribed in its mandate, and make a positive change in the lives of billions  around the world who are still deprived of the very minimum of education, science and culture, making it a better and  more just world. Moreover, even the inauguration of this very hall was contaminated with the poison of politicization, as  the donor State handed out to all member missions a greeting letter and a medal to mark the occasion – all member  missions, aside from one: Israel.
32.3 Observe the hatred. How petty, how primitive, how pathetic. It has been made clear once more that petro-dollars  can buy much, but there is no price tag on wisdom, manners and etiquette. Your wealth might be in money, but in dignity  you are poorer than poor. Last week, this same State hosted an international judo tournament and refused to allow  Israeli athletes to don the flag of Israel on their uniform, to wave or position it anywhere, nor even to play Israel’s national  anthem, Hatikvah, even as they were winning medals. I would like to take a moment to mention the names of those  athletes who have shown great dignity and sportsmanship, and achieved so much in spite of the disgraceful conditions:  Tal Flicker, gold medal; Uri Sason, bronze medal; Gili Cohen, bronze medal; Tohar Butbul, bronze medal; Peter Palchik,  silver medal. As for the medal in question, more than a few delegations have passed us their own as a protest. My initial  instinct was to put it to good use as a doorstop. However, after giving it some more thought, I decided to donate them to  the Syrian refugees who are wandering the cold streets of Paris. These refugees include infants and children who
203  escaped the atrocities of the Syrian regime and the chemical attacks of that member of the Arab Group against its own  women, children and innocent civilians. If you only invested in them 1% of the efforts you put in here against Israel, their  lives would have been better. So the medal that we got from other delegations will be donated to these poor people.
32.4 Sadly, UNESCO has been hijacked and abused as a tool for the persecution of Israel and the Jewish people,  while concocting fake facts and fake history, meant to erase our history in Jerusalem and re-write global history. We  compete with no religion over the right for freedom of worship in Jerusalem, nor do we intend to change one iota in the  existing status quo, which benefits the three religions. Our historic right and connection to Jerusalem and the holy places  are thousands of years old and need no affirmation from UNESCO. This week, we commemorate 100 years since the  Balfour Declaration, which undoubtedly promoted the establishment of a home for the Jewish people after the Holocaust  and the plight of thousands of years of exile, yet our basic and undeniable right is rooted in the book of books, the Holy  Bible. The Palestinians and the Arab Group celebrate here from time to time anti-Israel and anti-Jewish political  resolutions, which are absolutely meaningless aside from fulfilling a sick obsession of singling Israel out and disgracing  her.
32.5 In words, I have not been successful enough in convincing you of how wrong and mistaken you are, so today I  will try to use numbers to make it clearer for you. To emphasize this special right and unique bond, I ask you now – who  knows how many times Jerusalem is mentioned in the Bible? Or where is it mentioned more – in the Bible or the Quran?  Do you have any idea? So here we go – numbers which hold the truth: in the Bible, Jerusalem is mentioned 667 times. In  the Quran, Jerusalem is mentioned – are you ready? – not 600 times, not 300 times, not even 5 times, but zero times.  There is no mention of Jerusalem in the Quran. Zero against 667 times in the Bible – what more do you need?  Jerusalem and Temple Mount were taken from the Jewish people 2,000 years ago, and were released on 7 June 1967  when the commander of the paratroopers’ brigade, Motta Gur, announced on the radio: “Temple Mount is in our hands”.  After which, the Israel Defense Forces (IDF) Chief of Staff at the time, Moshe Dayan, added: “We have reunited a  dismembered Jerusalem; we are back in the holiest of our places; we are back and never shall we part ways with them  again”. These were the voices in real time.  (The speaker plays a recording)
32.6 Do you understand it, Mr Palestinian representative, Mr Jordanian representative? Now let us view the beauty of  Israel in numbers, a State which positively contributes to humanity on every possible plane, beauty which you the Arab  Group are trying to hide and deface, with lies and obsessive politicization which brought this Organization to its knees  and destroyed it. Last September Mexico was struck by a terrible earthquake, a country 12,500 kilometres away from  Israel. In spite of the distance, Israel’s aid mission was second to arrive and lend a helping hand, after Japan, and was  the last to leave. Small and distant Israel arrived before anyone else with a delegation of 71 rescuers. Now, back to  numbers: how many people have those, who initiate here anti-Israel resolutions and their collaborators, sent to assist?  How many should have they sent, proportionally, to compare it to tiny Israel, whose entire population is less than 10  million people? The Islamic Republic of Iran, with 81 million people, should have sent 700 rescuers. Mr Iranian  Ambassador, how many did you send over to Mexico? Or were you all busy with dreams of Israel’s destruction, an  abomination constantly repeated by your dark and sinister leader? You do lead the world with one number, for the past
25 years – the number of executions. Pakistan, with 200 million inhabitants, should have sent 1,700 rescuers.  Mr Ambassador of Pakistan, do share with us how many did you send? Or were you too busy looking the other way as  more and more women are abused and raped in Karachi? How many did Bangladesh send? How many Algiers?  Morocco? Malaysia? Lebanon?
33. The President:   Dear Excellency, I would like to ask you to conclude and give the floor to other speakers. Thank you Excellency  for sharing your views with UNESCO’s Member States. I take note of it with respect, but I really call on Member States  and delegates taking the floor to respect the order set by the General Conference. Now we follow with the next speaker,  Her Excellency Ms Nadine Patricia Anguile Obame, Minister of National Education of Gabon.
34.1 Mme Anguile Obame (Gabon) :  Madame la Présidente de la Conférence générale, Monsieur le Président du Conseil exécutif, Madame la  Directrice générale, Mesdames et Messieurs les chefs de délégation, honorables délégués. Madame la Présidente, je  voudrais tout d’abord dire ici la joie qui est la mienne de prendre la parole pour la toute première fois devant cette  auguste assemblée et exprimer, au nom de S. E. M. Ali Bongo Ondimba, Président de la République gabonaise et Chef  de l’État, toute la considération et l’estime que le Gabon accorde à notre Organisation internationale, l’UNESCO.  Permettez-moi, ensuite, de vous adresser mes vives félicitations pour votre brillante élection à la présidence de cette
39e session. Votre longue expérience et votre connaissance des stratégies et programmes de l’Organisation sont un  atout majeur pour le succès de nos travaux. Aussi, sachez compter sur la délégation gabonaise, que j’ai l’honneur de  conduire à ces assises. Par la même occasion, je souhaite rendre un hommage mérité à votre prédécesseur, M. Stanley  Mutumba Simataa, pour l’excellent travail accompli au cours de son mandat. J’en profite également pour féliciter, au nom  du Gouvernement de mon pays, Mme Audrey Azoulay pour son élection de à la tête de notre Maison commune. Mes  remerciements et félicitations s’adressent enfin à Mme Irina Bokova, Directrice générale sortante, qui a su impulser des  actions concrètes dans le cadre du renforcement de la coopération entre le Gabon et l’UNESCO, notamment la  concrétisation du projet « Former ma génération : Gabon 5000 ». Ce programme forme aujourd’hui de jeunes Gabonais,  scolarisés ou non, aux métiers des nouvelles technologies de l’information et de la communication. De même, avec le  soutien de l’UNESCO, le deuxième Forum panafricain, « Jeunesse et culture de la paix », sera organisé en fin d’année à  Libreville.
34.2 Madame la Présidente, honorables délégués, depuis la Déclaration d’Incheon et l’adoption du Programme de  développement durable à l’horizon 2030, le Gabon s’est résolument engagé à assurer une éducation de qualité pour  tous et à promouvoir l’égalité des genres et des chances, conformément aux objectifs de développement durable, qui  cadrent parfaitement avec le Plan stratégique Gabon émergent. Ainsi, pour illustrer l’accompagnement de l’UNESCO  dans le domaine de l’éducation, on peut citer le processus d’élaboration d’un plan sectoriel, l’intégration et la  vulgarisation de l’approche micro-sciences, et l’accélération de la mise en œuvre de l’éducation à la santé sexuelle et  reproductive.
34.3 Dans le domaine des sciences, notre pays reste favorable à la facilitation d’un transfert des technologies par le  biais de partenariats scientifiques, établis dans le cadre des relations Nord-Sud et Sud-Sud entre les institutions de  recherche, et de partenariats public-privé. Aussi appelons-nous à un renforcement des capacités opérationnelles visant  la maîtrise des nouvelles technologies, afin de prévenir et d’atténuer les effets néfastes du changement climatique.
34.4 En sciences sociales, le Gouvernement a accordé une grande attention aux jeunes, en lançant le programme  « Un jeune = un métier », ainsi qu’aux femmes, via des activités génératrices de revenus et des mesures institutionnelles  visant à améliorer de façon significative leurs conditions de vie. Dans le cadre du Programme Gestion des  transformations sociales, le Gabon se félicite de l’organisation, avec le soutien de l’UNESCO, de la première « école  MOST » d’Afrique centrale à Libreville, en juillet 2017.
34.5 Madame la Présidente, honorables délégués, dans le domaine de la culture, mon pays remercie vivement  l’UNESCO pour son appui à la célébration de la Journée mondiale de la diversité culturelle pour le dialogue et le  développement, qui s’est tenue du 19 au 21 mai 2017 à Libreville.
34.6 En matière de communication et d’information, notre pays vient d’engager l’élaboration d’un projet de loi portant  préservation du patrimoine documentaire numérique, ainsi que d’une nouvelle loi portant révision du code de la  communication et autorisant la création de médias communautaires et en ligne ainsi que la dépénalisation des délits de  presse.
34.7 Madame la Présidente, honorables délégués, partager des objectifs communs, se réunir et œuvrer ensemble,  c’est là tout le sens des organisations internationales, de la diplomatie multilatérale et de la présence du Gabon à  l’UNESCO. Pour conclure, je ne peux que réaffirmer, du haut de cette tribune, l’engagement du Gabon à continuer  d’œuvrer aux côtés de notre Organisation, l’UNESCO. Je vous remercie.
35. The President:   Thank you Excellency for your speech. We are sorry for an incident during your statement and I thank you,  UNESCO Secretariat, for sorting it out so quickly and professionally. Now I would like to give the floor to Her Excellency  Mr Janvière Ndirahisha, Minister of National Education, of Higher Education and Scientific Research of Burundi.
36.1 Mme Ndirahisha (Burundi) :   Excellence, Madame la Présidente de la 39e session de la Conférence générale de l’UNESCO, Excellence,  Madame la Directrice générale de l’UNESCO ; Mesdames et Messieurs, en vos rangs et titres, nous voudrions d’abord  rendre grâce à Dieu Tout-Puissant, qui nous a guidés tout au long de notre voyage et qui continue d’être à nos côtés  durant notre séjour à Paris. Au nom de l’État du Burundi, de ma délégation et en mon nom propre, l’honneur m’échoit de  m’acquitter avec un réel plaisir de l’agréable devoir de vous transmettre les salutations les plus chaleureuses du peuple  burundais, de présenter mes vives et sincères félicitations à S. E. Mme Zohour Alaoui, Présidente de cette 39e session  de la Conférence générale de l’UNESCO, pour les lourdes, mais nobles tâches qui lui ont été confiées, et à S. E. Mme  Irina Bokova, pour la sagesse et la diligence avec lesquelles elle a conduit, pendant les huit dernières années, les  destinées de notre prestigieuse Organisation. Je saisis cette heureuse opportunité pour réitérer mes vives et sincères  félicitations à Mme Audrey Azoulay pour sa récente nomination à la tête de l’UNESCO.
36.2 Excellence, Madame la Présidente de la 39e session de la Conférence générale de l’UNESCO ; auguste  assemblée, le Burundi, sous la conduite sage et clairvoyante de S. E. le Président Pierre Nkurunziza, recouvre,  lentement mais sûrement, la paix et la tranquillité sociales, socles indéniables d’un développement socioéconomique  durable. Certes, le trajet aura été rude et exténuant, eu égard aux nombreux et farouches défis, mais grâce au courage,  à la ferme volonté et à la détermination du peuple burundais de prendre sa propre destinée en main et de surmonter ces  défis, des avancées positives et significatives ont été enregistrées. Ici, permettez-moi de remercier vivement et  sincèrement toute la communauté internationale et le système des Nations Unies, l’UNESCO en tête, pour leur  implication directe et/ou indirecte, ostensible et/ou discrète dans le recouvrement et la consolidation de la paix, dont le  Burundi garde une soif inextinguible.
36.3 En soutien indéfectible aux idéaux et aux efforts de l’UNESCO de recherche et de culture de la paix à travers le  monde, au-delà de sa contribution de troupes pour le maintien de la paix dans le monde, principalement en Somalie et  en République centrafricaine, le Burundi s’est joint aux autres pays de la Communauté économique des États de  l’Afrique centrale pour mettre en œuvre un vaste projet intitulé « Les jeunes et la culture de la paix en Afrique centrale ».  Ainsi, en date du 31 mars 2017, il a officiellement lancé la Campagne nationale de mobilisation des jeunes pour la  culture de la paix. Certes, c’est un projet ambitieux, mais porteur de grands espoirs, car orienté vers l’avenir de nos  nations, en général, et de la jeunesse, en particulier, dans le cadre de l’éducation à la citoyenneté mondiale et de  l’édification d’une société inclusive, pacifique et résiliente.
36.4 Excellences, Mesdames, Messieurs, l’État du Burundi a à cœur la mise en œuvre des Objectifs de  développement durable. Il accorde une attention particulière à l’ODD 4 concernant l’éducation, l’égalité des genres, les  jeunes et les enfants, mais aussi aux autres objectifs du Programme 2030. À cet effet, des réformes profondes ont été
205  entreprises au niveau de l’enseignement, avec l’introduction de l’école fondamentale et la réforme Baccalauréat-master- doctorat. Il se soucie également de l’apprentissage tout au long de la vie et de l’alphabétisation des adultes.
36.5 Excellences, Mesdames, Messieurs, je ne saurais terminer mon propos sans vous transmettre les sentiments  de reconnaissance du peuple burundais pour l’inscription, le 27 novembre 2014, à l’UNESCO, du tambour burundais sur  la Liste représentative du patrimoine culturel immatériel de l’humanité de l’UNESCO. Toute la population du Burundi  considère le tambour comme un élément fondamental de son patrimoine et de son identité. Maintenant que c’est  reconnu au niveau mondial, c’est un sentiment de fierté qui domine au Burundi.
36.6 Enfin, satisfait de la priorité accordée à l’Afrique dans la mise en œuvre des Objectifs de développement  durable, l’État du Burundi réaffirme sa volonté de rester fidèle à l’Acte constitutif de l’UNESCO et de promouvoir ses  idéaux de paix et de développement équitable et durable. Partant, il s’engage à travailler de concert et à rester solidaire  avec les autres pays membres de l’UNESCO pour la réussite effective de ces objectifs. C’est à cette fin que le Burundi a  exprimé son souhait de prendre part aux travaux du Conseil exécutif de l’UNESCO.
36.7 À tout le système des Nations Unies, à tous les États amis et partenaires, à toutes les organisations tant  gouvernementales que non gouvernementales, l’État du Burundi réitère son engagement à entretenir de bonnes  relations et une fructueuse et franche collaboration. Vive la coopération internationale ! Vive l’UNESCO ! Je vous  remercie.  Ms Alaoui takes the Chair.
37. La Présidente :   Merci, Madame la Ministre. Et maintenant je donne la parole à S. E. M. Mokhele Moletsane, Ministre de  l’éducation et de la formation du Lesotho.
38.1 Mr Moletsane (Lesotho):    Madam President of the General Conference, Madam Director-General, Excellencies, it is a great honour to  address the 39th session of the General Conference. On behalf of my country, Lesotho, I wish to congratulate you,  Madam President, on your election as its President. I also wish to honour and congratulate the first woman to have been  at the helm of UNESCO, Ms Irina Bokova, for all her accomplishments and to express our deepest appreciation for her  outstanding leadership. As she indicated in her maiden speech on the occasion of her installation as Director-General  eight years ago – and I could not agree more with her – her accession to that high office has sent a message of  confidence to all women throughout the world, that women are capable of assuming leadership positions and can lead in  the world we live in today.
38.2 Madam President, we meet once again for the 39th time in the history of our Organization in order to make an  appraisal of the world educational, scientific, cultural and communication situation. It is in the above context that I intend  to reflect on what my country has achieved or failed to achieve in UNESCO’s priority areas and fields of competence. But,  before doing so, may I commend UNESCO for its efforts in its primary fields of competence, despite the financial  recession that the Organization has been going through for a decade now. Lesotho reaffirms its commitment to the  achievement of the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development. I should also like to mention that my country is  particularly prioritizing Sustainable Development Goal (SDG) 4, as it is the pillar of all the other 16 SDGs. To this end,  our Ministry of Education and Training has already taken action in incorporating SDG 4 into the national education  strategic plan. We are also drawing attention to, and pressing for, timely and concerted action of all national stakeholders  in this issue at hand.
38.3 Madam President, you will again note with interest that the Government of Lesotho has allocated the greatest  share of its budget towards the education sector. This is because it faces challenges emanating from poor quality  education at the basic level, as well as limited basic infrastructure and equity. With the budget allocated under my  ministry in the 2017-2018 financial year, our target is the intensification of school inspections in order to provide support  to teachers and school management to discharge their duties with the utmost professionalism and dedication. Moreover,  the intention is to provide inclusiveness and equity in education. All these efforts are geared towards achieving SDG 4.  We, however, appeal for UNESCO’s continued support in order for Lesotho to achieve the said goal, and also in  addressing challenges faced by the education sector in our country.
38.4 Madam President, the High-Level Ministerial Panel Discussion on SDG 4 – Education 2030 held on 1 November
2017, in which I also took part, demonstrated how effective management and accountability in public education finance  can substantively contribute towards moving the Education 2030 agenda forward. It is therefore our commitment to  continue investing in education with accountability in order to achieve SDG 4. UNESCO’s natural science programme  remains one of our greatest focus areas. We live in a world where the acknowledgement of science, technology,  engineering and mathematics (STEM) as a driver of development cannot be overemphasized. As the world embraces  the crucial importance of digital literacy, Lesotho has also made huge strides in overcoming the lack of laboratory  infrastructure and other resources, and we are fully aware of the huge potential of digital resources to promote STEM.  We have harnessed the power of tripartite partnerships involving government, non-governmental organizations and the  private sector to pursue the advancement of digital literacy.
38.5 Madam President, access to knowledge is a human right and is necessary to achieve full human potential and  inclusive development because it opens doors to education, employment, improved health, and social and political  participation. However, the lack of published works in formats that are accessible to persons with print disabilities means  that the right to read and acquire knowledge is often out of reach for those who are visually impaired or otherwise print  disabled. It is in the light of this fact that my country will be ratifying the Marrakesh Treaty, which calls for access to  published works for visually impaired persons. Lesotho recently held a subregional seminar, in collaboration with the
206  Electronic Information for Libraries (EIFL), with the intention of making a level playing ground for the adoption of the  treaty in the country and encouraging other countries in the region to follow suit. It is therefore my fervent hope that  UNESCO will play a leading role in ensuring that Member States adopt the Marrakesh treaty for people with print  disabilities.
38.6 Madam President, Lesotho recognizes tourism as a growth sector and we are committed to improving our  tourism attractions as one of the strategies to grow this sector. We are grateful to UNESCO and some of our partners,  with special mention for the German Commission for UNESCO and the German Federal Agency for Nature Conservation,  in their continued support to assist Lesotho in establishing its first biosphere reserve. In conclusion, let me reiterate the  role and relevance of UNESCO in contributing to peace and security by promoting education, science, culture and  communication. Lesotho remains committed to the founding principles of UNESCO and shall endeavour to support this  important Organization. I thank you all for your attention.
39. La Présidente :   Merci, Excellence. Et maintenant, je donne la parole à S. E. Mme Barbera Wolfensberger, Directrice générale  de la culture et des médias au Ministère de l’éducation, de la culture et des sciences des Pays-Bas.
40.1 Ms Wolfensberger (Netherlands):   Madam President, Your Excellencies, ladies and gentlemen. Walking through the garden of this building, you  may have stopped by the artwork of Tadao Ando. It is a cylindrical structure made of concrete from Hiroshima. When you  speak, you do not hear your own voice, only silence. It is a meditation space where one can reflect quietly and listen.  Silence is important if we are to listen to others. The artwork impels us to reflect on ourselves in order to prevent a  recurrence of the atrocities of the Second World War. Tadao Ando explained the concept of the small space in these  words: “One has to know how to go beyond the differences of race, religion or nationality in order to respect the idea and  the way of being of individuals belonging to different cultures and societies. With this cramped space, I attempted to  express peaceful cohabitation on earth.” We, as UNESCO Member States, have the responsibility to use our influence to  achieve the following goals.
40.2 First, as a democratic State, the Netherlands values freedom of expression, equality, solidarity, freedom of  education and religion, which everyone has a responsibility to uphold. Freedom of expression is important for everyone,  not least of all scientists, journalists and artists. When they are free, others too are free to express themselves.  Journalists and artists increase our knowledge and understanding, offer different perspectives and help us to think  critically. UNESCO has a unique mandate to protect the freedom of journalists and freedom of expression. Less than
10% of the cases of journalists killed worldwide are solved. Reporting on these issues to UNESCO increases  transparency and should lead to less impunity.
40.3 Second, art awakens our sense of wonder at the world around us and is a source of consolation. It contributes to  creative thinking and helps us to meet the challenges of today’s world. The UNESCO 2005 Convention on the Protection  and Promotion of the Diversity of Cultural Expressions protects the right of artists around the world to express  themselves. It also helps to preserve cultural diversity worldwide so that no single culture dominates. Innovation takes  place where cultures meet, so cultural pluralism is vital.
40.4 Third, diversity offers new opportunities for citizenship and society. The idea of global citizenship means that  every citizen should take responsibility for global issues such as climate change, because in today’s world we are all  interconnected. The Netherlands is currently amending its legislation to place more emphasis on citizenship education in  schools. The goal is for all children to learn about human rights and the rights and duties enshrined in our constitution.  We want all our children to identify with the society they live in. At the same time, we recognize that ours is a pluralist  society. Education and values of citizenship and sustainability are enshrined in the Sustainable Development Goals  (SDGs). UNESCO has an important role to play in achieving these goals. Culture, which encompasses the things that we  value and identify with, is the basis for our well-being and a sustainable way of life. Openness, curiosity and a willingness  to learn are important for everyone. An open society, creativity and imagination move us forward. They also inspire  science to be innovative. Innovation is the key in UNESCO’s sponsored open access (OA) Dutch television series called  “The Mind of the Universe” in which scientists worldwide present their visions of the future.
40.5 Fourth, values are part of intangible cultural heritage. The Netherlands, including the Caribbean part of the  Kingdom, attaches great importance to preserving tangible and intangible cultural heritage. Evolving communities and  groups is key for the Convention for the Safeguarding of the Intangible Cultural Heritage. The Convention offers a  platform for dialogue and for understanding and respect for each other’s heritage. I hope that our new Minister will soon  announce our candidacy for a seat in the Intergovernmental Committee for the Safeguarding of the Intangible Cultural  Heritage in 2018. We feel for the people of the Caribbean islands hit by recent hurricanes. Devastation also has an  impact on heritage. We urge Member States to continue contributing voluntarily to the cultural conventions, especially the
2005 Convention on the Protection and Promotion of the Diversity of Cultural Expressions and the World Heritage Fund,  which are suffering severe shortfalls. Lastly, de-politicization, as well as governance and financial solvency, are key to  UNESCO’s future. We congratulate Ms Audrey Azoulay on her nomination as the Organization’s new Director-General. I  would like to end my speech with a quote from her vision: “UNESCO is an Organization for dialogue between people and  not a forum for arguments between States.” We hope that the Member States will take this message to heart. Thank you  very much.
41. The President:   Thank you, Your Excellency. I will now give the floor to His Excellency Mr Tufoua Panapa, Chief Executive  Officer for the Ministry of Education, Youth and Sport of Tuvalu.
42.1 Mr Panapa (Tuvalu):   Madam President of the General Conference, distinguished Heads of State and government delegations,  Madam Director-General of UNESCO, Excellencies, ladies and gentlemen, talofa and warm greetings from the smallest  independent island nation in the world, Tuvalu. At the outset, let me associate myself with previous speakers in  extending our special congratulations to you, Madam President, on your election as President of the 39th session of the  General Conference and to reassure you of our support during your presidency. I also wish to commend highly your  predecessor for his classic leadership and dedication to the work of the General Conference during the past years. Our  blessings also to the outgoing Madam Director-General, Irina Bokova. God be with you all.
42.2 Madam President, I would like to echo the importance and benefits that Tuvalu has received due to its  partnership with UNESCO. We applaud the theme of the Leaders’ Forum “SDGs and UNESCO’s Role in the Multilateral  System”. It underscores the fact that without UNESCO’s fields of competence, sustainable development will never be  implemented. Madam President, Sustainable Development Goal 4 on education, to “leave no one behind”, is of  paramount important to each and every Member State of UNESCO. As Tuvalu has a small and simple education system,  quality education is yet to be achieved, mainly due to economic and social reasons. The Tuvalu education sector plan  outlines in detail a number of strategic activities that aim to enhance quality education. These include student learning  and teacher pedagogy, professional development, vocational and skills development, governance, policy and planning,  data collection and research, and so forth. Tuvalu’s attention is now focused more on teachers’ competencies. This is  because no matter how good a curriculum is, no matter how good the classrooms and facilities are, quality education is  definitely undermined if teachers are not competent enough. Tuvalu also looks to vocational education as an alternative  pathway for students and youths. Furthermore, at the end of this year Tuvalu will submit its national progress report on  the Convention on the Rights of the Child, which will mark another milestone that indicates Tuvalu’s commitment to the  United Nations’ convention for children, and in particular the protection of all children in all educational institutions in  Tuvalu.
42.3 Madam President, culture is also an enabler for sustainable development, as development projects cannot be  effective and durable if they are not culturally sensitive or if they fail to take into account the aspirations of people in the  community. This important role of culture is acknowledged and recognized in the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable  Development. In many functions in Tuvalu, the Government encourages programmes that revive and strengthen cultures.
42.4 Madam President, the climate change phenomenon has forced our people to adapt and to accept the  devastating impacts of it. Tuvalu’s smallness and poor soil make us more vulnerable to the effects of climate change. In  fact, the effects of climate change have affected our food security and threaten the survival of our culture and identity.  The triangular linkage between Tuvalu’s education, culture and climate change is something that needs to be explored  further. As long as we understand fully the importance of the inter-relationship or linkage between education, culture and  climate change, surely we will be able to stand united to protect and save our small islands. Madam President, I urge  action to ensure that climate change should be a priority issue in UNESCO’s agenda because it has an impact on  education, culture and the livelihood of low-lying Member States such as Tuvalu. Nevertheless, it is our sincere hope that  Tuvalu and UNESCO continue to work hand-in-hand to improve education, and to promote and maintain culture, so that  Tuvaluans continue to live in harmony in their 26 square kilometres of land. Thank you and God bless.
43. La Présidente :   Merci, Excellence. Et maintenant, je donne la parole à S. E. Mme Kisha Gellineau, Secrétaire générale de la  Commission nationale de la Grenade pour l’UNESCO.
44.1 Ms Gellineau (Grenada):   Madam President of the 39th session of the General Conference, Mr Chairperson of the Executive Board,  Madam Director-General, Excellencies, ladies and gentlemen. Madam President, I am pleased to join my esteemed  colleagues before me in congratulating you upon your election as President of the 39th session of the General  Conference and I wish you every success during your presidency. As a Member State of the Caribbean community, I  must first of all convey Grenada’s heartfelt sympathy to all the victims of the Caribbean region and across the world who  are presently suffering the adverse effects of the recent monster hurricanes Irma and Maria. This is the first time we have  had two category 5 storms ravage the region in one season within 10 weeks of each other. This has brought into sharp  focus the issue of climate change, an issue facing not just small island developing States (SIDS), but also posing a  potential threat to humanity. It is therefore urgent and of vital importance that we strengthen our capacities to adapt and  mitigate its effects.
44.2 Small island developing States like Grenada, already disadvantaged by small economies of scale, climate  impacts and high indebtedness, seek only a level playing field that takes into account our disadvantages and recognizes  our unique vulnerabilities. Grenada supports UNESCO’s SIDS Action Plan, which outlines many of the steps to build  resilience. However, we urge UNESCO to give greater consideration to the special circumstances of SIDS and allocate  adequate resources for the implementation of the Action Plan. We believe that we must focus on “climate smart”  development, and as such, we need augmented support in policy reforms focused on climate adaptation and mitigation,  disaster risk reduction, protection of coastal and marine ecosystems and institutional and other reforms to promote  environmental sustainability and build resilience to environmental shocks. We look forward to the adoption by this  session of the General Conference of the declaration of ethical principles in relation to climate change.
44.3 Grenada recognizes the importance of working at all levels of education to promote access, quality and  innovation. We are committed to providing technical and vocational education and training (TVET) and lifelong learning  opportunities to our young people, which will increase the productivity of our workforce. As reflected in our national  development plan, the Government of Grenada believes that education is the main driver of development and in
208  achieving the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). Through education, we can stimulate productive capabilities to  drive forward and combat rising levels of unemployment among youth, while nurturing innovation, creativity and  entrepreneurship. At its 38th meeting, the Conference of Heads of Government of the Caribbean Community (CARICOM)  approved the 2030 human resources development strategy and action plan intended to inform the basis for converged  action by Member States in unlocking Caribbean human potential. At the heart of the strategy is a globally competitive,  innovative and seamlessly integrated education system to drive inclusive sustainable development in our region. The  concept of knowledge societies is founded on the notion of sharing knowledge mainly through information and  communication technologies (ICTs), which have the power to transform economies and societies. Grenada is committed  to the Information for All Programme’s (IFAP) efforts to promote the use of the Internet for peace and dialogue, to teach  young people how to think critically and live together peacefully regardless of their religious, ethnic, cultural or other  differences.
44.4 Madam President, Grenada is firmly committed to UNESCO’s ideals and missions and is actively participating in  the implementation of the Organization’s programmes and activities, notably through its active commitment in the  Intergovernmental Oceanographic Commission (IOC), International Programme for the Development of Communication  (IPDC) and the UNESCO International Institute for Higher Education in Latin America and the Caribbean (IESALC). By  presenting its candidature this year for election to the Executive Board, Grenada aspires to continue working with all  Member States of UNESCO to strengthen the Organization’s role in the attainment of peace and sustainable  development. We count on your support. I thank you.
45. La Présidente :   Merci, Madame. Et maintenant, je donne la parole à S. E. M. Flavio Méndez Altamirano, Ambassadeur et  délégué permanent du Panama auprès de l’UNESCO. Excellence.
(46.1) Mr Méndez Altamirano (Panama) (translated from the Spanish):   Madam President, honourable ministers and vice-ministers, honourable ambassadors, permanent delegates and dear  colleagues, it gives me great pleasure to address such an important audience with the aim of presenting Panama’s vision to  guarantee equitable and inclusive quality education and promote lifelong learning opportunities for all its inhabitants.  Convinced that good education is the basis for improving the lives of our citizens, in 2016, His Excellency Mr Juan Carlos  Varela, together with the Minister of Education, Ms Marcela Paredes de Vásquez, established with the support and facilitation  of the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) dialogue on the National Commitment to Education initiative, to  formulate State educational policies, inviting sectors of the educational community to participate in the process.
(46.2) Educational policies were formulated on the basis of five thematic lines of action: quality of education; educational  equity; training of educators and directors; education management; and investment in education. After several months of  dialogue, in the course of the year, the eight sectors defined, by consensus, the main goal, seven specific objectives, 37 public  policies and 241 lines of action. The consensual main goal was for Panama to have an educational system that guarantees  and promotes the effective exercise of access to quality education as a fundamental human right – based on an educational  model which provides the entire population with the option of exercising the right of free access and equal opportunity in the  national interest,  where Sustainable Development Goals in education and global advances guarantee comprehensive,  inclusive and equitable quality education system for citizens. The main titles of the seven specific objectives are: ensuring the  development of curriculum design; developing an effective and efficient investment management model; developing an  institutional decision-making system based on technical research and information; ensuring that  educational communities are  operational so that they may promote responsible active participation; designing and implementing a public policy to ensure  enrolment, retention and initial and continuing training; ensuring the training and effectiveness of the management of technical  teaching and administrative staff in schools; involving social stakeholders in an intersectoral and inter-institutional way in order  to achieve synergies and avoid duplicating efforts.
(46.3) Ladies and gentlemen, consensus was reached on the legal establishment a permanent multisectoral council for the  implementation of the National Commitment to Education initiative, whose main task is to accompany the authorities in the  process of implementing the policies and lines of action. We are pleased to announce that during the month of October 2017,  Panama organized a “TeachHer STEAM” workshop, sponsored by UNESCO thanks to the United States of America and  private institutions. This project, conducted through public-private partnerships, is aimed at reducing the education gap for  young people by encouraging them to pursue studies in the fields of science, technology, engineering, art and mathematics.  Teachers from seven Central American countries participated enthusiastically in the workshop and undertook to make  changes to educational policies.
(46.4) In the field of culture, our country has made multiple efforts to continue to comply with and enforce the conventions  adopted by UNESCO. We emphasize the permanent relevance and importance of the Convention for the Protection of the  World Cultural and Natural Heritage, and the growing interest of societies and communities in having elements inscribed on  the List of the Convention for the Safeguarding of the Intangible Cultural Heritage. Furthermore, our country has submitted  applications for consideration by the Intangible Heritage Committee and, in the domestic sphere, has been compiling a  national inventory of intangible heritage. We would also like to highlight the importance of the Convention on the Protection  and Promotion of the Diversity of Cultural Expressions. Moreover, Panama, a country that supports the search for consensus  and dialogue, has contributed to organizing meetings on the 1970 Convention on the Means of Prohibiting and Preventing the  Illicit Import, Export and Transfer of Ownership of Cultural Property and the Convention on the Protection of the Underwater  Cultural Heritage. We also note with great satisfaction that a Panamanian has been appointed to the UNESCO Memory of the  World Regional Committee for Latin America and the Caribbean (MOWLAC), to which we hope he will contribute his ideas and  knowledge for the preservation and dissemination of documental heritage.
(46.5) Ladies and gentlemen, in this spirit of work to face future challenges, Panama wishes to express its strong support for  document 39 C5 as a contribution by the Organization to respond to contemporary challenges and fulfil its mandate through  the major programmes. We underscore the effort to integrate the timetable of action for the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable  Development and the Paris Agreement on Climate Change that are inspired by the principles of sustainable development and  the values of peace and cultural diversity and human rights. Panama would like to recognize the dedicated efforts of the  outgoing Director-General, Ms Irina Bokova, at the head the Organization, to strengthen peace and healthy coexistence. We  also extend an early welcome to Ms Audrey Azoulay, wishing you every success in your new duties. Thank you very much.
47. The President:   Thank you, Your Excellency. Our next speaker is Her Excellency Madam Valentina Quiroga, Vice-Minister of  Education of Chile.
(48.1) Ms Quiroga (Chile) (translated from the Spanish):   Madam President of the General Conference, Mr Chairperson of the Executive Board, Madam Director-General, ladies  and gentlemen, heads of delegation and delegates, the contribution of multilateralism to our society is undeniable. The values  and aspirations that inspire it remain fully valid. In this connection, UNESCO has been key in the promotion of education,  science, culture and information. However, paradoxically, while on the one hand we have made progress towards peace,  stability and economic and social development, the disappearance of poverty and reduction of inequalities, on the other hand,  we have witnessed the resurgence of new forms of terrorism. Such violence, in addition to provoking fear and uncertainty and
211  attacking the values of democratic societies, has hit the most vulnerable groups and has also led to the destruction of the  common cultural heritage of humanity as well as of essential infrastructures for the educational process. For these reasons,  Chile firmly believes that the objectives established under the Constitution of UNESCO are more valid than ever.
(48.2) Madam President, we highly value the work carried out by the Organization. In recent years, Chile has brought its  educational institutions closer to these values. I would like to inform the General Conference that the President of the Republic  of Chile, Michelle Bachelet Jeria, has established the Ministry of Culture and Heritage, an institution that will contribute  decisively to the promotion of the creative economy, recognizing cultural diversity, tangible and intangible heritage, respect for  human rights, diversity and participation. We firmly believe that culture is an integral and fundamental part of a diverse country  like ours, characterized by plurality and the recognition of indigenous peoples and migrant communities.
(48.3) Madam President, we believe that it is essential to continue working in synergy with UNESCO’s cultural conventions to  deal with the destruction of invaluable assets of the world heritage and with natural disasters that, aggravated by climate  change, increasingly affect all nations, particularly Chile, a country at the mercy of natural phenomena. In this regard, we  strongly support the efforts made to integrate natural disasters into UNESCO’s concerns. Regarding our heritage sites, we  would like to highlight again in this forum the “Qhapaq Ñan” Andean Road System inscribed on the World Heritage List in
2014, as a joint initiative of Chile, Argentina, the Plurinational State of Bolivia, Colombia, Ecuador and Peru. Its inscription is a  call for the unity of the continent and for peace through culture.
(48.4) Madam President, I would also like to share with the General Conference the progress made by the Government of  President Bachelet in the educational reform that was initiated four years ago and which is her most important legacy. The  reform is consistent with the commitments made with citizens and follows very closely the 2030 Agenda, especially the aims of  Sustainable Development Goal 4, since the reform aims to guarantee the right to quality education and to support the  development of the country and its territories. While Chile has guaranteed comprehensive educational coverage for its citizens  for many years, educational quality and equity nonetheless required significant adjustments that we have implemented not  without difficulty. In these four years of government, we have adopted more than 25 laws and hundreds of measures to  achieve the most important transformations in education in Chile in the last 50 years. We have expanded coverage through  the creation of 70,000 new nursery school places and a new institutional model, and we have established new regulations to  guarantee the highest standard at this educational level. At the school level, we have transformed the teaching profession,  incorporating strong regulations into teacher training universities, raising salaries to make teaching one of the best paid  careers, and we have extended non-teaching hours and provided career development opportunities that dignify the profession.  We have also approved a law that ends profit and arbitrary selection by institutions and that grants free access to the State- funded institutions, thus eradicating the “education market”.   We have taken further steps that fill us with pride: we have approved a new system of public education that focuses on  providing comprehensive and inclusive quality education, in line with the republican model of public education, putting an end  to one of the heavy legacies left by the military dictatorship. We can also celebrate the creation of 15 new State training  centres, one in each region of the country, and the implementation of a national vocational policy for the 2016-2030 period.
(48.5) Madam President, another of the changes in the reform that also fills us with pride is free higher education, to benefit  students from low-income sectors – a change rooted in our conviction that education is a right and not a consumer good,  accompanied by an access programme to ensure the attendance of these students.
(48.6) Madam President, this Conference session marks the end of the Director-General’s term of office, so I take this  opportunity to thank Ms Irina Bokova for her management and commitment. President Bachelet has entrusted me with the  honour of thanking Ms Bokova for her constant support for the Chilean heritage sites in several of our projects. Given the  complexity and magnitude of the challenges faced by the new leadership of UNESCO, especially in view of the severe  financial crisis, we firmly believe that today more than ever we must strengthen the Organization by making the necessary  changes, but without losing the meaning for which it was created. In our view, the new executive authority of UNESCO should  contribute, through active leadership and close coordination with the Member States, to addressing the challenges we face, as  well as driving the changes that UNESCO must make to strengthen its character and the principles for which it was  established.
(48.7) Madam President, the challenges we face in achieving the goals of the 2030 Agenda, the fight against climate change,  the eradication of poverty, social inclusion and the promotion of democracy show that strengthening UNESCO’s role goes  beyond the obligations that we have as signatory States of its Constitution. Strengthening UNESCO, modernizing its  management and providing it with adequate financing today is an imperative and moral obligation, and Chile will not shirk that  commitment. Thank you very much.
49. La Présidente :  Merci, Madame la Ministre. Et maintenant, je donne la parole à S. E. M. Diekumpuna Sita Nsadisi José,  Ambassadeur et délégué permanent de l’Angola auprès de l’UNESCO.
50.1 M. Sita Nsadisi José (Angola) :    (Discours prononcé en portugais ; texte français fourni par la délégation) :   Madame la Présidente, Excellences, Mesdames et Messieurs les délégués. Mesdames et Messieurs, au nom  du Gouvernement angolais, j’ai l’honneur de vous présenter Madame la Présidente, les félicitations pour votre élection et  vous souhaite plein succès dans cette lourde et noble mission. Je profite de cette opportunité pour saluer le Président du  Conseil exécutif, dont l’organe, a joué un rôle essentiel dans la préparation des décisions à soumettre à la présente  session. Je voudrais saluer particulièrement Madame la Directrice générale, Irina Bokova, pour son leadership et son  engagement sans faille à défendre les nobles valeurs de l’UNESCO, notamment la sauvegarde de l’universalité.
50.2 Madame la Présidente, malgré la crise financière constamment accentué, qui a un impact négatif évident,  l’organisation ne peut se passer de faire face aux grands défis mondiaux, tels que : l’extrémisme violent, l’accès à  l’éducation de qualité pour tous, l’alphabétisation, la pauvreté, le changement climatique, l’accès à l’information pour tous,  la protection du patrimoine culturel. De la même manière, elle devra tenir compte résolument de ses priorités,  notamment la priorité Afrique et Égalité des genres. Il y a lieu de souligner ici la pertinence des bureaux hors Siège en  Afrique et la nécessité du renforcement de leur capacité à assister les bureaux nationaux et les commissions nationales.
212  À ce jour, la gouvernance de l’UNESCO, notamment la révision des procédures et méthodes de travail de l’organisation,  est un autre grand défi, pour lequel des contributions positives ont été émises sous la coordination habile de M. Stanley  Mutumba Simataa, Président de la 38e session de la Conférence générale. Nous croyons fermement que l’adoption de  ces contributions servira grandement à améliorer la performance de notre organisation, notamment dans la mise en  œuvre du programme de développement durable à l’horizon 2030 et la concrétisation des Accords de Paris sur le Climat.
50.3 Excellences, Mesdames et Messieurs, dans le cadre du processus de consolidation de notre système  démocratique, ont eu lieu les élections générales en août dernier, reconnues par la communauté internationale comme  justes, pacifiques et transparentes. Le peuple angolais a élu un nouveau président de la République, en substitution de  l’Ingénieur José Eduardo dos Santos, qui, volontairement, a décidé de ne pas se représenter, malgré la possibilité qu’il  en avait constitutionnellement. Le président élu, S. E. M. João Manuel Gonçalves Lourenço, s’est exprimé récemment en  disant qu’il avait hérité du Président José Eduardo dos Santos un pays indépendant, libre, uni, en paix et avec un peuple  réconcilié avec soi-même ; ce qui représente un capital important qui aidera à affronter de façon appropriée les défis  présents et futurs.
50.4 En Angola, l’éducation est un droit constitutionnel qui doit être garanti pour tous les angolais. Durant l’année  scolaire en cours, 6,1 millions d’élèves ont été inscrits dans l’enseignement primaire et 2,5 millions au secondaire. Entre
2014-2016, plus de 78 000 jeunes ont été formés dans 27 domaines stratégiques d’enseignement technico- professionnel. En ce qui concerne l’enseignement supérieur, le nombre d’étudiants universitaires est passé de 14 000 en
2002 à 283 000 en 2016. Le réseau universitaire s’étend sur les 18 provinces du pays, avec 64 institutions  d’enseignement supérieur, desquelles 24 sont publiques. Nous aimerions manifester notre soutien à l’initiative de  l’organisation d’une rencontre panafricaine de haut niveau, prévue pour mars 2018 par l’UNESCO, l’Union africaine et le  Gouvernement du Kenya, dans le cadre de la mise en œuvre de l’Objectif 4 – Éducation 2030.
50.5 La mobilisation de la science, la technologie et l’innovation au service du développement socioéconomique est  aussi un objectif prioritaire en Afrique. Aussi, nous nous réjouissons de notre partenariat avec l’UNESCO concernant la  conception du programme de formation doctorale des cadres dans les domaines des sciences, ingénieries, technologies  et innovation, dont l’exécution bénéficiera de l’assistance technique de l’Académie mondiale des sciences. Dans le  même ordre d’idées, nous avons le plaisir d’annoncer l’entrée en orbite au mois de décembre prochain du satellite  géostationnaire de communication Angosat « 1 », entièrement financé par l’État angolais. Son exploitation, associée à la  ramification du réseau de fibre optique terrestre et sous-marine, aura des répercussions remarquables dans les  domaines de la science, l’éducation, l’information et la communication, autant que sur les différentes activités  économiques.
50.6 Madame la Présidente, la culture constitue une des bases fondamentales sur lesquelles se construit une nation.  L’Angola y croit fermement et tient à préserver et promouvoir les valeurs les plus remarquables léguées par nos  traditions ancestrales ; lesquelles contribuent, sans aucun doute, à la construction d’un pays réconcilié et engagé dans  l’effort pour le respect des valeurs universellement admises, parmi lesquelles la promotion de la culture de la paix. La  récente classification des vestiges de Mbanza Kongo, capitale de l’ancien Royaume du Kongo sur la Liste du patrimoine  mondial, dignifie notre pays, notre histoire, notre peuple, ainsi que l’histoire universelle. Cette inscription a permis au  Gouvernement angolais de souscrire à un engagement véritable pour préserver ce site historique comme lieu de  mémoire pour toutes les communautés qui font partie de l’ancien Royaume, notamment celles de la République  démocratique du Congo, le Congo-Brazzaville, le Gabon, sans oublier la diaspora Kongo, notamment dans les  Amériques et aux Caraïbes, et conséquemment pour promouvoir le tourisme culturel et le développement. Dans le cadre  de la culture de la paix, nous continuerons à travailler avec l’UNESCO et l’Union africaine à la matérialisation de nos  engagements pour la mise en œuvre des recommandations consignées dans le Plan d’action de Luanda, adopté en  mars 2013. Pour terminer il nous plaît d’annoncer l’élection de la République d’Angola au Conseil des Droits de l’homme  des Nations Unies, devant y prendre activement part à partir de janvier 2018 pour une période de trois ans. Je vous  remercie pour votre attention.
51. La Présidente :   Merci, Excellence. Et maintenant, je donne la parole à S. E. M. Yong Il Kim, Ambassadeur et délégué  permanent de la République populaire démocratique de Corée auprès de l’UNESCO.
52.1 M. Kim (République populaire démocratique de Corée) :   Madame la Présidente de la Conférence générale, Monsieur le Président du Conseil exécutif, Madame la  Directrice générale de l’UNESCO, Mesdames et Messieurs les délégués, je voudrais tout d’abord féliciter Mme Zohour  Alaoui pour son élection à la présidence de cette 39e session de la Conférence générale, et exprimer l’espoir que cette  session placée sous son éminente présidence soit une réussite. Je saisis cette opportunité pour exprimer toute notre  reconnaissance à Mme Irina Bokova pour les efforts remarquables qu’elle a déployés ces dernières années. Je voudrais  également féliciter Mme Audrey Azoulay pour sa nomination au poste de Directeur général et lui souhaiter plein succès  dans son mandat.   (L’orateur poursuit en coréen, texte anglais fourni par la délégation)
52.2 Madam President, for the last biennium UNESCO has been actively leading the implementation of the Education
2030 Framework for Action for attainment of the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) and has made a lot of progress  in its fields of competence such as biosphere reserves and the protection of cultural properties. It is the noble mission of  UNESCO to build peace in the minds of men and women, thus contributing to the peace, security and prosperity of the  world. SDGs can be achieved successfully only when all countries and nations are engaged collectively. It therefore  requires international cooperation and collaboration to be further strengthened.
52.3 Madam President, the efforts of UNESCO and the international community to build the peaceful and civilized  world aspired to by humankind are faced with serious challenges. Infringement of sovereignty and interference in each  other’s internal affairs are taking place openly in various places of the world, and the endless confrontation among  States, powers and civilizations continues. The military actions under the cloak of “democracy” and the “war on terror”, as  well as the conflicts between religions and civilizations, result in the worst refugee crisis and destruction of valuable  cultural properties known to humankind. The recent announcement of the United States of America to withdraw from  UNESCO soon after its withdrawal from the Paris Agreement on Climate Change puts another obstacle in the path to  attaining the SDGs.
52.4 The hostile policies of the United States of America and its military threats of “total destruction” of the  Democratic People’s Republic of Korea counter the Charter of the United Nations and the mission and purpose of  UNESCO, and hinder the efforts of the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea to build civilized power, and constitute the  main factors that threaten peace and security on the Korean peninsula.
52.5 Madam President, education is the sector that should be prioritized before anything else in achieving global  peace, common prosperity and sustainable development of humankind. For the successful achievement of SDG 4 on  education, it is necessary for UNESCO to promote the political and legal system and enhance international cooperation  and relevant financial supports so as to ensure universal 12-year education, education for all and lifelong learning. At the  same time, the role of UNESCO should be focused on improving the quality of education, while also strengthening  technical cooperation. In the field of science, universal access to advanced science and technology should be provided  and exchanges properly ensured on the basis of equality and mutual benefits, promoting north-south and south-south  cooperation. International cooperation for the prevention of trafficking in cultural property should be enhanced, fostering  friendly relations among nations and regions through intercultural and civilizational dialogue and promoting the building of  knowledge societies by means of information and communication technologies (ICTs).
52.6 Madam President, a vigorous campaign is currently under way in the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea to  implement the five-year strategy for national economic development from 2016 to 2020 under the wise leadership of the  respected supreme leader, Kim Jong Un, Chairman of the State Affairs Commission of the Democratic People’s Republic  of Korea. In accordance with the constant policy of the Government to attach great importance to education and science,   a universal 12-year free and compulsory education system has been enforced since 2014. Our higher education and  pedagogical education systems have been improved and the national distance education and science-technology  networks have been greatly enhanced, thereby meeting the requirements of the new century and improving the overall  quality of national education. The Government of the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea has set the target of  building its science-technology capability to the highest cutting-edge global standards, and to develop all sectors through  the pivotal role of science and technology. Research and development is actively carried out to attain cutting-edge  technologies and contribute to the power of the country and improvement of its people’s livelihoods.
52.7 Madam President, the struggle of the Korean people is taking place amidst sanctions from the United States of  America and its supporting forces. The United States of America’s threats and sanctions to stifle our sovereignty, our  right to exist and our right to development engender widespread negative effects, not just to education, science and  ICTs, but also to sports and the everyday life of our people. Such acts against humanity and civilization should be ended  at once. Despite the current difficult situation and conditions, the Korean people will continue their energetic struggle to  build a civilized nation and to achieve the SDGs with the great driving force of self-reliance and self-development and  with the strength of science and technology. The Democratic People’s Republic of Korea will, in the future, further  strengthen and develop international cooperation and solidarity under its foreign policy ideals of independence, peace  and friendship, and actively join UNESCO and other Member States in their efforts to achieve the Sustainable  Development Goals. Thank you.
53. La Présidente :   Merci, Excellence. Et maintenant, je donne la parole à Mme Isa Morais Rodrigues, Chargée d’affaires de Cabo  Verde auprès de l’UNESCO.
54.1 Ms Rodrigues (Cabo Verde) (interpretation from Portuguese):   Madam President of the General Conference, Madam Director-General of UNESCO, distinguished ministers,  ambassadors and permanent delegates, Excellencies, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the Government of the  Republic of Cabo Verde I have the honour of addressing this august assembly to reaffirm the commitment of my country  to the founding values and ideals of UNESCO. Madam President, may I begin by conveying my most heartfelt  congratulations to you on your election to the presidency of this UNESCO General Conference. We wish you every  success in discharging your duties. You may count on our wholehearted support, since we recognize your skills and  qualities which should allow us to successfully conclude the deliberations of this General Conference. We must also  congratulate your predecessor, Mr Stanley Mutumba Simataa, for the wisdom of his leadership over the last two years. A  very well-deserved tribute is also paid to Ms Irina Bokova for all her devotion and skill in guiding the destiny of UNESCO  over a period of eight years. We wish you every success Ms Bokova. Likewise, we wish the incoming Director-General,  Audrey Azoulay, every success after her nomination to the post by the Executive Board, and we are driven by one  certainty – her acknowledged experience will be essential for continuing implementation of UNESCO’s goals as well as  those set in the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development. Undoubtedly she will help UNESCO in its quest for and  constant promotion of peace in the world.
54.2 The General Conference  is taking up issues which are at the heart of UNESCO’s mandate. We will have to take  some important decisions – for example, quality education for all and protection of cultural and natural heritage.  Troubling phenomena such as the escalation of manifestations of intolerance, very often in conjunction with migratory  movements, crimes against global cultural heritage, conflicts which persist still in many regions of the globe, the effects
214  of climate change, and many other global phenomena are having an adverse impact on economic and social  development in general and call for greater vigilance, greater intervention and promotion of dialogue, respect and  cooperation with a view to building a better world for future generations. With this in mind, we are duty bound each and  every one of us to work hand-in-hand with UNESCO so that education, science and culture may remain the foundation  stones of development and the enrichment of all civilization. While also making our contribution to the successful  attainment of the major international agendas, particularly in the light of the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs),  Cabo Verde, within the limits of its possibilities, joins the international community in ensuring that UNESCO may equip  itself with that means equal to its ambitions.
54.3 For the Government of Cabo Verde, education for all and quality education are a priority. Therefore, we have  approved a strategic plan for sustainable development for 2017-2021 which lays down the major thrusts of the  development of education in our country. Among the main priorities of this strategic planning are the strengthening of  language teaching and better management of the education system. At the same time, we have given a preeminent role  to science in the development of our country and have been working to formulate a national research agenda, a  mechanism geared to steering the funding of scientific research.
54.4 Madam President, ever since the classification of Cidade Velha, Historic Centre of Ribeira Grande, on the World  Heritage List, which is its only national cultural property inscribed on the World Heritage List of UNESCO, Cabo Verde  has spared no effort to manage and consolidate this important heritage from history. As regards the intangible cultural  heritage, there is a national inventory programme under way which has identified to date two potential proposals: the  Tabanca and Morna musical traditions. Of these, the latter is in the throes of being prepared for submission to the  Representative List of the Intangible Cultural Heritage of Humanity in March 2018.
54.5 Before concluding, I must congratulate UNESCO on the priority it has paid to Africa and to congratulate it also  on its commitment to strengthening actions in support of our continent with special emphasis on the specific needs of  small island developing States, youth and women. Cabo Verde welcomes the colossal work done by this Organization  and acknowledges that the prime objectives set down in the Medium-Term Strategy for 2014-2021 have been clearly  identified and will be conducive to supporting our countries in fulfilling the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development.  Thank you.
55. La Présidente :   Et maintenant, je donne la parole à S. E. M. Michel Spinellis, Ambassadeur et délégué permanent de la Grèce  auprès de l’UNESCO.
56.1 Mr Spinellis (Greece):   Madam President of the General Conference, Excellencies, ladies and gentlemen, allow me to wholeheartedly  congratulate you and the other members of the Executive Board on your election. We would be remiss if we did not  express sincere appreciation to the Director-General Ms Bokova for her long and important contribution. We also warmly  congratulate Ms Audrey Azoulay on her nomination. We believe that the Organization, with a new Director-General at its  helm, will carry on its course intended for constructive action.
56.2 Madam President, Greece is very actively involved in the fight against both the deliberate destruction of cultural  heritage in conflict areas and its consequences, namely the illicit trade of looted cultural property. Greece has already  incorporated United Nations Security Council resolution 2199 (2015) into its national legislation, and in this respect is  currently at the stage of adopting specific implementing regulations. Brutal attacks against cultural heritage target not  only historic monuments and sites of the greatest importance to humanity, but also the very substance of human nature,  which evolves through diversity. Therefore, respect for cultural diversity, namely respect for every possible form of past,  present and future human art and expression, including religious monuments and sites, pave the way to reconciliation,  coexistence, social cohesion and thus peace.
56.3 Over the past two years, Greece chaired the Committee for the Protection of Cultural Property in the Event   of Armed Conflict. Within this context, and following the adoption of the United Nations Security Council’s   resolution 2199 (2015), the Committee, acting in cooperation with the Director-General, issued six consecutive  statements condemning in the strongest possible terms the deliberate destruction of cultural heritage in the Syrian Arab  Republic and Iraq as blatant violations of international law, and urging the international community to unite and intensify  its efforts to confront this unprecedented situation caused by terrorist groups such as ISIS.
56.4 Greece is standing for re-election to the Committee in order to continue working on these crucial matters.  Furthermore, Greece led the foundations of the newly-established mechanism for the monitoring of the 1970 UNESCO  Convention on the Means of Prohibiting and Preventing the Illicit Import, Export and Transfer of Ownership of Cultural  Property, the Subsidiary Committee, with the aim, among others, to coordinate international cooperation for the  protection of cultural property, particularly in cases of armed conflict, and to combat trafficking of cultural treasures,  mainly through successive meetings of the chairpersons of the committees of the six UNESCO cultural conventions.
56.5 Madam President, it is well known that Greece attaches major importance to the issue of return and restitution of  cultural property to its countries of origin. In this context, Greece attaches great importance to and highly appreciates the  work and achievements of the UNESCO Intergovernmental Committee for Promoting the Return of Cultural Property to  its Countries of Origin or its Restitution in Case of Illicit Appropriation (ICPRCP). We reiterate our disappointment at the  refusal of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland to accept UNESCO’s invitation to initiate a mediation  process on the issue of the Parthenon Sculptures, despite the recommendation of the ICPRCP. Despite repetition of  well-known British arguments concerning this long-standing and just demand for rehabilitating a unique world heritage  monument, which remains a mutilated wonder of the world, we call on the British Government to reconsider its stand
215  bearing in mind that the unity of the Parthenon is dictated not only by legal considerations, but by international ethical  principles as well.
56.6 We also reiterate the commitment of all States to fully respect world heritage monuments, Christian or non- Christian alike, on their territories. Any attempt to alter the use of Hagia Sophia would be totally incompatible with its  character as a museum. Madam President, Excellencies, Greece counts on your support for our candidatures to the  International Coordinating Council of the Programme on Man and the Biosphere (MAB), as well as to the  Intergovernmental Committee for the Safeguarding of the Intangible Cultural Heritage, in the elections to be held in June
57. The President:   Thank you, Ambassador. Now I will give the floor to our last speaker, Her Excellency Ms Hanna Simon,  Ambassador and Permanent Delegate of Eritrea to UNESCO.
58.1 Ms Simon (Eritrea):   Excellencies, Madam President of the General Conference, Mr Chairperson of the Executive Board, Madam  Director-General of UNESCO, distinguished representatives, ladies and gentlemen, first and foremost, allow me to  express Eritrea’s appreciation for UNESCO’s assistance and cooperation in various educational, cultural and scientific  projects. At the same time, I would like to congratulate Ms Irina Bokova for her commitment to promoting UNESCO’s  noble principles and values during her two terms as the Organization’s Director-General. I wish her success in her future  endeavours.  (The speaker continues in French)
58.2 Je saisis cette occasion pour féliciter également Mme Audrey Azoulay pour son élection au poste de Directeur  général de l’UNESCO, tout en lui souhaitant un mandat plein de succès face aux défis qui l’attendent.   (L’oratrice poursuit en anglais)
58.3 For Eritrea, 2017 has been a landmark year with the inscription of “Asmara: A Modernist City of Africa” on the  World Heritage List of UNESCO. This inscription of the first-ever Eritrean site has been realized thanks to unwavering  support from UNESCO and its advisory bodies. Eritrea continues its efforts towards ensuring the registration of other  Eritrean sites such as Qohaito Cultural Landscape and Adulis. Heritage is a priority for Eritrea, with 2016 and 2017  marking the biennium of cultural workshops, media and community-based training to raise awareness of safeguarding  practices for intangible cultural heritage, and the preparation of oral tradition books in various Eritrean ethnic languages.  Furthermore, Eritrea attended regional and international ministerial meetings in Mauritius, Turkey and China on  strengthening synergies for cultural heritage protection in Eastern Africa and the adjacent Indian Ocean island States.  Collection, scanning and preservation of archival documentation such as Islamic manuscripts and Italian documents are  receiving due attention as well.
58.4 Madam President, Eritrea’s national education policy stipulates compulsory basic education, the use of mother  tongue languages for instruction at elementary level, and the expansion of secondary and tertiary education opportunities.  Education, in accordance with the education for all (EFA) principle, is universal and free at all levels, and includes a  successful scheme for nomad children. The Government has incorporated UNESCO’s educational plans in defining its  strategies in adult education, technical and vocational education and training (TVET), higher education and literacy. Its  participation at annual policy forums in Mexico, Cambodia and Togo were of significant value. The 2016 youth and  entrepreneurship forum in East Africa, and several other related meetings such as “Enhancing equitable access to  quality basic education for social justice” were also important. Furthermore, a workshop on the development of the  Sustainable Development Goal (SDG) roadmap, with special focus on policy management and planning, and training on  SDG indicators, were held in Eritrea. These activities are in line with the educational goals of the 2030 Agenda for  Sustainable Development.
58.5 With regards to science, Eritrea’s strategic objectives aim to strengthen technology and innovation, enhance  capacity building for research and education and promote international cooperation for the protection and sustainable  management of natural sciences. Accordingly, Eritrea held awareness-raising workshops on the protection of the  environment and attended the fourth session of the Intergovernmental Oceanographic Commission’s (IOC) sub- Commission for Africa and the adjacent island States held in Alexandria this year. Eritrea gives high significance to  UNESCO’s public-private partnership (PPP), despite unexpected difficulties during the 2016-2017 biennium. We are  deeply engaged to remedying lost opportunities by working towards concrete results during the coming biennium. Before  closing, I would like to call for strong solidarity among all UNESCO Member States to confront the extremely challenging  tasks ahead of us. I am fully confident that the 39th session of the General Conference of UNESCO will conclude its  work successfully. Thank you for your attention.
59. La Présidente :  Excellences, Mesdames et Messieurs, ceci nous amène à la conclusion de la séance de cet après-midi. La  plénière se réunira de nouveau demain matin à 10 heures précises. Je vous souhaite une excellente soirée. La séance  est close.  The meeting rose at 6.25 p.m.  La séance est levée à 18 h 25  Se levanta la sesión a las 18.25  Заседание закрывается в 18.25  الظهر بعد ٥٢,٦ الساعة يف اجللسة رفعت   会议于 18 时 25 分结束