322  Report of the Natural Sciences Commission (SC) (39 C/72)  Rapport de la Commission Sciences exactes et naturelles (SC) (39 C/72)  Informe de la Comisión de Ciencias Exactas y Naturales (SC) (39 C/72)  Доклад Комиссии по естественным наукам (SC) (39 C/72)   )٧٢م/٣٩( )SC(تقرير لجنة العلوم الطبيعية  自然科学委员会（SC）的报告（39 C/72）
1. La Présidente :   Excellences, Mesdames et Messieurs, je déclare ouverte la dix-huitième séance plénière de la Conférence  générale, qui sera consacrée à l’examen et à l’adoption des rapports des commissions SC, SHS et APX, puis à l’examen  et l’adoption du rapport du Comité juridique. Mais avant de commencer nos travaux ce matin, je souhaiterais présenter,  au nom de la Conférence générale, mes sincères condoléances aux autorités et aux peuples irakien et iranien pour les  pertes subies en raison du séisme. Compte tenu de notre ordre du jour chargé, je vais donner la parole sans plus tarder  à S. E. M. El Tayeb, Président de la Commission SC (Sciences exactes et naturelles), afin qu’il nous présente le rapport  contenu dans le document 39 C/72. Monsieur El Tayeb, vous avez la parole.
2.1 Mr El Tayeb (Sudan) (Chairperson of the SC Commission):    Madam President of the General Conference, Mr Chairperson of the Executive Board, Madam Director-General,  Excellencies, distinguished delegates, ladies and gentlemen, good morning. As Chairperson of the Natural Sciences  Commission, Major Programme II Natural Sciences and the Intergovernmental Oceanographic Commission (IOC), it is  my great pleasure to present the conclusions of the work of the Science Commission to this honourable assembly. Over  the next few minutes, I shall be summarizing the discussion in the Science Commission by issue, rather than  chronologically. In the interests of brevity, I shall not be covering in detail the decisions taken by the Commission on the  various agenda items, as you will find these in the written report, document 39 C/72, which is submitted to you for  adoption.
2.2 The Commission examined seven agenda items in four sessions. For the first time, there was a separate  session devoted to IOC, consistent with the status of IOC within the Organization. Several delegates noted with  satisfaction the alignment of UNESCO’s Draft Programme and Budget for 2018-2021 (39 C/5) with the 2030 Agenda for  Sustainable Development. Many delegates applauded the approach of combining assessed and voluntary contributions  in the C/5 document to produce an integrated budget. The Commission recommended that the General Conference  adopt its relevant resolutions. Delegates appreciated the integrated, holistic approach taken to programme  implementation in the C/5 document. Speakers welcomed the inclusion of a specific section on intersectoral cooperation,  with a focus on climate change, disaster risk reduction, small island developing States (SIDS) and indigenous people.
2.3 In the course of the debate, many delegates stressed the valuable contribution that UNESCO designated sites  were making to sustainable development in their countries. Several speakers suggested that biosphere reserves and  UNESCO global geoparks should take advantage of their popularity with the general public to operate as educational  laboratories and promote sustainable tourism. Others underscored the potential of biosphere reserves and UNESCO  global geoparks for fostering North–South cooperation and regional cooperation. The Commission endorsed the draft  resolution submitted by Ghana and Kenya for the creation of a sustainable funding modality for African biosphere  reserves – AfriBioFund – through the mobilization of $10 million in extrabudgetary resources.
2.4 Many delegates expressed strong support for UNESCO’s intergovernmental and international scientific  programmes and IOC, and urged these programmes to develop closer cooperation with UNESCO’s institutional partners,  including category 2 centres, UNESCO Chairs, National Commissions for UNESCO, other United Nations agencies and  jointly sponsored initiatives such as the Intergovernmental Platform on Biodiversity and Ecosystem Services.
2.5 Some delegates observed that UNESCO was co-custodian of the indicator on transboundary cooperation in  freshwater within SDG target 6.5. They expressed the view that UNESCO had the potential to contribute to other SDG 6  indicators. It was recalled that the need to raise the visibility of UNESCO’s contribution to SDG 6 had inspired Member  States to create a separate main line of action for water in the Draft Programme and Budget for 2018-2021. The  Commission endorsed the resolution for an International Decade of Ocean Sciences for Sustainable Development 2021-
2030. Several delegates recalled that IOC’s programme in ocean monitoring and observations were of critical importance  to addressing climate change and expressed satisfaction at the increasing recognition of the role the oceans played in  the international development agenda.
2.6 A number of speakers praised IOC’s capacity-building strategy. Others congratulated IOC on the first Global  Ocean Science Report. The report spoke directly to the indicator on building capacity in ocean sciences under SDG 14  target (a), for which IOC had been designated custodian agency. Many delegates also underlined UNESCO’s role in  disaster risk reduction, including through tsunami early warning systems under IOC. Several observed that the growing  intensity and frequency of meteorological disasters showed the importance for preparedness and early warning systems.
2.7 Ladies and gentlemen, much of the discussion during the Commission focused on item 4.9, the “UNESCO  Strategy for Action on Climate Change (2018-2021)”. There was a strong convergence of views on the timeliness and  scope of the strategy. Delegates welcomed the fact that it engaged all of UNESCO’s programmes in a holistic, integrated  manner. A number of delegates made the point that, even though countries had common but differentiated  responsibilities, it was the responsibility of all countries to protect the planet. Others observed that many countries were  not yet dealing with the consequences of climate change. They stressed the need to change mind-sets and endorsed the  slogan “changing minds, not the climate”. Among the strategies evoked by delegates to combat climate change in their
323  countries, I could cite the establishment of national bodies with a specific mandate to tackle climate change, including at  ministerial level, the adoption of national strategies, the establishment of “green” cities and the creation of new biosphere  reserves and other protected areas. Three delegates voiced concerns with regard to the proposed UNESCO strategy.  One concern was that the strategy might call for UNESCO to work in areas already covered by others in the United  Nations system. Another concern was the risk of overlap with the United Nations’ negotiating process. These issues  were addressed in the draft resolution endorsed by the Commission.
2.8 Several delegates expressed strong support for the maintenance of capacity building and cooperation in basic  sciences at UNESCO. Some stressed the importance of basic science for reaching the SDGs, including SDG 4 on  education. Others observed that basic and applied science and engineering were all key elements of the Priority Africa  flagships. Four delegates voiced explicit support for the International Basic Science Programme (IBSP). These  discussions led the Commission to endorse the addition of a reference to basic sciences in the title of main line of action  (MLA) 1 of Major Programme II.
2.9 The Commission then endorsed the proposals for the proclamation of an International Day of Light on 16 May,  item 4.6, and an International Year of the Periodic Table of Chemical Elements in 2019, item 4.19. Many delegates felt  that such celebrations would be a golden opportunity to stimulate research and education in their countries.
2.10 The Commission endorsed a total of seven new category 2 centres. Two of them were in the basic sciences,  namely the African Institute for Mathematical Sciences in Ghana and the Health-related Basic Sciences Centre in the  Islamic Republic of Iran. Two others were based in Mexico and the Russian Federation and concerned water security  and mining-engineering education respectively. The fifth centre was the Junior Academy of Sciences in Ukraine and the  sixth was the Institute for Water Education in the Netherlands, which used to be a category 1 institute. The last of the  new category 2 centres was the International Training Centre on Operational Oceanography based at the Indian National  Centre for Ocean Information Services.
2.11 Many delegates referred to the need for more inclusive policies. Several delegates argued that open access to  knowledge resources must be part of the drive to reach the SDGs and called for a greater focus on equal opportunity,  open innovation and open science, including greater data exchange between countries. The need for greater inclusion  was also a common thread of the interventions of delegates on issues related to youth, gender equality and indigenous  knowledge.
2.12 Several delegates stressed the role that progress towards gender equality would play in leveraging science to  meet the SDGs. Other speakers applauded the Secretariat for assisting in devising gender-inclusive science, technology  and innovation policies and gender-disaggregated data. Two representatives of the Youth Forum on “Rethinking Youth  Engagement with UNESCO” presented the conclusions of the Forum that were of relevance to science. The most  ambitious of these were the recommendation and proposal to co-develop a youth citizen science toolbox with UNESCO.  This online platform would be a space where young scientists could access data collected by citizens to support their  own research and entrepreneurship. A number of Member States welcomed the emphasis on citizen sciences. Others  observed that youth were “agents of change” who would be instrumental in reaching the SDGs. Many speakers  described their own initiatives to canvas the opinions of youth. Several delegates urged UNESCO to involve youth more  broadly in its work, not only as beneficiaries of UNESCO’s programmes but also as partners in programme design and  delivery. It was suggested that UNESCO reach out to youth through its existing structures, such as UNESCO Clubs,  associated schools and designated sites. The organization of the Man and the Biosphere (MAB) Programme youth forum  in Italy in 2017 was considered an example of good practice.
2.13 I am now coming to the end of my report. At this point, allow me to thank the members of the bureau of the  Science Commission for their valuable support: Vice-Chairpersons Mr Chowdhury Mufad Ahmed (Bangladesh), Mr  Tjama Tjivikua (Namibia), Ms Elizabeth Silva (Portugal), Ms Alejandra de Bellis (Uruguay), and our Rapporteur Mr  Slawomir Ratajski (Poland). I also wish to pay tribute to the team of the Science Commission for their dynamic  assistance behind the scenes.  I would also like to give special thanks and gratitude to the representatives of the  Director-General, Ms Flavia Schlegel, Assistant Director-General for Natural Sciences and Mr Vladimir Ryabinin,  Assistant Director-General and Executive Secretary of IOC, for informing the debate and responding to the queries from  the Member States.
2.14 In conclusion, Madam President, distinguished delegates, it has been a great honour for me to serve as  Chairperson of the SC Commission, Major Programme II Natural Sciences and the Intergovernmental Oceanographic  Commission (IOC). I look forward to interacting and accompanying the work of the Science Commission over the next  two years, to ensure that the Commission makes relevant and timely inputs into the Natural Sciences Sector and IOC  between now and the 40th session of the General Conference in 2019. Madam President, distinguished delegates,  ladies and gentlemen, I thank you for your attention.
3. La Présidente :   Merci, Excellence, pour votre présentation. Je tiens à vous féliciter pour ce rapport, qui a été si riche quant au  fond. Y a-t-il des commentaires ou des suggestions sur ce rapport ? Puis-je considérer que la Conférence générale  prend note du rapport de la Commission SC et adopte les projets de résolution proposés dans le document 39 C/72,  sous réserve des décisions que la Conférence pourrait prendre lors de l’adoption de la résolution portant ouverture de  crédits pour 2018-2019 ? Je vous remercie. Il en est ainsi décidé.
4. La Présidente :   Excellences, je me tourne maintenant vers Mme Geingos-Onuegbu, Vice Présidente de la Commission SHS  (Sciences sociales et humaines), afin qu’elle nous présente le rapport contenu dans le document 39 C/73. Madame,  vous avez la parole.
5.1 Ms Geingos-Onuegbu (Namibia) (Vice-Chairperson of the SHS Commission):   Madam President of the General Conference, Mr Chairperson of the Executive Board, Madam Director-General  of UNESCO, Excellencies, ladies and gentlemen. It is an honour for me to present the report of the Social and Human  Sciences (SHS) Commission on behalf of its Chairperson, Mr Milan Konvit from Slovakia, for adoption by the General  Conference. The report can be found in document 39 C/73. The work of the Commission took place from 7 to
9 November 2017 in four sessions and considered 10 agenda items. Moreover, it considered six draft resolutions  submitted by: the Russian Federation, for items 4.15 and 7.4; India for item 4.16; Czechia and the Netherlands for item
7.4; Brazil for item 7.4; and Mali for item 4.11.
5.2 Distinguished delegates, in my opening speech I recalled the enduring relevance of UNESCO’s mandate in the  social and human sciences for tackling the plethora of pressing issues that the world currently faces, noting the  importance of building responses to global challenges around the shared values and beliefs and a universal recognition  of mutual dignity and rights. I noted the added value of UNESCO’s programme in directing reflections upon the  intellectual, ethical and normative questions which underpin such challenges, as well as for paving a direction to advance  meaningful and impactful action towards their resolutions. I also spoke of the relevance of the social and human sciences  programmes to the advancement of the 2030 Agenda in favour of the most disadvantaged women and men, girls and  boys.
5.3 Let me move on with the first item on the agenda, namely item 4.5, “Conclusions of the Youth Forum”. The item  was introduced by two of the Forum’s young participants, Ms Temwani Melinda Mwale and Mr Monday Collins Okello,  presenting the conclusions drawn from their participation. After briefly presenting their experiences and challenges in  their respective societies, they continued by emphasizing the relevance of the Forum’s vision, namely that the  Organization needs to be “a platform and a catalyst for change where young women and men can co-create what youth  needs”. They highlighted specific recommendations on how youth could be supported to further engage in peacebuilding,  as well as in the shaping of legislation of complex issues.
5.4 The representative of the Director-General, the Assistant Director-General for Social and Human Sciences, then  presented the new approach for the organization of the Youth Forum, reducing the number of participants from 450  people to a smaller group of youth leaders responsible for the creation and management of local initiatives. In reaction to  the conclusions, she underlined that UNESCO was no longer talking, but acting, from Paris to Tunis, Beijing to Harare.  She also noted the changes made to UNESCO’s operational strategy on youth, which positioned youth as more than  beneficiaries, recognizing them now as full partners in UNESCO’s activities. The Honourable Olivia Grange, Minister of  Culture, Gender, Entertainment and Sports of Jamaica, and Chairperson of the Jamaica National Commission for  UNESCO, commended UNESCO for moving forward in its engagement with youth, a sentiment reaffirmed by Mr Bader  Al-Asaker, Secretary-General of the MiSK Foundation, who emphasized the readiness of his organization to work  together with UNESCO to empower youth.
5.5 Thirty-four delegates and one observer took the floor. They welcomed the Forum’s conclusions and efforts made  to rethink youth engagement with UNESCO. Some delegates referred to the new format of the Forum, expressing the  need to include youth representatives from all countries, both at the Forum itself and in its preparation. A swift evaluation  to draw lessons from the pilot edition of the Forum was moreover requested. Delegates also emphasized the importance  of the National Commissions in engaging youth as partners to further UNESCO’s mandate. Several Member States  supported a proposal to place an emphasis on the systematic inclusion of youth as participants in UNESCO’s meetings  and events. The Commission recommended that the General Conference adopt the resolution contained in paragraph 2  of document 39 C/19, as amended, for all other Commissions as well.
5.6 Thereafter, the Commission moved to discuss item 3.2, “Consideration and adoption of the Draft Programme  and Budget for 2018-2021 (39 C/5)”. The representative of the Director-General, the Assistant Director-General for  Social and Human Sciences, presented the vision for the Programme and Budget as proposed in the draft resolution  recommended for adoption, noting the scope of the Sector’s work supporting inclusive social development, fostering  intercultural dialogue for the rapprochement of cultures and promoting ethical principles. She underscored UNESCO’s  strategic vision and orientations for the upcoming years, stressing the strong alignment of the proposed programme with  the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) and UNESCO’s own global priorities, Africa and gender equality. The  representative of the Director-General then gave an overview of the main achievements of the Sector over the previous  two years including focused interventions made to find solutions for social and economic problems, in full alignment with  the priorities articulated in the 2030 Agenda. She further noted the ongoing process of internal reflection on how to more  effectively mobilize partnerships and reinforce the presence of the Sector at country-level.
5.7 Twenty-three Member States as well as two observers took the floor and expressed their position on the Draft  Programme and Budget. The Commission recommended that the General Conference adopt the resolution contained in  paragraph 0.4000 of Volume 1 of document 39 C/5 concerning Major Programme III – Social and Human Sciences, as  amended by the recommendations of the Executive Board contained in paragraph 7, sub-paragraphs 6 and 7 of  document 39 C/6, as well as paragraph 4 under Section D in document 39 C/6 Addendum and the revised appropriation  amount for Major Programme III as contained in document 39 C/COM JM/DR.1.
5.8 The SHS Commission then took note of the reports of various intergovernmental committees namely the  International Bioethics Committee (IBC), the Intergovernmental Bioethics Committee (IGBC), the Intergovernmental  Council of the Management of Social Transformations (MOST) Programme, the Intergovernmental Committee for  Physical Education and Sport (CIGEPS), and the World Commission on the Ethics of Scientific Knowledge and  Technology (COMEST).
5.9 Excellencies, ladies and gentlemen; the debate then continued with the examination of item 4.11, on the World  Humanities Conference held in Liege, Belgium, in August 2017. The background and achievements of the conference,  which had addressed the challenges and responsibilities for a planet in transition, were introduced by the representative  of the Director-General.
5.10 During the debate, 23 Member States took the floor. They overwhelmingly welcomed the aspirations and  achievements of the World Humanities Conference, congratulating its organizers and key partners and emphasized the  importance of integrating the humanities as a transversal consideration in issues considered across the mandate of the  Social and Human Sciences Sector. Several speakers stressed the importance of proper follow-up to the conference’s  achievements. The representative of the Director-General replied to the comments and issues raised by Member States  and following an animated debate, the Commission recommended that the General Conference adopt the proposed  resolution contained in document 39 C/50, paragraph 11, with amendments.
5.11 Our Commission then moved to consider item 4.4 on the establishment of two category 2 centres under the  auspices of UNESCO, the “International Centre for the Rapprochement of Cultures” in Almaty, Kazakhstan, and the  “International Centre for the Promotion of Human Rights at the Local and Regional Levels” in Graz, Austria. After  recommending that the General Conference adopt the resolutions on the establishment of the two category 2 centres,  the representatives of Kazakhstan and Austria – the respective host countries – took the floor to elaborate further on the  planned work of the centres and their alignment with UNESCO’s own mandate and programme.
5.12 Excellencies, ladies and gentlemen, our work followed with a debate on item 4.17, “Revision of the Statutes of  the Management of Social Transformations (MOST) Intergovernmental Council”. Her Excellency, Dato’ Sri Rohani Abdul  Karim, Minister of Women, Family and Community Development, Malaysia, in her capacity as the President of the MOST  Intergovernmental Council (IGC), took the floor and expressed warm thanks to the IGC for having adopted the proposed  revisions during the 13th session hosted by the Government of Malaysia on 16 and 17 March 2017, and expressed  appreciation to the IGC bureau working-group chaired by Turkey and composed of Argentina, Egypt and Thailand. She  requested the support of the SHS Commission for the item. Our commission examined the item without debate, and  recommended for adoption by the General Conference the resolution proposed by the Legal Committee, in paragraph 4  of document 39 C/85, which had suggested amendments to the resolution presented in paragraph 7 of document
5.13 Thereafter, our Commission examined, without debate, item 7.3, “Consolidated report on the implementation by  Member States of the 1974 Recommendation on the Status of Scientific Researchers”, and recommended for adoption  by the General Conference the resolution proposed by the Legal Committee in paragraph 3 of document 39 C/82, which  had suggested amendments to the resolution presented in paragraph 19 of document 39 C/26 Rev.
5.14 Excellencies, ladies and gentlemen, our Commission proceeded to examine item 4.15, “Follow-up to the Sixth  International Conference of Ministers and Senior Officials Responsible for Physical Education and Sport (MINEPS VI)”. A  draft resolution was submitted by the Russian Federation, and was duly introduced by the representative of the Russian  Federation, who thanked the 15 Member States that supported the resolution. He noted that the outcome document of  MINEPS VI, the Kazan Action Plan, was the product of extensive consultations and stressed the need for Member States,  UNESCO, in particular, the Intergovernmental Committee for Physical Education and Sport (CIGEPS) to further  strengthen their efforts to foster the implementation of the Plan.
5.15 In her remarks, the representative of the Director-General expressed her gratitude to the Russian Federation for  the excellent organization of the conference and its commitment to further support the implementation of the Kazan  Action Plan. She highlighted that the Action Plan marked a significant breakthrough, articulating a shift away from mere  declarations of policy intent towards measurable actions, as well as strengthening the alignment between sport policy  development and the 2030 Agenda. She also underlined the Plan’s focus on inclusive participation in grassroots sport,  including traditional games and sport, and announced that a road map for the implementation of the Kazan Action Plan  would be finalized by CIGEPS at its 2018 session.
5.16 While several delegates highlighted the relevance of the Plan to their national sport policy, others expressed the  need for Member States to be assisted in building sports policy capacities. In this regard, the particular requirements of  African Member States to be supported in the follow-up to MINEPS VI was highlighted. A few delegates expressed their  concern about pressing sport integrity issues, including the manipulation of sports competitions and doping, and asked  why action 4 of the Action Plan only addressed gender equality issues while neglecting other key stakeholder groups  such as youth and persons with disabilities.
5.17 The representative of the Director-General noted that capacity-building projects on sport policy were already  under way in some Member States, and invited delegates to solicit the Secretariat with related requests. She mentioned  that the Secretariat was exploring with the African Union the opportunity of organizing a regional meeting devoted to the  Kazan Action Plan. She also highlighted that action 4 of the Plan focused on women and girls and on gender equality as  one of UNESCO global priorities, and explained that other groups were addressed throughout other parts of the Plan.
5.18 Twenty Member States took the floor during the consideration of the item and the Commission recommended  that the General Conference adopt the resolution contained in document 39 C/COM SHS/DR.1, as amended.
5.19 Excellencies, ladies and gentlemen, our Commission continued by examining item 4.16 on UNESCO’s  cooperation with the international township of Auroville in India. The distinguished delegate of India took the floor and  introduced the item, followed by the representative of the Director-General, who recalled the long history of cooperation  between UNESCO and Auroville. The Commission, without debate, recommended that the General Conference adopt  the resolution contained in document 39 C/COM SHS/DR.2
5.20 The Commission then proceeded to the examination of item 6.2, “Draft declaration of ethical principles in relation  to climate change”. Thirty-one Member States took the floor on this item. The representative of the Director-General  introduced the item, underlining that the Executive Board at its 202nd session in October 2017 had reached a consensus  on the matter and transmitted a positive recommendation to adopt the text with an amendment. She further underlined  that the process was one of inclusive consultation.
5.21 A majority of the speakers underlined the importance of the declaration, and expressed confidence that its  adoption would help reinforce practical activities in the areas of education, capacity building and public awareness raising  aimed at mitigating and adapting to climate change. Several representatives of small island developing States underlined  its importance for reinforcing international cooperation to assist their citizens in the specific context of vulnerability.  Several speakers underlined the need for measures to ensure the implementation of the declaration, including translation  into national languages. Many highlighted special measures with regard to gender equality and the role of women.
5.22 Many representatives appreciated that the draft declaration stressed that the United Nations Framework  Convention on Climate Change and the Paris Agreement adopted under the Convention were the primary multilateral  fora in the global effort to respond to climate change, and there would be no reinterpretation. The Commission  recommended that the General Conference adopt the resolution contained in paragraph 8 of document 39 C/22 Rev.
5.23 After the proposal of the Commission to adopt the declaration, the representative of Canada took the floor and  read out the statement of his country to be added in my oral report. I hereby quote the statement: “Canada stresses that  this Declaration does not intend to re-interpret the principles and provisions of the United Nations Framework Convention  on Climate Change or the Paris Agreement, and that the UNFCCC and Paris Agreement bodies are the primary  multilateral fora for international efforts to address climate change”. The full statement of Canada will be added to my oral  report once it has been published.
5.24 Excellencies, ladies and gentlemen, the last debate of our Commission examined item 7.4, “Revision of the
1974 Recommendation on the Status of Scientific Researchers”. Three draft resolutions were submitted respectively by  Brazil, the Russian Federation and jointly by the Netherlands and Czechia.
5.25 The representative of the Director-General introduced the item, thanking Member States for showing great  interest in supporting scientists. A majority of the speakers appreciated the inclusiveness of the process and said that the  text was comprehensive and reflected major contributions made during the consultations. Many explained that their  contributions during the consultations had resulted from extensive consultations within their communities of science  institutions in their own states, and some added that having consultations in several rounds had allowed them time to  contribute. In regard to the draft resolutions submitted by Member States, several representatives underlined that the text  should not be re-opened while regretting that the intergovernmental meeting could not be held. Following long  discussions, a proposal was made that the many concerns might be reflected in the resolution instead of in the text. After  a compromise was reached, the Commission recommended that the General Conference adopt the resolution contained  in paragraph 4 of document 39 C/23 as amended, taking into account recommendations of the Legal Committee made in  document 39 C/83.
5.26 Two Member States requested that their concerns be reflected in my oral report as follows: Brazil underlined the  importance of the equitable sharing of benefits arising from the utilization of the knowledge of indigenous and local  communities. Cuba stated that the process did not count with the adequate intergovernmental phase of deliberation  because an online consultation could not replace the coming together of the governments. While Cuba supported the  consensus achieved, it wished to note its sentiment that Member States did not have the sufficient intergovernmental  forum for such discussions.
5.27 The clarification regarding the Russian language wording of Annex II of document 39 C/23, raised in paragraph
1 of 39 C/COM SHS/DR.6, will be duly transmitted to the secretariat responsible for finalizing the translation, as agreed  during the course of the discussion on this item. Let me also reassure the representative of Côte d’Ivoire that the  correction in French on item 7.4 has been duly transmitted to the concerned service. Thirty-four Member States took part  in the debate, as did one observer.
5.28 Excellencies, ladies and gentlemen, the debates that took place at the SHS Commission highlighted the  relevance of all of the social and human sciences programme, especially in light of the current global context marked by  increasing inequalities, poverty, exclusion, discrimination and the rise of violence and intolerance. The Sector’s role in  reinforcing the links between research, politics and action to support the management of social transformations, the
327  promotion of social inclusion and the fostering of intercultural dialogue was clearly recognized through our discussions  within the Commission. Furthermore, the discussions shed light on the essential contribution of UNESCO’s social and  human sciences programme to the ambitious aspirations of the 2030 Agenda.
5.29 Madam President of the General Conference, Mr Chairperson of the Executive Board, Madam Director-General,  Excellencies, ladies and gentlemen; I would like to thank all the Member States for their active participation and  contribution to the debates. I address my sincere thanks to the outgoing Director-General of UNESCO, Ms Irina Bokova  for her efforts to reaffirm the role of UNESCO in the new context of globalization during the last eight years and I wish the  incoming Director-General, Ms Audrey Azoulay, every success in the future.
5.30 My sincere thanks also goes to the Bureau of the Commission, namely Meral Özgüç (Turkey), Claudine de  Kerdaniel (Saint Vincent and the Grenadines), Mohd Zulkifli Mohammed (Malaysia) and Immolatrix Geingos-Onuegbu  (Namibia), the Vice-Chairpersons, and to Humoud Fahad Abdullah Alqashan (Kuwait), our Rapporteur. Before  concluding, allow me to express all my gratitude to Nada Al-Nashif, Assistant Director-General for Social and Human  Sciences, for her valuable collaboration, support, advice and kindness. I also extend my warmest thanks to the Secretary  of the Commission, Anna Maria Majlöf and her team, namely Euan Mackway-Jones, Mehrdad Shabahang, Cecile  Golden, Flávia Cruz Moreira and Gloria Esther Vernizzi for their competence, patience and devoted work. Finally, our  most sincere appreciations go to the wonderful and flexible interpreters, room clerks, security staff, technical staff, hosts  and hostesses and interns who all contributed to the success of our Commission’s work. I thank you for your kind  attention.
6. La Présidente :   Merci, Madame pour votre présentation. Y a-t-il des commentaires ou des suggestions sur ce rapport ? Je crois  comprendre que le représentant du Danemark veut prendre la parole.
7. Denmark:   Thank you, Madam President, and good morning to all colleagues. Thank you also to Madam Vice-Chairperson  of the SHS Commission for the presentation of the report of the Commission. On behalf of Denmark and for the record,  I would like to make a short comment in relation to item 4.15 on the follow up to the Sixth International Conference of  Ministers and Senior Officials Responsible for Physical Education and Sport (MINEPS VI). Before adopting the  compromise decision of this item in the Commission, Denmark asks ADG/SHS to confirm that the present compromise  wording of paragraph 4 in the decision does not imply any additional financial obligations for the regular budget. In this  understanding, Denmark joins the consensus and the adoption of the draft resolution. Thank you very much, Madam  President.
8. La Présidente :   Merci. Votre déclaration sera notée dans les procès-verbaux de cette session. Puis-je maintenant considérer  que la Conférence générale prend note du rapport de la Commission Sciences sociales et humaines, et adopte les  projets de résolution proposés dans le document 39 C/73, sous réserve des décisions que la Conférence pourrait  prendre lors de l’adoption de la résolution portant ouverture de crédits pour 2018-2019 ? Je vous remercie. Il en est ainsi  décidé.  Report of the APX Commission (Finance, Administration and General Questions, Programme Support and  External Relations) (39 C/70)  Rapport de la Commission APX (Finances, administration et questions générales, soutien du programme et  relations extérieures) (39 C/70)   Informe de la Comisión APX (Cuestiones Financieras y Administrativas, Asuntos Generales, Apoyo del  Programa y Relaciones Exteriores) (39 C/70)   Доклад Комиссии APX (финансовые, административные и общие вопросы, поддержка выполнения  программы и внешние связи) (39 C/70)     تقرير لجنة الشؤون المالية واإلدارية والمسائل العامة ومساندة البرنامج والعالقات الخارجية (٣٩م/٧٠) 财务、行政和一般问题、计划支助和对外关系委员会（APX）的报告(39 C/70)
9. La Présidente :   Excellences, Mesdames et Messieurs, nous allons à présent passer à l’examen du rapport de la Commission  APX, contenu dans le document 39 C/70. J’invite tout d’abord S. E. Mme Sol de Pool, Présidente de cette Commission,  à nous présenter son rapport oral. Excellence, vous avez la parole.
(10.1)  Ms Sol de Pool (El Salvador) (Chairperson of the APX Commission) (translation from the Spanish):   Excellencies, distinguished delegates, please bear with me for a long and comprehensive oral report. I hope none of  you will leave for a coffee break; I know who of you are here, so I shall begin my report, in English.  (The speaker continues in English)
10.2 Madam President of the General Conference, Mr Chairperson of the Executive Board, Madam Director-General,  Madam Director-General Elect, Mr Deputy Director-General, distinguished delegates, Excellencies, ladies and gentlemen.  It is my distinct privilege to present to the plenary my oral report on the work of the Commission for Financial,  Administrative and General Questions, Programme Support and External Relations (APX Commission). As you all know,
328  this is the largest commission of our supreme legislative organ which is the General Conference. At the opening of the  first session in the APX Commission, I said, quoting George Bernard Shaw, that “We are made wise not by the  recollection of our past but by the responsibility of our future”. The future here is that we see a new Director-General  taking over the reins of the Secretariat. I had also emphasized that it is all the more incumbent on us to exercise our  collective wisdom, our collective sense of responsibility, and our collective leadership to co-construct our shared goals.  For this, it was necessary not only to have a meeting of minds through the lens of the Cartesian “I think, therefore I am”  but also a meeting of the hearts through the lens of a Spinozist “I feel, therefore I am”. “Feeling” is not an enemy of  “reason” but an indispensable accomplice, especially in our diverse but united Organization.
10.3 Madam President, this is exactly what we did from 31 October to 4 November 2017, wherein we considered
22 items over the course of 10 meetings, plus one extended session. Our debates were intense, to say the least. While  the famous French moralist and essayist Joseph Joubert said, “It is better to debate a question without settling it than to  settle a question without debating it”, we in the APX Commission managed both to debate and to settle. And, for this, let  me salute all Members of the Commission for their passion, motivation, determination and commitment. Our decisions  are contained within the Commission’s report, document 39 C/70, and the APX Commission recommends that the  General Conference adopt them. In my oral report, I will elaborate on the most salient aspects of our deliberations.
10.4 Madam President, at the first meeting, the APX Commission adopted its timetable. While several items were  recommended for adoption by the Commission without debate, some Member States underlined the intergovernmental  nature of the work of the General Conference and expressed reservations on adopting decisions without debate. They  were assured that every delegation would have the possibility to take the floor and intervene on each and every item of  the Commission’s agenda, if they so wished. I ensured that this fundamental principle was fully respected throughout our  deliberations.
10.5 The first item on the Commission’s agenda was item 1.3, “Report by the Director-General on communications  received from Member States invoking the provisions of Article IV.C, paragraph 8(c), of the Constitution”. As you may  recall, I presented, on the afternoon of Saturday 4 November, at the 11th plenary meeting of the General Conference, an  oral report on this item, following which the corresponding resolution was adopted.
10.6 The APX Commission then considered item 5.2 “Definition of regions with a view to the execution by the  Organization of regional activities” without debate, and recommended that the General Conference admit New Caledonia  as an Associate Member of UNESCO in the Asia and Pacific region with a view to its participation in the regional  activities of the Organization. With regard to item 4.10 “The importance of sound in today’s world: promoting best  practices”, the APX Commission also recommended the adoption of the proposed draft resolution without debate.
10.7 During the examination of item 10.3, “United Nations Joint Staff Pension Fund and Appointment of Member  States’ representatives to the UNESCO Staff Pension Committee for 2018-2019”, the Commission’s attention was drawn  to the fact that the United Nations Joint Staff Pension Fund’s management was a complex and a highly technical process.  For that reason, a recommendation was made to extend the term of the Member States’ representatives from two to four  years. This would ensure continuity and experience of the administration of the Fund, and also align us with the United  Nations practices.
10.8 The Commission underlined that prior to their appointment to the UNESCO Staff Pension Committee, Member  States should be provided with clear explanations on their expected roles and obligations in the pension fund. Prior  briefing sessions on working procedures of the fund would be also needed. The three outgoing Member States made  themselves available for re-election, which was unanimously accepted. Three alternate members of the UNESCO Staff  Pension Committee were also elected.
10.9 Item 10.2 concerned “Staff salaries, allowances and benefits”. Prior to the debate, the representative of the  Director-General informed the Commission of the main changes in salaries, allowances and benefits that had been  implemented since the last session of the General Conference. It was explained that the changes resulted from decisions  adopted by the United Nations General Assembly, or by virtue of authority the International Civil Service Commission  (ICSC) for the United Nations Common System, of which UNESCO was an integral part. The Commission asked for  clarification on the impact of the changes related to the compensation review on serving staff. The Secretariat confirmed  that transitional measures had been put in place and that serving staff were protected, although some staff members  indeed questioned the impact of the review on their individual remuneration.
10.10 Clarification was sought on the rationale of the draft resolution concerning the submission of the proposals to the  Executive Board for approval since the measures were actually pursuant to the decisions of the United Nations General  Assembly and ICSC. The Secretariat explained that though the General Conference authorized the Director-General to  implement the measures, the Secretariat had the obligation to report to the Executive Board should there be any  budgetary difficulties in applying them.
10.11 When the Commission turned to item 10.6, “Human Resources Management Strategy for 2017-2022”, the  representative of the Director-General introduced the new Strategy, which is aimed at equipping UNESCO with human  resource capacity to deliver on its mandates, particularly for the 2030 Agenda. The Commission was informed that the  Strategy would help to strengthen staff’s capabilities on one hand, and to create an enabling and engaging work  environment on the other. A number of new initiatives would support those twin objectives, with a strong emphasis on  learning, mobility and performance management.
10.12 Member States welcomed the proposed Strategy, reiterating that the staff was the Organization’s most important  asset and key to its success. It was suggested that a new indicator on staff well-being could be elaborated. The  Commission noted that tangible progress had been made in terms of gender parity but stressed that the objective should
329  be achieved across all levels and grades at the Secretariat and gender-neutral language should be applied. Some  delegations raised concerns about geographical representation and reiterated the need to scale up efforts to improve the  situation and for more staff to be recruited from non- and under-represented countries.
10.13 The representative of the Director-General indicated that targets in terms of geographical distribution and gender  parity would be set and monitored for ADGs and directors of Bureaus. The Commission was assured that the Young  Professionals Programme, which was key to improve geographical representation, would be launched soon.
10.14 With regard to staff mobility, the Commission stressed the need to put an effective mobility policy and scheme in  place and make it mandatory for staff, particularly when considered for promotion. Some members expressed regrets  about the lack of a sustainable training budget, stressing that training was fundamental for staff development. Questions  were asked with regard to incentives and sanctions. Member States were assured that the Secretariat would explore  mechanisms to have performance reviews at regular, shorter intervals, as a good practice to enhance performance.
10.15 The Commission also highlighted the importance of information transparency, in particular the need for the  Secretariat to share information on vacancies and appointments in a timely manner. The need to streamline job  descriptions for vacancy notices was stressed. An issue was raised with regard to the assessment of Member States’  satisfaction on the services rendered by the Secretariat.
10.16 Madam President, the Commission then examined item 9.2, “Scale of assessment and currency of Member  States’ contributions” in conjunction with item 9.4, “Working Capital Fund: Level of administration”.
10.17 Prior to the debate, the representative of the Director-General indicated that the scale of assessment of Member  States’ contributions for 2018 was known, whereas that was not the case for 2019, since that would be adopted by the  United Nations General Assembly only in December 2018. With regard to the currency of assessment and payment of  contributions for the next biennium, the Commission was assured that the euro percentage of assessed contributions  should remain at the same level of 47%.
10.18 Several Member States raised concerns about the impact of the United States of America’s withdrawal on the  scale of assessment for 2019. The Commission was assured that the impact would be significant in percentages but not  in amounts. Upon the request of several delegations, the Secretariat provided a simulation of the impact of the United  States of America’s withdrawal in 2019 based on the 2018 scale of assessment. Some Member States suggested that  the indicative table provided should be a part of a General Conference document. The Commission noted that although  the draft resolution endorsed by the APX Commission referred to “a” scale of assessment in singular, it should be read  as “scales”, in plural, of assessment.
10.19 Furthermore, the Commission noted the proposal by the Director-General to maintain the Working Capital Fund  at the level of $30 million for 2018, but to reduce it to $23.4 million for 2019, in view of the withdrawal of the United States  of America at the end of 2018. The Commission sought clarifications regarding the $6.6 million reduction in Working  Capital for 2019. The representative of the Director-General clarified that the withdrawal of the United States of America  in 2019 would require additional contributions from Member States if the Working Capital Fund was kept at the same  level. The proposed reduction would have no impact on current Member States’ contributions to the Fund.
10.20 Some Member States enquired how and when the reduced $6.6 million would be used. It was indicated that the  reduction of the working capital would be used to partially settle the United States of America’s arrears. The funds would  be kept in the Organization’s balance sheet for the next biennium and the Director-General would present a proposal on  the level of the working capital at the 40th session of the General Conference taking into account the impact of the  withdrawal of Member States.
10.21 The examination of item 11.1, “Report by the Director-General, in cooperation with the Headquarters Committee,  on Managing the UNESCO Complex” started with a brief presentation by the Chairperson of the Headquarters  Committee on the work undertaken by the Committee in relation to the benefits of the space optimization plan of  Headquarters premises, revenue-generating activities and the maintenance of Headquarters installations. The Members  of the Commission hailed the high quality of work of the Chairperson of the Headquarters Committee, H.E. Mr Ali Zainal,  Ambassador and Permanent Delegate of Qatar, over the last biennium.
10.22 The APX Commission endorsed the draft resolution authorizing the Director-General to enter into negotiations  for a loan to finance the renovation of the Building V, Miollis. A query was raised as to how the repayment of any loan  would be ensured. It was stated in response that negotiations were only a preliminary stage of a process which would  involve discussions at the Headquarters Committee and the Executive Board including on the repayment and the  financing related to such repayments of any future loans. It was announced that the host country had decided to  guarantee the interest payment of such a loan. The Commission inquired about the evaluation of the project, asking if the  estimated budget of €42 million for the renovation might increase in the next two years. The representative of the  Director-General explained that a relevant provision had already been estimated and included in the project’s budget, but  in the event that the implementation period was prolonged, the costs could increase because of inflation.
10.23 The Commission was informed that the project was prepared on the basis of the experience gained during the  implementation of the Belmont Plan, while taking into account the benchmarks applied at other United Nations agencies.  The Commission was assured that the relevant information would be presented to the Executive Board for examination,  following further analysis by the Headquarters Committee.
10.24 The discussion of item 5.1,”Governance, procedures and working methods of the governing bodies of UNESCO”  broke at least two records over the past 30 years: the longest debate of a single item of the APX Commission and the  first ever vote in this same Commission. The reason for these records is certainly due to the aspiration and shared
330  responsibility of Member States to thoroughly review the governance of the Organization, taking stock of the very  significant and important recommendations issued by the working group on the governance, procedures and working  methods of UNESCO’s governing bodies.
10.25 Prior to the debate, Mr Hendrik Garcia from the Philippines, as Chairperson of the sub-working group, presented  the report of the working group. All 52 Member States who took the floor during the debate commended the key role of  the President of the 38th session of the General Conference, His Excellency Mr Stanley Mutumba Simataa, the co- Chairs from the Philippines, Norway and Hungary, as well as the Secretariat, in guaranteeing such a valuable outcome of  the working group.
10.26 The bulk of the discussion, which lasted over 12 hours in total, including an extended session on Saturday
4 November, concerned paragraphs 20, 21, 52, 53 which were left in brackets by the working group for final decision by  the General Conference and 134 (b) of the working group’s recommendations contained in document 39 C/20.
10.27 A great deal of time was devoted to deciding whether they should be considered as a package or as a separate  set, or as part of the operational part of the draft resolution. All agreed that the 129 recommendations already retained by  the working group were the result of a global consensus, which did not need additional debate. Following the advice of  the Legal Adviser and, in view of the opinion expressed by some Member States that the bracketed recommendations all  had different significance, the Commission proceeded with the examination of the bracketed recommendations one by  one.
10.28 During the debate, two major points of view clearly emerged. One group of Member States wished to endorse  the already-agreed recommendations and leave aside those lacking consensus. Other Members insisted that the  bracketed recommendations were fundamental for reforming the governing bodies in light of the evolving nature of the  Organization. They stressed that the current session of the General Conference should decide on those  recommendations, instead of postponing their consideration to a later stage.
10.29 More than 150 Member States were present in the room when the item was debated in the APX Commission.  Diverse opinions and divergent positions were expressed, attesting to the complexity of our deliberations. We tried hard  and turned every stone to reach consensus on the recommendation in paragraph 20 on term limits for elections in the  Executive Board to promote equitable geographical rotation and opportunities for smaller countries. However, despite all  efforts including giving sufficient time to the members to come together to discuss and come to some agreement,  consensus on the issue proved to be a task beyond the means of the Commission members.
10.30 When the Commission decided, after long deliberations, to vote on the recommendation contained in paragraph
20, the Legal Adviser advised that a vote be taken on it within the operational part of the draft resolution. However,  several Member States insisted that the recommendations should not be separated and that paragraph 20 should be  voted as part of all other recommendations in the Annex.
10.31 As the recommendation contained in paragraph 20 was about “the principle” of term limitation for the Executive  Board’s membership, some Member States suggested adding relevant wording on that notion to the text of the  recommendation before voting took place. However, that proposal was not retained as it was considered already implicit.
10.32 Paragraph 20 was thus approved after a roll-call vote, called for by the Member States, where 103 voting  Member States endorsed the recommendation and 12 voted against. The Commission noted that the recommendation  was about “the principle”, and if approved by the General Conference at its current session, its implementation would still  entail a process leading to the submission of an amendment to UNESCO’s Constitution, which required a two-thirds  majority to become binding and effective. Following the vote, the Commission deleted the recommendation in paragraph
21 on self-restraint of candidatures.
10.33 The discussion then continued on the recommendations contained in paragraphs 52 and 53 related to the  procedure for the election of the Director-General and the reinforcement of the General Conference’s role in that respect.  The Commission agreed that sufficient discussions had not taken place on those points, and that such a reform should in  fact be part of the future follow-up mechanisms that had already been proposed in the document.
10.34 The debate on the last bracketed recommendation in paragraph 134 (b), under the follow-up mechanisms,  centred on the question as to whether the extended working group, scheduled to reconvene before the 40th and 41st  sessions of the General Conference, should focus its attention on the implementation of the approved recommendations  and the review of outstanding issues including the process of the election of the Director-General as well as the  subsidiary bodies of the Executive Board.
10.35 After a very long discussion and with the firm intention of the Commissions’ members to find a consensus  proposal by making substantial concessions, the recommendation on the follow-up mechanisms was approved with  amendments. As the APX Commission revised the recommendations put forward by the working group and in response  to one delegation’s question if the APX Commission was about to replace the working group, the Legal Adviser clarified  that the General Conference had authority to modify the texts that it adopted.
10.36 The Commission was able to come to a common position on diverse issues, but some other points could not  obtain the full support of the membership. They included points relating to the subsidiary bodies, which had not been  sufficiently discussed in the working group, and the procedure for the election of the Director-General.
10.37 The Room agreed unanimously that the working group should reconvene prior to the 40th and 41st sessions of  the General Conference and its primary focus should be on the implementation of the recommendations on governance  adopted by the General Conference at its 39th session. The examination of other subsidiary bodies of the Executive
331  Board, considered important for some Member States, was not retained in the final version of the approved  recommendations. The Commission also discussed potential financial implications for holding the working group’s  meetings. While some delegations stressed the need to identify the required funding, others pointed out that solely the  financial aspect could not be considered as an impediment.
10.38 The resolution was finally endorsed with amendments reflecting the Commission’s review of the  recommendations of the working group on governance, as well as additional inputs related to the concrete follow-up by  the Secretariat, and the immediate application of the reform of the working group on voting rights. I should like to  underline that while examining the draft resolution related to the working group on voting rights, the Commission stressed  an “ethical dimension” that should be considered regarding the group’s composition. It was agreed that only Member  States which were not deprived of their voting rights in accordance with Article IV.C., paragraph 8 (b) of the Constitution,  could be considered eligible for election of the working group.
10.39 You will recall, Madam President, that during my oral report on voting rights to the plenary on 4 November in this  room, I informed the General Conference that the APX Commission had set up a working group on voting rights.  Continuity and institutional memory is crucial for this very sensitive task and this group would need to be institutionalized  as per the APX Commission’s decision on the resolution under the governance reform. The working group, which will be  considered as formally constituted upon the approval of this report by the plenary, would be thus composed of Germany  (Group I), Slovenia (Group II), El Salvador (Group III) Philippines (Group IV), Mozambique (Group V(a)) and Oman  (Group V(b)) representing all electoral groups.
10.40 Let me also to recall that the Legal Committee also examined item 5.1 and made no changes to the substance  and spirit but did make some legal language changes to simplify Article 82 of the Rules of the Procedure of the General  Conference concerning voting rights as per their mandate. The adoption of the Legal Committee’s report by this plenary  later on will imply this legal amendment.
10.41 After the decision was adopted, the Secretariat was invited to take the floor. The Secretariat noted that the  follow-up mechanism was not clearly defined and that the draft resolution contained no indication on the concrete steps  and initiatives for resumption of the working group’s work nor on a specific budget to fund it.
10.42 I must admit, Madam President, that these discussions were a testing time for all including for me in the chair.  The famous British essayist and poet T.S. Eliot perhaps wrote this with me in mind “In order to arrive at what you are not,  you must go by a way in which you are not”.
10.43 Madam President, item 9.1 related to “Financial report and audited consolidated financial statements relating to  the accounts of UNESCO for the year ended 31 December 2016, and report by the External Auditor” was examined in  conjunction with item 10.5, “Audit of the Medical Benefits Fund (MBF) and the Medical Service of UNESCO”.
10.44 Prior to the debate, the Commission heard a report by Mr Didier Migaud, External Auditor of UNESCO (France).  Providing an unqualified opinion on the 2016 consolidated financial statements, the External Auditor noted that the deficit  of the Organization increased from $25 million in 2015 to $49 million at the end of 2016 mainly due to a $19 million  decrease in assessed contributions and a $60 million drop in voluntary contributions, both of which were offset by a  $56 million decrease in expenses.
10.45 The External Auditor indicated that among six recommendations issued last year, only one was refused, four  were partially implemented and was revised. The Commission noted that, for 2016, the External Auditors issued
14 recommendations, which focused on several measures to fund the long-term liability for After-Service Health  Insurance (ASHI); to make the IT environment secure and protected from external risks; to adopt a more realistic  exchange rate for the preparation of the budget, and to improve the accounting and financial information system and to  reconcile the assets recorded by Headquarters with the physical inventory.
10.46 As Mr Migaud was addressing the General Conference for the last time, having reached the end of his term as  External Auditor of UNESCO, he also provided an overview of the various audits undertaken during the two consecutive  terms over the course of 12 years which had resulted in the issuance of 130 audit reports as well as numerous synthesis  reports in three core areas, namely: the certification of accounts, which included annual reports on the consolidated  accounts of the Organization; a report on the UNESCO Staff Savings and Loan Service; and three reports on the  category 1 institutes – the UNESCO Institute for Lifelong Learning in Hamburg, the UNESCO International Institute for  Educational Planning in Paris and the Abdus Salam International Centre for Theoretical Physics in Trieste. Secondly,  performance audits had been conducted, three to six a year, on the most diverse and important topics, including those  relating to the governance of UNESCO, the implementation of reforms following the budgetary crisis, the renovation of  the Fontenoy building, the mobilization of extrabudgetary contributions and the staff management. The audit of UNESCO  field offices, two to four reports each year, aimed at improving the management of this very important component and  delivery arm of the Organization.
10.47 The External Auditor noted that the reports, which contained targeted observations and constructive criticism,  had contributed to establish a true picture of the financial situation of UNESCO and to make the Organization more  effective and efficient. As such, he said, the objectives formulated by his predecessor, Mr Philippe Séguin, in 2005 in  running for election for UNESCO’s External Auditor, had been achieved.
10.48 Highlighting his team’s close collaboration with the Secretariat on the follow-up to the recommendations,  Mr Migaud commended the positive trend in the implementation of the External Auditor’s recommendations by UNESCO.  He expressed satisfaction that out of the 332 recommendations made to the Secretariat in May 2015, 61% had been  implemented, against a figure of less than 42% two years previously. The External Auditor concluded by stating that the
332  French Court of Auditors was not standing for re-election for a third term for the sake of renewal. He expressed his  personal gratitude to the Director-General for her support, cooperation and trust as well as for the attention she accorded  to the External Auditor’s recommendations. Finally, Mr Migaud thanked all UNESCO Member States for their confidence  and support during his term of office.
10.49 The members of the APX Commission expressed, by acclamation, their deep appreciation for the high-quality  work and excellent support provided by the External Auditor and his team to render UNESCO more efficient. The  Commission inquired when the External Auditor’s report on UNESCO field offices would be submitted and whether a  strategy was needed to fund the After-Service Health Insurance liability, which fluctuated from one year to another. The  Commission was assured that the report on field offices would be presented to the Executive Board at its 204th session  in 2018. It was also clarified that the variation of the liability was due to changes in assumptions – actuarial rates, health  care inflation, and so forth. A long-term financial strategy was important, as there was a widening gap between the  decreasing number of active staff and the increasing number of retirees.
10.50 With regard to the audit of the Medical Benefits Fund, the Commission sought clarification as to whether the  External Auditor implied a possibility of non-compliance with the terms of the International Labour Organization  Administrative Tribunal (ILOAT) judgement. The Auditor clarified that there was a legal risk with non-compliance and that  therefore reverting to the status quo ante was necessary with consideration of Recommendation No. 1 from their audit  concerning regular actuarial evaluations and empowering the Director-General to introduce emergency measures to  mitigate any financial imbalances in the fund. Item 10.4, “Report by the Director-General on the state of the Medical  Benefits Fund (MBF)” had two components relating to the Fund’s governance and its financial situation. With regard to  the governance, one delegation stressed the importance of a well-functioning Board of Management for the smooth  running of the Fund and supported the recommendation to return to the status quo before the Administrative Circular  AC/HR/43 of 21 October 2014, which had been repealed by ILOAT judgments 3761 and 3762.
10.51 The Commission recalled the External Auditor’s recommendation to have regular actuarial evaluations and to  empower the Director-General to introduce emergency measures to mitigate any financial imbalances. The Commission  further felt that due consideration should be given to the External Auditor’s relevant recommendation which foresaw two  possible options for actions in light of the ILOAT judgments. As there were several Member States willing to serve as  observers on the MBF Board of Management, three were appointed instead of the two foreseen.
10.52 The financial situation of the Medical Benefits Fund was introduced by the Chief Finance Officer, who referred to  the proposed measures for the sustainability of the Fund and the After-Service Health Insurance (ASHI) funding. She  explained the Director-General’s recommendation to adopt a formal policy of ensuring an ideal minimum reserves level  of 15 months cover of claim reimbursements.
10.53 The Commission was assured that whenever the level of reserves fell below 12 months of claim reimbursements,  the MBF contribution scale would be adjusted accordingly. Further explanations were provided on the Director-General’s  proposal to seek the General Conference’s authorization to transfer any balance, which may become available after the  closure of the accounts, from the contributions to the MBF for associate participants under document 38 C/5 to the  Special Account of ASHI.
10.54 When examining item 8.2, “Principles and conditions of the Participation Programme and emergency  assistance”, the Commission was informed that the draft resolution had been prepared in conformity with the  recommendation made by UNESCO’s External Auditor, with additional measures aimed at the optimization of the  Programme’s management. The Commission noted that the Organization’s two global priorities, Africa and gender  equality, were now duly taken into consideration in approving the incoming requests.
10.55 The APX Commission unanimously affirmed the crucial importance and great impact of the Participation  Programme, and several Members expressed their overall satisfaction with its management. Some delegations stressed  the importance of the Participation Programme for small island developing States in the Caribbean and the Pacific as  well as for increasing UNESCO’s visibility at the national level. Some Members requested that the current number of  seven requests be maintained in 2018-2019. Others underlined the importance of offering additional opportunities for  training and capacity building of National Commissions through the Participation Programme.
10.56 Member States called for flexibility in the evaluation of requests, notably with regard to application of criteria on  the per capita income for middle-income countries or gender equality for the Caribbean States. Concerns were also  expressed on difficulties concerning online application, particularly in countries with low bandwidth Internet access. The  Commission was assured that despite the limited resources, more efforts would be deployed by the Secretariat for  training, when possible, with the help of other National Commissions. As to the strategy to attract extrabudgetary funds,  clarifications were provided that the Participation Programme was not conceived to mobilize extrabudgetary resources  and that this possibility was not explored by the Secretariat.
10.57 Let me turn now to item 8.1, “Proposals for qualitative dialogue between Member States and NGOs, including  within the governing bodies”. Distinguished delegations may recall that the General Conference at its 38th session  invited the Director-General to reflect on new forms of information and exchange with a view to reinforcing interaction  between Member States, the Secretariat and non-governmental organizations.
10.58 Prior to the debate, the representative of the Director-General informed the Commission of the ongoing  reflection within the Executive Board regarding new proposals for the creation of additional opportunities for such a  qualitative dialogue, drawing on best practices of other United Nations agencies and similar institutions.
10.59 The Commission expressed appreciation for the work accomplished and highlighted the importance of the  contributions of NGOs and the critical role of a multi-stakeholder engagement in the implementation of the Sustainable  Development Goals. Some delegations stressed the need to take into account the intergovernmental nature of  UNESCO’s work and to clearly define the different roles and responsibilities of Member States and non-governmental  partners within the Organization. The crucial role of UNESCO’s National Commissions as the main interlocutor in  interacting with the civil society at the national level was also underlined.
10.60 When considering item 4.1, “Proposals by Member States concerning the celebration of anniversaries in 2018-
2019 with which UNESCO could be associated”, the Commission was informed that a list of anniversaries with which  UNESCO could be associated during the next biennium was proposed for the General Conference’s endorsement,  pursuant to the decisions of the Executive Board at its 201st and 202nd sessions.
10.61 The Commission noted that despite the new procedure and criteria applied by the Secretariat, as set forth in the  Executive Board’s decision 195 EX/Decision 25, the situation remained a cause of concern with respect to geographical  distribution and gender balance in relation with those celebrations. It was clarified that the quality of the proposals and  considerations relating to geographical and gender balance therein were the responsibility of Member States. The  Commission recalled that the anniversaries with which UNESCO could be associated must be indisputably linked to the  Organization’s ideals and missions.
10.62 Madam President, when examining item 8.3, “Draft regulatory framework regarding associations, centres and  clubs for UNESCO”, the Commission took note that the purpose of the enhanced draft regulatory framework was to  ensure that Associations and Clubs for UNESCO met the highest possible standards in terms of their alignment with  UNESCO’s priorities and their responsibility in using the Organization’s name and logo, under the general oversight of  National Commissions. Some Member States had noted serious problems related to the functioning of such entities and  the utilization of the Organization’s name.
10.63 Member States thus, in general, commended the Secretariat’s efforts and expressed their overall support for the  draft regulatory framework, which should provide a legitimate basis and guidance for optimizing National Commissions’  collaboration with Associations and Clubs for UNESCO. One delegation proposed to establish an ad hoc working group  to facilitate the implementation of the framework. Another delegation noted that the Secretariat should have adequate  capacity to support National Commissions in handling the complicated cases of unauthorized use of UNESCO’s name by  the Associations and Clubs for UNESCO. The Commission was assured of the Secretariat’s readiness to do so.
10.64 Some delegations acknowledged that certain Associations, Centres and Clubs for UNESCO had significantly  contributed to the promotion of UNESCO’s values and visibility over last seven decades. It was suggested that in  countries with a long-standing tradition of a well-functioning Clubs movement, the autonomy of those entities should not  be affected.
10.65 I would like to recall that the Legal Committee also considered item 8.3 and recommended that the mention of  “centres” be excluded from the categories of partners in the clubs movement. That was done to avoid any confusion with  of the formal category 1 and 2 centres, which operated under UNESCO’s auspices. Some members of the APX  Commission nevertheless recalled that a purely historical dimension of the contribution of “centres” to UNESCO’s  objectives should be duly recognized.
10.66 The consideration of item 10.1, “Staff Regulations and Staff Rules”, which had been proposed to the  Commission without debate, in fact gave rise to very extensive and complex debates. Prior to the debate, the  representative of the Director-General provided a comprehensive presentation on the rationale of the proposed  amendments to Staff Regulation 9.5 regarding the mandatory age of separation, and to Staff Regulation 1.6 on gifts.
10.67 With regard to the mandatory age of separation, to be raised to 65 years for all staff, the Secretariat proposed an  implementation date of January 2020. That would mean that the 110 staff reaching retirement age would retire in 2018-
2019, resulting in 110 vacant posts. It was explained that such a postponement would create opportunities for mobility  and career advancement, allow new skills to be brought into the Organization, lead to staff cost savings and provide the  new Director-General with some flexibility for adjusting structures and units. It was recalled that some other United  Nations specialized agencies had also extended the age of retirement. On the financial implications, the Chief Financial  Officer explained that the lapse factor of 3% proposed in document 39 C/5 took into account an effective date of
1 January 2020.
10.68 While some Members of the Commission were supportive of the proposed measure due to the budgetary  situation at UNESCO and in view of the need for some flexibility in staff management, the others, however, were not  absolutely convinced with the Secretariat’s arguments, stressing that the United Nations General Assembly resolution of
2015 should be implemented in full, and hence that the mandatory age of retirement of 65 should be effective as from
1 January 2018. The Commission strongly felt that UNESCO, being part of the United Nations common system, should  ensure that its staff had the same conditions of service as staff from other United Nations agencies.
10.69 In that vein, the proposal of postponing the implementation date until 1 January 2019 was put forward by a  delegation as a compromise solution, which was not retained because it could be considered as a deviation from the  timely implementation of the United Nations General Assembly resolution. At this juncture, and on a lighter note, let me  recall Mark Twain’s famous adage: “Age is an issue of mind over matter. If you don’t mind, it doesn’t matter”.
10.70 Now again on a serious note, Madam President, during this very long debate, over two sessions and lasting  about five hours, some Member States expressed concern about the potential legal challenges due to the postponement  of the implementation. The Legal Adviser confirmed that there was no legal obligation for UNESCO to immediately
334  implement the age of retirement, as the United Nations General Assembly resolution could not be considered as legally  binding on UNESCO.
10.71 Some Member States suggested keeping the implementation date at 1 January 2018 but introducing the  mention of voluntary retirement before the age of 65 as optional in the draft resolution. In that respect and in response to  the Commission’s inquiry, the representative of the Director-General clarified that, in the event of the implementation in
2018, the staff who had acquired the right to retire at 60 or 62, would still retain those rights in 2018 and 2019. One  Member State proposed maintaining the effective date of 2018, while allowing the Secretariat to launch an agreed  separation package for staff who wished to leave. The Secretariat explained that while such a scheme would be possible,  it would be very costly. The Chairperson reminded the Commission that the latest scheme had cost $5.2 million.
10.72 The Commission sought clarifications as to whether the staff concerned had been consulted on the proposed  measure. The representative of the Director-General clarified that the proposal for a postponement to 2020 had been  announced by the Director-General to all staff in July 2017. Informal individual consultations had also taken place. Some  Member States questioned why the item had not been not disclosed and discussed at the Executive Board to give time  for a thorough discussion and decision on the issue.
10.73 Clarifications were asked on the financial implications in terms of staff cost savings and also on the costs of  separation should staff retire in 2018-2019. It was clarified that the $1.6 million biennial savings in staff costs had been  calculated on the basis of a replacement cost by post. Current staff, who had stayed for long years in their post, were in  majority in the higher steps of the salary scale being replaced by new staff – internal or external – at the lower end of the  salary scale. Hence, savings would be made on staff costs. Concerning separation costs, those would be incurred in any  event and had been calculated into the staff costs of document 39 C/5.
10.74 As the very intense and detailed debate continued, some delegations emphasized the human rights dimension  of the proposed measure, including the element of age discrimination, while others stressed that the postponement of the  implementation date to 2020 could negatively affect the retention of experience, skills and institutional memory in the  Organization. A majority of the Commission members therefore urged that the decision taken by Member States in New  York be duly respected by UNESCO.
10.75 While some delegations had called for flexibility to advance with reforms, I should like to underline that later on,  the same Member States, who had earlier called for such flexibility, expressed their readiness to join a consensus, taking  into account all that had been said the day before, indicating that the issue did affect people and that they would not go  against the staff associations’ positions. In this respect, I extend my deep appreciation to the delegation of France for its  constructive response in joining the consensus, so carefully and exhaustively constructed, in line with the spirit of  UNESCO’s decision-making.
10.76 Subsequent to further extensive and intense discussions in the room and allowing for a break in the discussions  during lunch, I asked the delegates to come back with any further new thinking or proposals. Consequently, as no  amendment was suggested, the APX Commission, in a manner of consensus without any opposition, decided to retain  the effective date of 1 January 2018.
10.77 Subsequent to the adoption of the decision, the Director of Human Resources asked for the floor and stated that  the Secretariat might revisit the timeline of the implementation of the Human Resource Strategy 2017-2022, as it  required necessary adjustments. The Chief Finance Officer also stated that the decision would have consequences on  the staff cost situation, taking into account the 3% lapse factor already reflected in document 39 C/5, and on the  availability of staff cost savings for temporary assistance.
10.78 Madam President, it is important to remember the philosopher Immanuel Kant’s words: “Always recognize that  human individuals are ends, and do not use them as means to your end”. What was generally emanating from the  discussions in the Commission was that staff as human beings have intrinsic worth.
10.79 With regard to the proposed changes to Staff Regulation 1.6 on gifts, the representative of the Director-General  explained that this proposal was prepared pursuant to the Executive Board decision and was in line with the United  Nations Secretariat Staff Regulation on gifts. Once adopted by the General Conference, the Secretariat would work on a  detailed policy and guidance, in consultation with the Ethics Office.
10.80 The Commission inquired whether the Ethics Adviser had been consulted on the proposed staff regulation,  noting that the delegations had not heard the Ethics Adviser’s opinion and comments on that point. The Commission was  assured that the Ethics Adviser had been consulted on the draft staff regulation, although there had been divergences of  opinions. One Member State inquired whether the issue had to do with possible conflicts of interest or breaches of ethics.
10.81 The Commission pointed out that Member States should be made aware of UNESCO’s regulations on gifts.  Taking into account that gifts were sometimes offered by governments, one Member stressed that a certain level of  flexibility should be given to the Director-General to decide at his or her discretion. It was also suggested that the  acceptance of gifts should be based on well-founded reasons and that an ad hoc committee could advise on the matter.
10.82 Subsequent to the Members having spoken, the representatives of two UNESCO staff associations – STU and  ISAU – were given the floor to intervene as had been accorded by the General Conference upon request by the Director- General. STU noted with regret the Secretariat’s proposal not to implement the mandatory age of separation at the age  of 65 as of 1 January 2018, and expressed concern that staff would be the victims of the Organization’s financial crisis.  STU was also alarmed by the argument that the Organization would need flexibility in case staff reductions would be  considered due to budget constraints. STU underlined that in the absence of a real succession plan, they would only  welcome the postponement of the implementation until 2020 on two conditions: first, that the estimated savings of $1.6
335  million in 2018-2019 should be used to finance the training of staff; and second, when the 110 vacant posts were up for  recruitment, priority should be given to staff members of the Organization. They also spoke on the Medical Benefits Fund  and the human resources strategy, which did not meet their expectations nor follow the rules.
10.83 ISAU also challenged the proposed measure and stated that the Administration’s arguments were unfounded.  They recalled that the International Civil Service Commission (ICSC) was not convinced either that the postponement of  the implementation of the mandatory age of retirement would speed up organizational restructuring in the areas of  human resources management. They expressed doubts as to the savings that could be generated by postponing the  date of separation, given the costs associated to such separations. ISAU stressed that the implementation as of
1 January 2018 would help retain staff with institutional knowledge and experience in UNESCO. ISAU also spoke on the  fact that the previous Human Resources Strategy 2011-2016 had not been evaluated, and on the choice of health care  providers under the MBF.
10.84 The APX Commission then considered item 3.1, “Methods of preparing the budget, budget estimates for 2018-
2021, and budgeting techniques” without debate, and in the light of the Executive Board’s deliberations on that matter,  recommended the relevant draft resolution for adoption by the General Conference.  It concerned results-based  budgeting (RBB), which was also discussed during the Executive Board. Let me recall for this assembly that this is a  budget process which the General Conference has already approved in the past and in which: (a) budget formulation  revolves around a set of predefined objectives and expected results; (b) expected results justify the resource  requirements which are derived from and linked to outputs required to achieve such results; and (c) actual performance  in achieving results is measured by objective performance indicators.
10.85 While Ralph Waldo Emerson, an American essayist and poet had said “Money often costs too much”, it is  noticed that under RBB we do not talk about money and budget ceilings but results first.
10.86 With regard to item 3.4, “Adoption of the provisional budget ceiling”, as this item had already been examined in  the Joint Meeting of Commissions at its first and second sessions on 31 October and 1 November, the members of the  APX Commission took note of the recommendation of the Joint Meeting of Commissions without debate. Therefore,  allow me to highlight key aspects of the debate in the Joint Meeting of Commissions on this item.
10.87 As distinguished delegates may recall, the budget in document 39 C/5 has been prepared, for the first time,  within an integrated budget framework. At the Joint Meeting of Commissions, Member States were informed of the  results of intense discussions held at the Executive Board to reach consensus concerning the budgetary aspects.  However, several Members felt that the information provided in document 39 C/INF.24 on the impact of the withdrawal of  the United States of America on 31 December 2018 had not been published sufficiently in advance for Members to take  cognizance of it and understand it well enough. Furthermore, Members felt that the explanations as to the adoption  process was not clear so as to proceed with taking a decision on the provisional budget celling in a transparent manner.
10.88 Therefore, a draft resolution, containing the core budget framework for document 39 C/5, taking into account the  United States of America’s withdrawal on budget figures, was thus rapidly prepared by the Secretariat and the Joint  Commission examined it at its second meeting held on 1 November in the morning.
10.89 With reference to the integrated budget framework, some delegations expressed concern at the fact that  UNESCO was becoming more reliant on extrabudgetary contributions. In response, the Commission was assured that  the Organization would continue to ensure that the extrabudgetary resources would be used in full alignment with the  priorities and expected results of the C/5 document. It was also recalled that that approach gave a holistic picture of the  financial resources for the Organization’s programme implementation.
10.90 Member States raised questions on the additional voluntary contributions that were planned to be raised during  the biennium and sought clarifications on the obligations to fill the “gap”. It was explained that if the “gap” were not filled,  it should not be considered as a budgetary “deficit” and it would in no way be compensated by additional assessed  contributions from Member States.
10.91 As to a question related to the impact of the new cost-recovery policy on the budget in document 39 C/5, the  delegations took note that the budget to be adopted by the General Conference reflected the new cost-recovery policy  but the differentiated rates would be applied only after a formal approval of the Executive Board in the spring of 2018.  The Members underlined that UNESCO’s resources should be used for the most important priorities of the Organization  in line with document 39 C/5.
10.92 Member States were further informed that due to the departure of the United States of America from the  Organization as of January 2019, the amount of Member States’ contributions for 2018-2019 would be different between  the year 2018 and the year 2019. For that reason, some delegations asked for a paper that could provide a simulation of  assessed contributions’ amounts for each Member State. The Secretariat provided such a document, which was based  on the current scale of assessment, but without taking into account what might take place in 2019 as a United Nations- wide revision of the scale.
10.93 Finally, several Member States requested that, in the interests of smooth debate in future sessions of the  General Conference, the custom for proceeding with the item “Adoption of the provisional budget ceiling” be clearly  established, taking into account new factors such as the integrated budget framework, membership, etc. and the relevant  explanatory information should be provided to Member States in advance.
10.94 Madam President, consideration by the APX Commission of item 3.2, “Consideration and adoption of the Draft  Programme and Budget for 2018-2021” was related to all the corporate services of the Organization.
10.95 In view of the withdrawal of the United States of America from UNESCO as of 31 December 2018, the  Commission adopted the programme and the revised budget ceilings for each chapter in document 39 C/5  corresponding to the $595.2 million budget scenario within the overall integrated budget framework which was prepared  to replace budget numbers appearing in document 39 C/5 Volume 1.
10.96 A member of the Commission sought clarifications on the rationale of the draft resolutions not showing the  breakdown of resources between the regular programme and extrabudgetary funds. The representative of the Director- General explained that document 39 C/5 Addendum provided the complete distribution of funds between the sources of  funds included in the integrated budget framework for the operational $518 million expenditure plan, even though the  Secretariat was not able to give the same information for the $595.2 million scenario due to time constraints. The  Commission was assured that such information would be provided to the Executive Board at its 204th session as already  stipulated in document 39 C/6 Add. Noting an increase in the budget of the fellowships programme in the adjusted global  budget scenario, some members of the Commission underlined the importance of that programme for international  development and cooperation.
10.97 Prior to the debate on item 9.3, “Collection of Member States’ contributions”, the representative of the Director- General informed the Commission that as at the end of October 2017, 63 Member States or 32% of the total number of  Member States were not up-to-date with their contributions. As such, the cash position of the Organization would be in  deficit after October 2017 until the end of the year. That deficit could be covered by the Working Capital Fund in  November 2017, after which borrowing would be needed. The APX Commission was also informed of the impact of the  continued delays in payments of assessed contributions for the 2018-2019 biennium, concerning document 39 C/5,  which could require a budget freeze of $152 million. This would begin with a $76 million budget freeze as of 1 January
2018 in order to ensure that the Organization remained within its available cash flow.
10.98 The APX Commission reaffirmed that the payment of assessed contributions was a legal obligation and  expressed concern that continuing non-payment of contributions by some Member States had an adverse impact for  programme delivery, including for UNESCO’s contributions to the implementation of the 2030 Agenda. They noted that  programme implementation had already been impacted in the implementation of the contingency plan in 2017. The  Commission introduced an amendment to the draft resolution, suggesting that a strategic discussion be held at the  Executive Board meetings before the preparation of document 40 C/5, about the overall financial situation of UNESCO,  and asking the Secretariat to prepare a background paper to that end. Several Member States sought clarification on the  contents of such a background document and inquired about possible measures that UNESCO could adopt to secure a  renewed stable financial situation for assessed contributions, including strengthened procedures in respect of assessed  contributions in arrears. The representative of the Director-General explained that potential measures could only be  provided after the comparative analysis of the experiences of other United Nations agencies. The Commission sought  confirmation that such measures would be in alignment with practices within the United Nations system.
10.99 In endorsing the proposed amendments to the draft resolution, the Commission decided that references to the
2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development and the Addis Ababa Action Agenda be maintained only in the preamble part  of the draft resolution, because UNESCO’s action was much broader than those defined in those internationally-agreed  documents. It was felt that references to the 2030 Agenda and the Addis Ababa Action Agenda in the operational part  could create confusion as to the item related to “Collection of Member States’ contributions”. Questioning that argument,  some Member States expressed their disagreement with the deletion of the references from the operational part of the  resolution.
10.100 I think you will all be happy to hear that this is the end of my report on the work of the APX Commission. I cannot  however conclude without extending my profound gratitude to all those who have contributed to the success of the  Commission’s deliberations. Let me start by expressing my most sincere thanks and appreciations to you, Madam  President, for your solid support and to the work of the APX Commission and for your wise guidance and leadership in  the current session of the General Conference.
10.101 I wish to thank the Vice-Chairpersons of the APX Commission, Ambassador María Teresa Lizaranzu Perinat  (Spain), Ambassador Marjutka Hafner (Slovenia), Ambassador Maria Theresa Lazaro (Philippines), Dr Hamda Alsulaiti  (Qatar), as well as our Rapporteur, Mr Marthinus van Schalkwyk (South Africa). I would also like to take this opportunity  to express my deep appreciation to His Excellency, Mr Stefan Krawielicki, Ambassador and Permanent Delegate of  Germany, who ably chaired the working group on voting rights. I should also express my thanks to the Chairperson of the  Headquarters Committee, His Excellency Mr Ali Zainal, Ambassador and Permanent Delegate of Qatar, as well as to  Mr Didier Migaud, External Auditor of UNESCO, for their presentations to the APX Commission.
10.102 In continuing to express my gratitude, for their invaluable assistance, I would also like extend my thanks to: the  Director-General, the Deputy Director-General, and the representatives of the Director-General: the Director of the  Bureau of Strategic Planning; the Director of the Bureau of Human Resources Management; the Chief Financial Officer;  the Director of the Bureau for the Management of Support Services, and the Legal Adviser. The Secretary of the General  Conference, Ms Karima Bekri-Lisner and the Deputy Secretary, Mr Luis Salamanques, Ms Anna Bonetti, as well as their  team of professionals who provided us with all necessary support that also deserve our thanks. I should like to thank the  teams of interpreters and translators, conference room clerks, typists and technicians in charge of the support services  on whom we depended for the smooth running of our deliberations. Thanks also to the document production unit, the  dynamic pace of the Commission initially produced challenges, but they ably came through as always.
10.103 Madam President, it would be remiss of me not to pay tribute to my colleagues, members of the APX  Commissions and their alternates, for their incisive contributions. While they were determined advocates of their  positions, they made every effort to remain open to diverse and varied views and opinions. We held highly spirited
337  sessions, at times tense but never dull, always with a view to reach solutions and this is what resulted in adopting the  draft resolutions, which are now recommended to you in document 39 C/70. I also take this opportunity to thank  UNESCO Member States for the support they provided me as Chairperson of the Finance and Administrative  Commission of the Executive Board and during our membership in the Executive Board during two mandates. Finally, I  would especially like to thank my team – and here I go off script and it will be very fast – first I would like to give my  special gratitude to Mr Sachin Bhatt, brilliant Secretary of the APX Commission, renaissance man from the ancient lands  of India, for his steadfast support and penchant for finding excellent quotes to spice up my oral report. His brain is filled  with financial knowledge; his heart is filled with poetry. To my dream team.   (The speaker continues in Spanish)
(10.104) (translation from the Spanish): I give thanks to my dear colleague, Ana Iglesias Morel of Spain, for her  professionalism, her meticulous and orderly work, and for helping me to turn on my computer, always with a smile. Thank you  also for assisting me in the FA Commission. I will miss working with you. Thanks also to Ms Virginie Paolini, a new member of  my dream team, to whom I am grateful for her professionalism and excellent work. Many thanks to Mr Bobir Tukhtabayev, for  his detailed and consistent work that contributed to the drafting of an excellent oral report.
(10.105) And as always, thanks to my Aztec warriors, Juan Frías Velatti, with whom I planned the playlist of music that  welcomed members at the beginning of each session of the APX Commission, and who also helped to draw up the scenarios  so that I would not be lost in the agenda; I thank him too for his kind availability in the work of the FA Commission throughout  the biennium; and thanks also to Juan Pablo Ramírez Miranda, who co-wrote many pages of scenarios, kept me organized in  the work of the Commission, and who also accompanied me during the FA Commission, welcoming me every morning with a  smile.
(10.106)  And last but not least, I wish to thank and pay tribute to the distinguished and fabulous Mr Eero Porko, from the  Viking lands of Finland, who organized my dream team for the FA Commission during the entire biennium and with whom I  form a formidable duo. Thank you dear Mr Porko, we will see you again soon. I learned a lot from your Nordic discipline and I  am sure that you also learned much from my Salvadoran improvisation, which I know you do not like very much. Thank you  very much for your attention.
11. La Présidente :   Merci, Madame la Présidente, pour votre rapport pour le moins exhaustif, et la compétence avec laquelle vous- même et votre équipe avez mené les travaux de votre Commission. Et maintenant, y a-t-il des commentaires ou des  suggestions sur ce rapport ? Monsieur l’Ambassadeur de France, vous avez la parole.
12.1 France :  Merci beaucoup, Madame la Présidente. Et merci d’abord, évidemment, à notre Présidente de la Commission  APX, Mme Sol de Pool, qui a d’ailleurs aussi assumé ces fonctions au sein du Conseil exécutif. Je dois dire qu’elle l’a  fait avec énormément de compétence et de détermination. Je voulais commencer par là, même si je trouve que nous  avons un peu trop tendance à nous congratuler les uns les autres, et peut-être un petit peu trop longtemps. Nous  sommes, délégations ou Secrétariat, tous au service d’une œuvre : celle de l’UNESCO et de sa mission. Ceci dit, je tiens  quand même à saluer Mme Sol de Pool pour l’excellence de son travail.
12.2 Je tiens aussi à saluer le travail de notre Commissaire aux comptes, en l’occurrence, la Cour des comptes  française, et son premier Président, M. Migaud, qui est venu à chaque session du Conseil exécutif, ainsi que son équipe,  qui a rendu 130 rapports d’audit. Cent-trente rapports d’audit. Si vous saviez tout ce qu’il y a dans ces rapports d’audit,  que bien peu d’entre nous ont lus, eh bien, vous apprendriez des solutions, certaines assez simples, d’autres plus  compliquées évidemment à mettre en œuvre, pour réformer notre Organisation. Il y a donc là, vraiment, chez le  Commissaire aux comptes, une mine d’informations dont nous devons nous servir. Et j’en profite pour saluer le Canada,  qui prend pour les années qui viennent la même charge, qui est une charge tout à fait essentielle, non seulement  d’évaluation mais aussi de conseil, de l’Organisation.
12.3 Mais ce n’était pas pour cela, Madame la Présidente, que je prenais la parole. C’était pour vous faire part d’une  forme de préoccupation que nous avions déjà exprimée au sein de la Commission – et Mme Sol de Pool s’en est fait  l’écho dans son rapport très exact – au sujet du point 10.1 de ce rapport : Statut et règlement du personnel  (paragraphe 31, page 54 ), tout au moins pour ce qui concerne le premier point, c’est à dire la retraite. Nous sommes
338  bien évidemment face à un double souci, qui est à la fois, d’une part, de conserver le plus possible un certain nombre de  membres du personnel, qui ont fait un travail tout à fait remarquable, de conserver leur expérience, de leur permettre de  travailler un petit peu plus longtemps, puis, d’autre part, compte tenu également de la structure financière qui n’est pas  très bonne, de renouveler une partie du personnel dans les mois qui viennent. Le renouveler, en quelque sorte,  naturellement. Et il me semble que cette recommandation de l’Assemblée générale des Nations Unies de 2015, qui est  une recommandation générale et tout à fait utile - d’ailleurs nous la soutenons dans son principe - vaut certainement  pour des organisations beaucoup plus grosses que les nôtres au sein du système des Nations Unies, où nous jouons, en  quelque sorte, à la marge. C’est-à-dire que lorsque vous avez des institutions comme le PNUD, comme l’OMS, etc., qui  en plus sont dans une meilleure situation financière que nous, vous avez la possibilité, effectivement, de satisfaire le  personnel.
12.4 Je trouve donc que ne pas avoir suivi les recommandations du Secrétariat, qui étaient des recommandations de  bon sens, qui visaient à attendre le 1er janvier 2020 pour mettre en œuvre cette mesure, n’est pas très raisonnable. Cette  décision n’est pas très raisonnable pour une autre raison également : c’est que nous savons tous ici qu’il y a une  surreprésentation du Groupe I, et plus particulièrement des Européens, au sein de l’Institution qu’est l’UNESCO, et que  cette possibilité d’attendre un peu avant la remise en cause de la mesure est une possibilité de s’ouvrir beaucoup plus à  du sang nouveau, et à du sang venant de l’ensemble des régions de notre planète, puisque l’UNESCO est évidemment,  et c’est ce qui fait toute sa force, une Organisation universelle.
12.5 Voilà pourquoi, Madame la Présidente, je me permets de revenir sur ce sujet sans vouloir relancer de très longs  débats, ni évidemment revenir sur les quatre heures de travail de la Commission sur ce sujet. Mais je souhaiterais  simplement que, comme nous en avons la possibilité, la plénière modifie de trois chiffres, simplement, la décision  relative au point 10.1 et remplace de nouveau 2018 par 2020, comme cela avait été proposé initialement par le  Secrétariat. Je vous remercie, Madame la Présidente.
13. La Présidente :    Merci beaucoup. Madame l’Ambassadeur de l’Espagne, vous avez la parole.
(14.1) Spain (translation from the Spanish):   I too express congratulations on the report submitted by the APX Commission, which is very complex; when one  listens to the full report, it is clear how all the elements concerning the programme and budget are related to one another and  fit together. That is why I do not intend to break the consensus, particularly as I attended all the meetings of this fundamental  Commission, but only wish to point out that, when discussing the matter that was just raised by the representative of France,  we must take into account the other documents that we have approved.
(14.2) In this Commission, we also approved a human resources strategy in order to strengthen capacities, align with the
2030 Agenda and improve geographic representation and gender equality, adjusting it to the decisions taken in terms of staff.  Although the resolution that was adopted by the United Nations General Assembly indicates a date, there are other  organizations, such as the World Health Organization, the World Intellectual Property Organization and the International Civil  Aviation Organization, which have proposed other dates, and the Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations,  which has not proposed any. Why is this? Because exceptional circumstances are taken into account. In this sense, the  decision limits the ability to solve mobility problems, fill posts and improve geographic representation and gender equality. This  is another reason why I am taking the floor: it is true that there were discussions in the Commission - and even Spain  proposed the intermediate date of 2019 - which had enabled consensus in other organizations. Unfortunately, however, the  decision had been submitted to us by the Secretariat without prior discussion in the Executive Board, which, as I have said,  might have allowed us to analyse its impact on other decisions that have been adopted.
(14.3) Without wishing to dwell too long on this issue, I think that all of the resolutions that have been approved by the  Commission, also the one considering the budget, and taking into account the difficult financial situation, which even required  the freezing of $76 million, as indicated by the Chairperson of the Commission, must be seen as a whole. Calling upon  common sense and taking into account the general situation of the Organization, above all to ensure legal security for the  Organization’s staff, who are civil servants working not for the interests of one country or another but for the general interest of  the Organization, I endorse the statement made by the representative of France. Thank you, Madam President.
15. La Présidente :    Merci, Madame. Et maintenant je donne la parole au Royaume-Uni, qui sera suivi de l’Algérie et de l’Afrique du  Sud. Le Royaume-Uni, vous avez la parole.
16. United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland:   Thank you, Madam President, and our warmest congratulations as well to the Chairperson of the APX  Commission for a very comprehensive report. I am going to keep this statement very short. The United Kingdom is very  clear that it would not like to reopen this item, and especially not change the date back to 2020. We believe that  implementation by 1 January 2018 is preferable, on the basis that the arguments and the evidence for postponing are not  sufficiently convincing to us. It is important to demonstrate that United Nations reform is consistent across all agencies,  and in this particular case I think that the provisions are relevant to UNESCO. We also thought that it was particularly  striking that both staff unions were opposed to this postponement as well. On that basis, we are obviously not opposed to  a consensus, and we would be very open-minded to consider a consensus, but it would be preferable to have  implementation from 1 January 2018. Thank you very much.
17. La Présidente :    Merci. Maintenant la parole est au représentant de l’Algérie.
18. Algérie :    Je vous remercie, Madame la Présidente. Tout d’abord, permettez-moi de féliciter notre Présidente de la  Commission APX pour le travail remarquable qui a été effectué, ainsi que pour le rapport, certes, comme elle l’a bien  précisé, kilométrique, mais qui a été tellement, tellement instructif. Et mes remerciements et nos félicitations s’adressent  aussi au Secrétariat de la Commission APX, qui nous a vraiment soutenu lors de ces discussions parfois pour le moins  tendues. Et c’est à ce sujet justement qu’il serait, pour notre délégation, extrêmement délicat de rouvrir un point au sein  d’une Commission qui a conduit autant de débats et qui a établi des records, vous l’avez évoqué Madame la Présidente.  Il serait donc peut-être sage, pour ne pas pousser les discussions plus loin, de s’en tenir au consensus tel qu’il a été  adopté lors des commissions. Nous ne sommes pas contraints au consensus, mais nous sommes plutôt favorables à  une décision apaisée et à ce que l’on puisse aller de l’avant. Merci, Madame la Présidente.
19. La Présidente :    Merci. L’Afrique du sud a la parole.
20. South Africa:   Thank you, Madam President. We would also like to extend our thanks to the Chairperson of the APX  Commission who did a wonderful job, and we appreciated her leadership on very difficult issues, issues that took a long  time to discuss. Madam President, coming to the request by France and also supported by Spain, our delegation  obviously fully supports their right to open any issue, as we would also assume the same right for ourselves to open any  issue. However, we are a little surprised that after the lengthy discussion, which I was personally involved in as well, and  all the debates that we did undertake, and also the factors that were mentioned, that there is a feeling that opening up  this issue is going to move us forward. Unfortunately, our delegation was quite clear in the discussions that we see  UNESCO as fully part of the United Nations system and that the reasons for extending the implementation of the change  to the regulation are not supported. We did not go along with 2019, but we would be very happy to have this debate in an  open forum such as this. There were a number of issues that we raised, and there are other issues that have come to  light since we made this decision that we would be happy to raise in this forum. We have a number of questions for the  Secretariat that we could pose. So we are in your hands. We are fully ready to undertake this debate and we will tackle it  as long as possible so that we get everybody’s views. We are obviously against changing this, but we are fully ready for  this debate. Thank you.
21. La Présidente :    La parole est à la Hongrie, suivie des États-Unis.
22. Hungary:   Thank you very much Madam President for giving me the floor. I would also like to join the others in  congratulating the Chairperson of the APX Commission for her formidable work. I will be very brief in the interests of time  but I would just like to agree with what has been said before me by the distinguished delegate of the United Kingdom,  Algeria and South Africa. We also do respect the right of everyone to reopen this issue. So should we have a debate we  are going to have interventions, because during the deliberations in the APX Commission we only took the floor for a little  time because as has been said there was a very lengthy debate. Let me say, however, that we still favour the  implementation in 2018 for the sake of coherence and also because we believe that the conditions of service of the staff  of UNESCO have to conform with those of other United Nations organizations. Thank you, Madam President.
23. La Présidente :    Parole sera donnée aux États-Unis, suivis du Nigeria, de l’Australie, des Pays-Bas et d’Oman. Les États-Unis,  vous avez la parole.
24. United States of America:   Thank you very much Madam President. Our heartfelt congratulations and thanks to the Chairperson of the APX  Commission for her report. Of course, the United States, as our South African colleague has noted, supports debate if  that is what this body wants, but we do note that this has been well-trod ground and the subject of a debate of many  hours. As my Algerian colleague rightly noted, it is a highly delicate situation to reopen, and quite frankly I do not know  that we will come to any different conclusion. But if people feel strongly about it, it is of course their right and we will  support it. That said, the United States for reasons already articulated primarily by the United Kingdom does advocate  staying with the decision as it is currently stated with the 2018 benchmark as being crucial to support system-wide United  Nations reform. The fact that the staff associations support this as well does weigh heavily in favour of remaining with the
2018 deadline as well. Thank you.
25. La Présidente :    Merci. Le Nigéria a la parole.
26. Nigeria:   Thank you very much Madam President. I thought I would never have the opportunity to congratulate the  Chairperson of the APX Commission. Hope springs eternal – this is my opportunity. Thank you very much for work that  was very well done. It was a painful position to be in as Chairperson of the APX Commission. As somebody wiser than  me has just said, this has been a very thoughtfully handled commission. I have been in this Organization for quite a few  years and I have not seen many better in terms of the thoroughness with which all the issues we dealt with were handled.  So I was surprised when this was suddenly brought upon us. I saw many mouths open, but as South Africa said, we are  ready if it is necessary for us to debate this. There are some of us who, out of consideration for the Commission, and  particularly for its Chairperson, refuse to take part in that debate for any length of time. But if you have to do it now, we  will do it, and if we have to eventually go to a vote, not only to defend but also to protect the achievement of the  Commission, we will do so. I absolutely agree with South Africa, with every word and every unsaid word. Thank you very  much.
27. La Présidente :    Ce sera l’Australie, les Pays-Bas, Oman et Cuba, et après je ferme la liste des orateurs. Merci.
28. Australia:   Thank you, Madam President. Australia also wishes to extend its congratulations to the Chairperson of the APX  Commission for a fantastic job in chairing that debate. As a number of other delegations have already said, the APX  Commission debated this issue at great length. We have heard and listened carefully to the arguments in favour of  changing the date, but Australia remains unconvinced that those arguments are sufficient to justify moving away from the  date of 2018. We recognize the potential increase in short-term liabilities, but we see an overwhelming merit in the  longer-term savings for the United Nations family and the importance of remaining consistent across the United Nations  system. UNESCO is an important organization within the United Nations system and it is vital that it remains consistent  with those decisions. While we recognize the right of any country to open this issue to debate, we question whether there  will be much value in doing so. Thank you.
29. La Présidente :    Les Pays-Bas ont la parole.
30. Netherlands:   Thank you, Madam President. The Netherlands would also like to congratulate and thank the Chairperson of the  APX Commission for her excellent leadership and for this very exhaustive and clear report on our very long deliberations.  Thank you very much for that. Like the seven previous speakers, we also think that UNESCO should align itself with  United Nations reform efforts. It is very important. We also do not want to take away the freedom of staff to stay on until  the age of 65 if they wish to do so, especially if our colleagues in New York think that that is the way that the United  Nations system should conduct its business. Therefore we think that the date of implementation should remain 1 January
2018 as we decided at the conclusion of our very lengthy debate. Thank you.
31. La Présidente :    Merci. Oman, vous avez la parole.
32. Oman:   Thank you, Madam President. Our thanks go to the Chairperson of the APX Commission who worked extremely  hard to reach consensus. Madam President, this item has been discussed at length in the APX Commission and the  discussion was long. It took us over two days to reach an agreement in the Commission. Reopening items in the plenary,  after they have been agreed upon in the Commission, in Oman’s opinion should be left for issues that are highly critical  and ought to be based on a solid and principled reasoning which does not undermine the values of UNESCO. But if we  have to reopen it, then we will. Of course it would have been better had this item been discussed or presented at the  Executive Board, but this was not done, unfortunately. However, consensus was still reached in the APX Commission, so  we should respect it. The United Nations is making great efforts towards reform of the United Nations system, so as an  agency, UNESCO needs to align with the United Nations reform, and yet we are now choosing not to. I said this in the  FA Commission and I repeat it here: we cannot pick and choose depending on what changes we adhere to or not, unless  there is a solid argument. This measure is not only called for by the United Nations but also by the staff itself. We  understand the necessity to make savings. However, savings should not come at the cost of the staff. We have been  reviewing the human resources strategy to make UNESCO a good working environment and we should therefore be  consistent with what we ask for. Thank you very much.
33. La Présidente :    Merci. Et maintenant je donne la parole à Cuba, qui est notre dernier orateur.
(34.1) Cuba (translation from the Spanish):   I also wish to extend thanks and congratulations to the Chairperson of the APX Commission. I wish to reiterate that we  are all here, as we were asked by her many times, to read the extensive report, the great length of which was predicted from  the start. It is curious, because this agenda item was initially proposed for examination without debate. It seems, however, that  the extensive discussion we had in the Commission was not enough and the matter now arouses interest from certain Member  States. We believe that the plenary is indeed the place where we can reopen matters if they have not been fully discussed or  one State or another has a point to analyse.
(34.2) The debate on this issue was extensive and very delicate; we all had the possibility to take the floor and the opinion of  the Organization’s staff was also central. As we have often said, the staff has been greatly exposed to and impacted by the  financial crisis and non-payment of contributions to the Organization by Member States. That is why our delegation considered  it very important to know the staff’s position.
(34.3) We also consider that it was a consensus decision, which foresaw not only the possibility of extending the retirement  age to 65, but also that of allowing those who voluntarily wished to retire before 65 to do so, which was one of the issues that  worried some of the delegations. We therefore reiterate that the decision adopted should be respected and we wish it to  remain as approved by the APX Commission. Thank you very much.
35. La Présidente :    Merci. J’ai bien écouté vos différentes déclarations. Je comprends, pour l’essentiel, que la réouverture du débat  ne recueille pas votre consensus. Je rappelle que le débat sur la question de l’âge de la retraite à 65 ans a fait l’objet  d’un débat long, intense, au sein de la Commission APX, et que ce débat a finalement abouti à un consensus. Donc, je  propose d’adopter en l’état le rapport de la Commission APX, étant entendu que les déclarations des uns et des autres  seront consignées dans les procès-verbaux de cette session. Par conséquent, puis-je considérer que la Conférence  générale prend note du rapport de la Commission APX et adopte les projets de résolution proposés dans le document
39 C/70, sous réserve des décisions que la Conférence pourrait prendre lors de l’adoption de la résolution portant  ouverture de crédits pour 2018-2019 ? Je donne la parole à S. E. l’Ambassadeur de France.
36.1 France :   Merci, Madame la Présidente. J’approuve ce que vous venez juste de dire et me rallierai certainement au  consensus. Je voulais juste faire quelques remarques à la suite des interventions des uns et des autres. Premier point, il  me semble que nous aurons de nouveau besoin de nous pencher sur cette question, et que ce serait une bonne chose  effectivement de recommander à notre nouveau Conseil exécutif de traiter de ce sujet lors de ses sessions futures,  l’année prochaine.
36.2 Deuxième point, j’ai écouté avec beaucoup d’attention l’intervention américaine et j’y vois un signe  d’engagement, si je peux dire, vis-à-vis du futur de notre Organisation et de son travail, et j’y suis sensible.  Troisièmement, j’ai bien écouté ce qu’ont dit le représentant du Royaume-Uni et le représentant des Pays-Bas. Mon  pays aussi, la France, est très favorable à la réforme des Nations Unies. Il nous semble qu’un des enjeux de cette  réforme est aussi de faire rentrer dans le système technocratique des Nations Unies et de ses différentes institutions  spécialisées du sang neuf, du sang, comme je le disais, de jeunes compétences, et des jeunes compétences qui  viennent en particulier des pays du sud, comme on le dit parfois un peu rapidement.
36.3 Voilà donc ce que nous envisagions, sur 2018-2020, et qui allait dans le sens d’une certaine réforme des  Nations Unies. Mais je comprends aussi l’argument selon lequel l’UNESCO étant un élément d’un système plus vaste, il  ne faut pas qu’elle se singularise par rapport à ce système d’ensemble. Merci, Madame la Présidente.
37.1 La Présidente :    Merci Excellence. Nous prenons note de votre déclaration qui, comme je l’ai dit auparavant, sera consignée  dans les procès-verbaux de cette session. Maintenant, pouvons-nous considérer que la Conférence générale prend note  du rapport de la Commission APX et l’adopte, sous réserve des décisions que la Conférence pourrait prendre lors de
342  l’adoption de la résolution portant ouverture de crédits pour 2018-2019 ? Il en est ainsi décidé. Je vous remercie. La  Délégation de la Chine voudrait avoir la parole.
(38.1)  China (translation from the Chinese)    Thank you Madam President. Thank you Madam Chairperson of the APX Commission for your tireless efforts to  ensure that the Commission accomplishes its work as scheduled. China respects the principle of consensus and so shall not  oppose the adopted resolution. However, the Chinese side would like to share the following views with regard to item 8.3,  “Draft Regulatory Framework Regarding Associations, Centres and Clubs for UNESCO”, and would hope that the General  Conference takes note of them.
(38.2) Firstly, National Commissions for UNESCO should play an essential role in overseeing the activities of associations for  UNESCO in their respective countries and in enhancing the alignment of these activities with the purposes and functions of  UNESCO. However, given the cooperative nature of the relationship between National Commissions and associations for  UNESCO, any disagreements that arise during the cooperation shall be resolved through consultations of the Commissions  and associations concerned, rather than handing them over to UNESCO, as the latter does not have a statutory function of  mediation in disagreements between the two sides.
(38.3) Secondly, associations for UNESCO are established under the laws of their respective countries and their titles  endorsed by authorities concerned in accordance with domestic laws. That means that, while the associations are obliged to  comply with relevant regulations of UNESCO on the management of non-governmental organizations, the naming of the  associations shall depend on national situations, be it “Home for UNESCO”, “Centre for UNESCO” or “Club for UNESCO” and  so on. It is not suitable for UNESCO to lay down rules or regulations thereon. The general principle should be that UNESCO  encourages these associations or centres to promote UNESCO’s ideas and help maximize its visibility without prejudice to  their independence. Thank you, Madam President.
39. La Présidente :    Merci, Monsieur le représentant de la Chine. Soyez assuré que vos remarques et votre déclaration seront  consignées dans les procès-verbaux de cette session.  Report of the Legal Committee (LEG) on item 5.1  Rapport du Comité juridique (LEG) sur le point 5.1  Informe del Comité Jurídico (LEG) sobre el punto 5.1.  Доклад Юридического комитета (LEG) по пункту 5.1
40. La Présidente :  Et maintenant, si vous le permettez, honorables délégués, nous allons terminer notre travail de ce matin par  l’examen du rapport du Comité juridique sur le point 5.1. Je me tourne maintenant vers S. E. M. Eisemann, Président de  ce Comité, afin qu’il nous présente ce rapport, contenu dans le document 39 C/86. Monsieur Eisemann, vous avez la  parole.
41.1 M. Eisemann (Président du Comité juridique) :    Merci, Madame la Présidente. Madame la Présidente de la Conférence générale, Monsieur le Président du  Conseil exécutif, Madame la Directrice générale, Mesdames et Messieurs, tout en m’efforçant d’exposer mon rapport  avant 13 heures, permettez-moi de vous présenter le fruit du travail du Comité juridique contenu dans le document
39 C/86. Ce neuvième rapport du Comité juridique porte sur l’examen du point 5.1, et, plus précisément, sur le projet de  résolution tel qu’adopté par la Commission APX, au terme de ses débats sur ce point.
41.2 Tout d’abord, le Comité juridique a rappelé que les aspects substantiels de ce projet de résolution relevaient de  la Commission APX et qu’en conséquence, le Comité juridique ne devait pas se prononcer sur les amendements  apportés par ladite Commission aux recommandations du Groupe de travail à composition non-limitée sur la  gouvernance, les procédures et les méthodes de travail des organes directeurs de l’UNESCO. Le Comité juridique a  donc examiné les aspects exclusivement juridiques du projet de résolution, et a apporté des modifications à la  proposition d’amendement de l’article 82 du Règlement intérieur de la Conférence générale faisant l’objet de la  deuxième Partie du projet de résolution. Comme vous vous en souviendrez, cet amendement porte sur l’établissement  d’un nouveau Groupe de travail au sein de la Commission administrative, chargé d’examiner les communications  invoquant les dispositions de l’article IV.C, paragraphe 8 (c) de l’Acte constitutif, bien en amont de la Conférence
343  générale, et ce afin de permettre à cette dernière de se prononcer sur la délicate question du droit de vote dès le début  de ses travaux. Vous pouvez trouver le texte de cet amendement, tel que proposé par le Comité juridique, au 4e  paragraphe du document 39 C/86.
41.3 Je me permets de saisir cette occasion pour vous rappeler que, par ailleurs, le Comité juridique a examiné huit  autres points de l’ordre du jour de la Conférence générale, y compris les deux points additionnels qui ont été ajoutés par  le Bureau de la Conférence générale lors de sa première réunion. À cet égard, je voudrais remercier Madame la  Présidente de la Conférence générale, ainsi que les membres du Bureau, d’avoir, par l’ajout de ces deux points,  souligné l’importance que soient transmis au Comité juridique les points de l’ordre du jour de la Conférence générale  présentant des aspects juridiques. Bien évidemment, pour ces huit autres points, je n’ai pas manqué de transmettre les  conclusions du Comité juridique aux présidents des commissions concernées, à savoir les commissions APX, Éducation,  et Sciences sociales et humaines, avant l’examen de ces points au sein de leurs commissions, et ce afin d’assurer le  bon fonctionnement de la Conférence générale. Qu’il me soit permis à cette occasion de remercier les présidents de ces  commissions d’avoir fait en sorte que soient respectés les avis ainsi formulés par le Comité juridique lors de l’examen de  ces huit points au sein de leurs commissions respectives.
41.4 En conclusion, Madame la Présidente, j’aimerais, avec votre permission, exprimer mes vifs remerciements à  tous ceux qui, par leur dévouement et leur compétence, ont permis au Comité juridique de s’acquitter de la tâche qui lui  était confiée, et en particulier au rapporteur Mme Christine Mkwenda, représentante du Kenya. Je n’oublie pas non plus  les vice-présidents M. Meshal Hayat, représentant du Koweït, et M. Eduardo Leoni Patron Costas, représentant de  l’Argentine. Je souhaiterais, bien évidemment, également remercier Madame la Conseillère juridique et son équipe de la  Section des conventions et recommandations, et tout particulièrement M. Trasancos, qui a assuré le Secrétariat de notre  Comité, de leur coopération. Je vous remercie, Madame la Présidente.
42.1 La Présidente :   Merci, M. Eisemann pour votre présentation extrêmement synthétique et exhaustive. Mesdames et Messieurs, y  a-t-il des commentaires ou des suggestions sur ce rapport ? Comme vous le savez, la résolution contenue dans  paragraphe 4 de ce rapport amende la résolution contenue dans le Rapport de la Commission APX sur le point 5.1 que  nous venons tout juste d’adopter. Puis-je considérer que la Conférence générale prend note du rapport du Comité  juridique, et adopte le projet de résolution proposé dans le document 39 C/86 ? Je vous remercie. Il en est ainsi décidé.
42.2 Excellences, Mesdames et Messieurs, ceci nous amène à la fin de notre travail pour ce matin. La prochaine  séance plénière de cet après-midi, sera, comme vous le savez, consacrée à l’installation de la Directrice générale de  l’UNESCO, Mme Audrey Azoulay. Je vous invite donc à vous présenter dans la salle I à 15 heures précises. Je vous  souhaite bon appétit, la séance est close.  The meeting rose at 1.05 p.m.  La séance est levée à 13 h 05  Se levanta la sesión a las 13.05  Заседание закрывается в 13.05  بعد الظهر ١,٠٥رفعت اجللسة يف الساعة    会议于 13 时 05 分结束