1. Le Président :  Bonjour, Mesdames et Messieurs, je déclare ouverte la onzième séance plénière de la Conférence générale,  qui sera consacrée aux déclarations nationales. Étant donné que nous avons une longue liste d’orateurs ce matin, et que  nous sommes un samedi, puis-je réitérer l’appel à respecter le temps accordé à chaque déclaration ? J’ai le plaisir de  donner la parole pour la première intervention à S. E. Mme Nina Obuljen Koržinek, Ministre de la culture de la Croatie.
2.1 Ms Obuljen Koržinek (Croatia):   President of the General Conference, Mr Chairperson of the Executive Board, Director-General, honourable  delegates, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to begin by congratulating the President of the General Conference on  behalf of the delegation of the Republic of Croatia on her election as President. Croatia would also like to thank Ms Irina  Bokova for clearly defining priorities and implementing reforms over the past eight challenging years, as well as  strengthening the role of UNESCO within the United Nations system. We highly appreciate her leadership and  achievements. We would also like to congratulate Ms Audrey Azoulay on her nomination by the Executive Board as  candidate for the position of Director-General and assure her that we are ready to provide full support in her future work.  We hope that the circumstances which have led to the financial crisis of the Organization will improve and that the  important issues burdening the work of the Organization will be dealt with through the cooperation of all its Member  States.
2.2 We believe that it is important to confirm the role of UNESCO with other bodies and agencies of the United  Nations and reaffirm its leadership in the areas of its competence, namely education, science, culture and  communication. UNESCO plays an important role in translating development goals into concrete action, while ensuring  compliance with the efforts of the entire United Nations system. The 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development will lead  all United Nations entities, including UNESCO, to prioritize their efforts. As part of the 2030 Agenda implementation, the  European Union and its Member States have agreed on a joint vision of our development policy – the European  consensus on development. In this respect, it is very important for UNESCO to continue its reform efforts to further  strengthen its capacity to support Member States in the implementation of the 2030 Agenda. Croatia expresses strong  support for the normative work of the Organization. As a member of the 2005 Convention on the Protection and  Promotion of the Diversity of Cultural Expressions, we are particularly pleased to be re-elected to its Intergovernmental  Committee.
2.3 Croatia will continue contributing to the activities of the cultural diversity fund and promoting cooperation for  sustainable development. We highlight the importance of implementing the guidelines for the development of culture in  the digital environment, with the primary focus on protecting artists and the diversity of cultural content, emphasizing the  importance of protecting human rights, in particular freedom of expression, artistic freedom and gender equality. We  support further development of the UNESCO Culture for Development Indicators (CDIS). In cooperation with the  UNESCO Office in Venice, the Croatian Commission for UNESCO has conducted a study of CDIS implementation in  Croatia. We believe that this project will further contribute to promoting policies and strategies aimed at further  strengthening production, dissemination, distribution and access to diversity of cultural expressions.
2.4 Croatia is proud of its membership in the World Heritage Committee and will continue to work on the promotion  and preservation of world heritage, as well as its synergy with intangible heritage, as a platform for sustainable cultural  development. We also welcome the recent establishment of the Heritage Emergency Fund and the programme of  activities carried out through its support, especially because it has enabled UNESCO to respond quickly and effectively  to crises resulting from armed conflicts and disasters caused by natural and human-made hazards around the world. We  welcome the endorsement by the Executive Board of the action plan related to the implementation of the Strategy for the  Reinforcement of UNESCO’s Action Plan for the Protection of Culture and the Promotion of Cultural Pluralism in the  Event of Armed Conflict. We welcome also the unanimous support for the United Nations Security Council  resolution 2347 (2017) for the protection of heritage, the first ever resolution adopted by the Security Council focusing on  cultural heritage. As a Member State of the European Union (EU), Croatia is contributing to the recently launched EU  project on the preservation of cultural diversity and heritage in emergency situations. We are looking forward to working  closely with UNESCO on the European Year of Cultural Heritage 2018.
2.5 As the third signatory of the 2001 Convention on the Protection of the Underwater Cultural Heritage, Croatia  established the International Centre for Underwater Archaeology in Zadar to promote education and capacity building in  the field of conservation and restoration of underwater finds. We also recognize the crucial role of education in achieving  multiple goals across the 2030 Agenda. We underline the role of education in combating violent extremism and  promoting development, security and human rights, and welcome international cooperation in the field of open education  resources. Croatia is implementing a series of projects aimed at increasing the digital competencies of participants in the  education system, helping them to develop a multidisciplinary approach and acquire twenty-first century skills. One of the  projects in this field at the national level is the “e-School” project, which provides for overall digitalization of the education  system. At the national level, the Government is emphasizing the implementation of the education, science and
219  technology strategy and curricular reform as a priority. The ultimate goal of improved curricula is to ensure that students  are prepared for the challenges arising from the challenges of today.
2.6 Ladies and gentlemen, let me mention that we are aware that violence against journalists and impunity for such  crimes remains one of the greatest challenges to freedom of expression worldwide, with particular threats faced by  women journalists. Protecting and promoting freedom of expression, including media freedom, goes to the core of  UNESCO’s mandate. We are determined to support UNESCO in keeping its role of champion in promoting the safety of  journalists, which constitutes an indispensable precondition to freedom of expression and the media. We welcome the  global report on world trends in freedom of expression and media development, which highlights key changes in the  media landscape over the past few years, such as spreading unverified news, increased cyber harassment and hate  speech.
2.7 Croatia and the Croatian Commission for UNESCO actively cooperate with all countries in Europe and the world  and would like to continue supporting the role of the UNESCO Office in Venice in fostering cooperation in central and  south-east Europe. In this respect, we wish to highlight the successful organization of a number of conferences, expert  meetings and ministerial conferences, as well as a number of other major and smaller initiatives aimed at ensuring the  continuity of cooperation and synergy of all current activities and the promotion of UNESCO’s goals. In the forthcoming  two-year period we hope to expand the scope of regional cooperation in Europe and beyond. UNESCO should regain its  position on the international scene and reinforce its responsible multilateral governance focused on young generations,  education, culture, science and sustainable development. We need more than ever a strong, independent, dynamic,  innovative and digitized UNESCO as a global forum for debate and dialogue, which will tackle all relevant issues of  humanity, ensuring social justice and preservation of our planet. Thank you very much for your attention.
3. Le Président :    Merci beaucoup, Excellence. Le prochain orateur est S. E. M. Nurul Islam Nahid, Ministre de l’éducation du  Bangladesh.
4.1 Mr Nahid (Bangladesh):   Mr President, Madam Director-General, Mr Chairperson of the Executive Board, Excellencies, ladies and  gentlemen, it is my great pleasure and honour to address the General Conference for the fourth time. At the outset, I  congratulate Her Excellency Ambassador Zohour Alaoui on her election as the President of the 39th session of the  General Conference. I would also like to convey our deep appreciation and thanks to you, Madam Director-General, for  your smart leadership and hard work that has taken UNESCO to a greater height. I wish you the best in your future  endeavours. I should also like to congratulate Ms Audrey Azoulay, the nominated Director-General of the Organization,  and assure her of our continuous support for UNESCO’s goals and ideals.
4.2 Mr President, Bangladesh is strongly committed to regional and global peace and has always been supportive of  all agendas for establishing world peace. We are one of the largest contributors of troops to the United Nations  peacekeeping mission. For Bangladesh, humanitarian considerations are of paramount importance. As a part of our  commitment to peace and humanity, Bangladesh is currently sheltering about one million forcibly displaced Rohingya  nationals from Myanmar. The solution to this mammoth humanitarian crisis rests with the Government of Myanmar. Our  Prime Minister, Sheikh Hasina, has laid down a five-point plan at the 72nd session of the United Nations General  Assembly for resolving the crisis. It is imperative that Myanmar takes back each of their nationals in the shortest possible  time.
4.3 Mr President, since its membership to UNESCO in 1972, Bangladesh has closely collaborated with UNESCO.  We have ratified almost all the important conventions of UNESCO. The historic speech of the father of our nation  Bangabandhu Sheikh Mujibur Rahman, delivered on 7 March 1971, has now been enlisted in UNESCO’s Memory of the  World Register. In February this year, Bangladesh successfully hosted the ministerial meeting of E-9 countries in Dhaka.  In the Dhaka Declaration, the E-9 countries, namely Brazil, China, Egypt, India, Indonesia, Mexico, Nigeria, Pakistan and  Bangladesh, reaffirmed our endorsement of the vision, principles, and targets laid out under Sustainable Development  Goal 4. As the current Chair of the E-9 Forum, I am happy to let you know that we have decided to put in place a system  to share our experience and learn from each other’s success. As these nine countries are home to more than half of the  total population of the world, their “small” achievements will have a big impact on global statistics.
4.4 Mr President, with the continuous support of UNESCO and international communities Bangladesh has achieved  remarkable success in the fields of girls’ education, gender parity, women’s empowerment, child mortality, resilience to  climate change impact, and so forth. To continue our meaningful engagement with UNESCO, Bangladesh has put  forward its candidature for elections to the Executive Board for the 2017-2021 term. With your valuable support, we  believe we will be able to contribute to the Executive Board in a constructive manner.
4.5 Madam President, Ms Irina Bokova compared UNESCO’s journey to the journey of the Greek mythical hero  Odysseus. We fully endorse that view, and with Penelope’s patience, we will wait to see Odysseus’ ship overcoming all  difficulties and braving all hurdles and icebergs to reach its destination. For the future of our children, we must ensure  that “soft power” wins and prevails. Thank you very much for your kind patience.
5. The President:    Thank you, Your Excellency. The next speaker is His Excellency, Mr Purli Agamuradov, Minister of Education of  Turkmenistan.
(6.1) M. Agamuradov (Turkménistan) (traduit du russe) :   Monsieur le Président, Madame la Directrice générale, Excellences, Mesdames et Messieurs, permettez-moi de  féliciter Mme Zohour Alaoui pour son élection à la présidence de la 39e session de la Conférence générale de l’UNESCO et de  souhaiter que les travaux de la présente session soient couronnés de succès. Permettez-moi également de remercier  S. E. Mme Irina Bokova pour le fructueux travail qu’elle a accompli en sa qualité de Directrice générale de l’UNESCO.
(6.2) Comme vous le savez, le Turkménistan, membre du Conseil exécutif de l’UNESCO, appuie la stratégie cohérente que  l’Organisation applique pour renforcer la coopération internationale dans les domaines de l’éducation, de la science et de la  culture. Le pays se félicite des nouvelles initiatives prises par l’UNESCO dans ses principaux domaines d’activité, y compris le  Plan d’action pour l’éducation adopté dans le cadre du Programme de développement durable à l’horizon 2030. Ce plan  permet, concrètement, d’assurer le leadership de l’UNESCO dans la mise en œuvre de l’ODD 4 et de l’agenda Éducation
2030 conformément au mandat que lui a confié la communauté internationale. C’est pour faire connaître les objectifs de  développement durable et former le personnel concerné à leur mise en œuvre que le Turkménistan a créé, en 2017, le Centre  éducatif et méthodologique pour le développement durable.
(6.3) Sous la direction de son Président, Gurbanguly Berdymukhamedov, le Turkménistan mène une politique étrangère  active et diversifiée, condition importante et nécessaire de réformes internes fondamentales. Les principales orientations sont  la réforme et la modernisation des secteurs de la science, de l’éducation et de la culture, facteurs essentiels du  développement social et économique du pays et de sa prospérité. Le Turkménistan a mis en place un système efficace de  protection et de vulgarisation du patrimoine culturel matériel et immatériel, dont une grande partie revêt une importance  mondiale, ce qui crée de vastes possibilités de développement du dialogue international. Le pays s’emploie activement à  améliorer son système éducatif pour développer la science dans l’enseignement supérieur pour la porter au niveau des pays  développés. Avec l’appui massif de l’État, il a été adopté, ces dernières années, une loi relative à l’éducation. Dans toutes les  régions du pays, il se construit de manière intensive des établissements préscolaires, des écoles secondaires et des  établissements d’enseignement supérieur. Pour améliorer la qualité et l’efficacité de l’enseignement, on utilise largement, dans  le système de formation, les technologies de l’information et de la communication les plus récentes, et l’on équipe les écoles  et les établissements d’enseignement supérieur de matériel informatique moderne et de moyens pédagogiques multimédias.
(6.4) Dans le cadre de la création d’une économie industrialisée dans le pays, on veillera en particulier à appuyer les  initiatives scientifiques et techniques. La politique de développement de l’éducation et de la science engagée et approuvée par  le Président du Turkménistan comprend le Programme national de développement socio-économique 2011-2030, le  Programme de développement de l’innovation 2015-2020, le Programme de formation de cadres scientifiques nationaux et  d’autres initiatives. Depuis l’indépendance du pays, le nombre d’institutions scientifiques a augmenté. Parmi eux figure le  Centre de technologie, complexe spécial réunissant des établissements de recherche et d’enseignement, d’autres entités,  ainsi que des instituts relevant de l’Académie des sciences du Turkménistan. On crée des conditions propres à appuyer et  encourager les jeunes talents dans les domaines de la science, de l’ingénierie et de la technologie. Il a été créé un Centre des  jeunes scientifiques. La coopération scientifique internationale des jeunes se développe aux fins de la mise en œuvre de  projets de recherche faisant appel à des technologies innovantes et aux méthodes scientifiques et techniques les plus  récentes.
(6.5) L’éducation de la jeune génération dans un esprit de respect mutuel et de respect des autres cultures s’effectue par  l’étude de la culture nationale à travers le prisme du dialogue international interculturel. À cet égard, on peut citer, par  exemple, le livre de notre Président intitulé « Turkménistan, cœur de la Grande route de la soie ». L’idée principale du livre est  de comprendre la position volontariste et constructive du Turkménistan neutre dans l’arène internationale à travers le prisme  de son parcours historique. L’analyse du phénomène de la Grande route de la soie, qui a joué un rôle important dans le  développement des liens économiques, diplomatiques, scientifiques et culturels entre l’Est et l’Ouest, justifie la participation du  Turkménistan, qui occupe une position géopolitique favorable, aux processus d’intégration de notre temps. L’année 2018,  dans notre pays, sera placée sous la devise « Le Turkménistan, cœur de la Grande route de la soie ». Nous sommes certains  que cela nous permettra, aux niveaux national, régional et international, de souligner à nouveau le rôle constructif de ce  phénomène, qui a grandement facilité le dialogue entre les deux grandes civilisations que sont l’Occident et l’Orient.
(6.6) Monsieur le Président, le Turkménistan a accueilli, du 17 au 27 septembre 2017 à Ashgabat, les 5e Jeux asiatiques de  sports en salle et d’arts martiaux, auxquels ont participé de jeunes sportifs de 64 pays de la région Asie-Pacifique et une  équipe de réfugiés. Cette fête sportive a de nouveau montré le pouvoir magique qu’exerce le sport comme moyen de  coopération pour l’éducation, la santé, le développement et la paix. Le Turkménistan prévoit de tenir, sous l’égide de  l’UNESCO, la 7e Conférence internationale des ministres et hauts responsables de l’éducation physique et du sport, qui  permettra aux États membres de partager leur expérience du développement des aspects pédagogiques, culturels et sociaux  de l’éducation physique et du sport, et d’élaborer des stratégies et des programmes efficaces. Pour conclure, permettez-moi  de vous assurer que le Turkménistan continuera de développer la coopération internationale par le dialogue culturel et  l’échange d’expériences positives dans les domaines de l’éducation, de la science, de la culture et du sport, qui sont autant de  moyens d’appuyer le développement durable, de renforcer la compréhension entre les peuples et de maintenir la paix et la  stabilité dans le monde. Je vous remercie de votre attention.
7. Le Président :   Je vous remercie, Votre Excellence. Notre prochain orateur est S. E. Mme Itah Kandjii-Murangi, Ministre de  l’enseignement supérieur, de la formation et de l’innovation de la Namibie.
8.1 Ms Kandjii-Murangi (Namibia):    Mr President of the 39th session of the General Conference, esteemed Ministers, Ms Irina Bokova, Director- General of UNESCO, distinguished delegates, ladies and gentlemen. Madam President Alaoui, Namibia congratulates  you on your election as the President of the 39th session of the General Conference. We pledge full support and commit  to working with you during your term of office. I also wish to congratulate the outgoing President of the 38th session of  the General Conference, Honourable Stanley Simataa. In this regard, Namibia’s gratitude goes to UNESCO, its Member  States and the Secretariat, for the support accorded to him during his term of office. Namibia further commends the  Director-General, Ms Irina Bokova, for her excellent and strategic leadership in advocating for the role of UNESCO in the  world. We also applaud her for adopting a visionary approach in mobilizing resources, coupled with a thorough results- based management system.
8.2 Mr President, the levels of contemporary intolerance point to the fact that humanity is at variance with itself. The  high prevalence of conflicts, extremism, human and child trafficking, child marriages and gender-based violence,  continue to highlight the social ills that erode human dignity and deprive the world of peace and stability. UNESCO has a  sacred duty to embed in Member States a commitment to quality education; sustainable development; freedom of
222  speech and lasting peace in order to create a peaceful world for all. UNESCO’s mandate remains relevant 72 years after  its formation.
8.3 Furthermore, Namibia appreciates the role UNESCO plays in the implementation of the Sustainable  Development Goals (SDGs). In our country, the priority areas of technical and vocational education and training (TVET),  quality education, teacher development, education for sustainable development and global citizenship education are  important enablers for advancing SDG 4. TVET is seen as an effective vehicle for equipping youth with requisite skills for  employment and entrepreneurship. TVET is further considered to be a catalyst for economic growth and a strategy for  curbing youth unemployment.
8.4 Mr President, as part of President Hage Geingob’s “Harambee Prosperity Plan”, TVET transformation and  expansion is given prominence in order to accelerate skills development and augment tertiary graduates’ employability  opportunities. In our quest to expedite the TVET transformation, the Government is establishing a faculty for TVET  instructors’ training at one of our universities. As part of the envisioned expansion, more TVET institutions are being  established in several regions of Namibia. Work is at an advanced stage to make job attachment a compulsory  component of TVET education. UNESCOs technical support through the Namibia TVET scoping mission gave impetus to  the ongoing TVET transformation and expansion.
8.5 Namibia is a child of international solidarity. We are proud, active participants in UNESCO programmes. In  addition to TVET, we have benefitted from a number of UNESCO programmes. Namibia’s University of Science and  Technology is host to the UNESCO Chair in hydrology. Like the rest of the world, Namibia is prone to climate change  related disasters. For the past few years, we have had unprecedented floods and droughts. These have negatively  impacted on the lives of our citizens. In the quest to find solutions to these globally interconnected problems, we have  come to appreciate the platforms provided by UNESCO for exchanging ideas on best preventative practices.
8.6 Mr President, gender inequality is an issue that we all need to address at national level. I believe that one of the  key enablers in reducing poverty is to focus on the empowerment of women and girls. Namibia is making good progress  in this regard as reflected in its current parliamentary composition. Furthermore, I take note that 26 years since  UNESCO’s Declaration of Windhoek on Promoting an Independent and Pluralistic African Press, the number of  journalists killed globally is ever increasing and this cannot continue. Any form of violence against humanity should not  be tolerated. We should continue to find ways to ensure that the basic right of speech is respected at all times, all the  more so because a pluralistic and free press is essential for sustainable development and maintenance of democracy in  a nation, notwithstanding social economic development.
8.7 In conclusion, the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development is a paradigm shift that requires radical  approaches in our thinking and action. For the successful implementation of this Agenda, we must construct innovative  implementation pathways, with focus on the importance of empowering and dignifying all human beings. We cannot  expect different results while doing things the same way. I thank you.
9. Le Président :   Je vous remercie, Votre Excellence. Notre prochain orateur est S. E. M. Daouda Mamadou Marthé, Ministre de  l’enseignement primaire, de l’alphabétisation, de la promotion des langues nationales et de l’éducation civique du Niger.
10.1 M. Marthé (Niger) :  Monsieur le Président de la Conférence générale, Monsieur le Président du Conseil exécutif, Madame la  Directrice générale, Mesdames et Messieurs en vos titres, grades et qualités, c’est pour moi un insigne honneur de  prendre la parole devant cette auguste Assemblée pour réaffirmer l’attachement du peuple nigérien aux nobles idéaux et  valeurs de notre Organisation commune, j’ai nommé l’UNESCO. Tout d’abord, j’adresse mes sincères félicitations à la  Présidente de la Conférence générale pour le choix porté sur sa personne et, par la même occasion, nous rendons un  hommage mérité au Président sortant. Je salue également les efforts déployés par le Président du Conseil exécutif pour  assurer le suivi régulier des actions menées conformément aux orientations de l’UNESCO. Je voudrais aussi, au nom  des plus hautes autorités du Niger, rendre un vibrant hommage à Mme Irina Bokova, Directrice générale de l’UNESCO,  dont le mandat prend fin. En effet, elle a su insuffler un dynamisme certain à notre Organisation, ce qui lui a permis  d’enregistrer des résultats importants et ce, en dépit des difficultés financières que l’UNESCO rencontre depuis la
36e session de la Conférence générale.
10.2 Mesdames et Messieurs, le Niger, faut-il le rappeler, est membre de l’UNESCO depuis le 10 novembre 1960.  Depuis lors, il n’a cessé d’œuvrer aux côtés de cette organisation pour la construction d’une paix durable dans le monde  à travers l’éducation, la science, la culture et la communication. Dans un monde qui est en perpétuelle évolution et en  proie à des défis multiples et multiformes, comme le terrorisme, la cybercriminalité, le réchauffement climatique, nos  actions doivent plus que jamais être guidées par les idéaux de l’UNESCO, qui doivent nous servir de boussole et qui  constituent, à n’en point douter, la solution pour faire face à tous ces bouleversements. Devant ces défis mondiaux, il est  impératif que nous trouvions des solutions à l’échelle mondiale à la hauteur des maux qui assaillent notre planète.
10.3 Mesdames et Messieurs, conscient que la culture constitue le véritable ciment de l’unité nationale, mais aussi  un facteur de développement, le Président de la République du Niger, S. E. M. Issoufou Mahamadou, a fait de la  renaissance culturelle son crédo pour enclencher un processus de transformation profonde de nos mentalités et de nos  comportements, en renouant avec nos valeurs ancestrales. Pour ce faire, l’accent sera mis sur la consolidation de la  cellule familiale, la promotion des valeurs sociales positives, la promotion des espaces d’échange et d’éducation  citoyenne, le renforcement du rôle des leaders d’opinion, le renforcement de l’unité nationale et la consolidation de la  démocratie et de la culture républicaine. Il s’agit là d’une dynamique d’appropriation par les citoyens, en particulier les  jeunes, qui représentent 75 % de notre population, des principes et valeurs socioculturels fondamentaux axés sur le
223  progrès, pour favoriser une prise de conscience leur permettant d’opérer individuellement et collectivement les  changements indispensables à la modernisation sociale, politique et économique du pays.
10.4 Mesdames et Messieurs, dans le domaine de l’éducation et de la formation, le Niger souscrit pleinement aux  orientations édictées à travers les Objectifs de développement durable (ODD), notamment l’ODD 4, qui vise à « assurer  à tous une éducation équitable, inclusive et de qualité et des possibilités d’apprentissage tout au long de la vie » d’ici
2030, ce qui cadre parfaitement avec les orientations du Programme sectoriel de l’éducation et de la formation (PSEF,
2014-2024). Certes, des progrès remarquables ont été enregistrés ces dernières années, qui ont permis d’améliorer les  indicateurs « d’accès » à l’éducation, mais le Niger continue à faire face à des insuffisances liées à la qualité des  enseignements et des apprentissages. C’est pour pallier cet état de fait qu’une feuille de route pour l’amélioration de la  qualité a été élaborée et mise en œuvre. Elle vise à favoriser la formation et la professionnalisation du corps enseignant,  l’adoption d’un programme d’enseignement par l’extension, entre autres, de l’utilisation des langues nationales, des TIC,  ou encore l’amélioration du pilotage et de la gouvernance du système éducatif. C’est également dans le cadre de cette  feuille de route qu’a été organisée récemment, à l’échelle nationale, l’évaluation des enseignants contractuels du cycle  primaire. Celle-ci a permis de déceler leurs insuffisances professionnelles, et d’identifier et de mettre en place un  dispositif de remédiation adéquat.
10.5 Mesdames et Messieurs, dans le domaine de l’environnement, le Niger dispose d’importantes ressources  naturelles et culturelles, dont certaines sont inscrites au patrimoine de l’UNESCO, telles que la réserve de biosphère  transfrontalière du W, la réserve de biosphère de l’Aïr et du Ténéré, ou encore le Centre historique d’Agadez.
10.6 S’agissant du domaine de la communication, il convient de retenir que le Président de la République, S. E. M.  Issoufou Mahamadou, a été le premier homme d’État à adopter la Déclaration de la montagne de la Table, qui appelle à  l’abolition de la loi pénale concernant les délits de diffamation et d’insulte, et replace ainsi la liberté de la presse au cœur  des discussions en Afrique.
10.7 Concernant la jeunesse, il importe de souligner que beaucoup de jeunes prématurément déscolarisés ou non  scolarisés bénéficient de formations adaptées devant servir de passerelle à l’éducation classique ou à l’apprentissage  des métiers. La même attention est accordée aux adultes. C’est le lieu pour moi de réitérer notre vif remerciement à  l’UNESCO pour le soutien et l’accompagnement dont bénéficie le Niger dans tous ces domaines que je viens d’évoquer.
10.8 Mesdames et Messieurs, permettez-moi d’évoquer la situation sécuritaire que connaît mon pays, le Niger,  essentiellement en raison de sa position géographique, qui l’expose aux tensions prévalant dans les États voisins  comme le Mali, le Nigéria et la Libye. Malgré cela, le Niger y fait face au prix d’énormes sacrifices, sur le plan humain,  comme sur le plan financier. Il faut savoir que sur les cinq dernières années, le Niger a consacré 15 % de son budget au  volet sécuritaire. Je profite de cette tribune pour lancer un vibrant appel à la communauté internationale pour qu’elle  accompagne le Niger, et plus particulièrement les pays du G5 Sahel. Je vous remercie de votre aimable attention.
11. Le Président :   Je vous remercie, Votre Excellence. Notre prochain orateur est S. E. M. Octave Nicoué Broohm, Ministre de  l’enseignement supérieur et de la recherche du Togo.
12.1 M. Broohm (Togo) :  Monsieur le Président de la Conférence générale, Monsieur le Président du Conseil exécutif, Madame la  Directrice générale de l’UNESCO, Excellences, Mesdames et Messieurs les ministres, chefs de délégation, honorables  délégués, Mesdames et Messieurs, au nom du Président de la République, du Gouvernement et du peuple togolais, qu’il  nous soit permis d’adresser nos chaleureuses félicitations à S. E. Mme l’Ambassadeur Zohour Alaoui pour sa brillante  élection à la présidence de la 39e session de la Conférence générale. Nos remerciements vont également au Président  sortant, S. E. M. Stanley Simataa, pour sa précieuse contribution à l’application et au suivi des décisions de la
38e session de la Conférence générale, notamment sa présidence efficace du Groupe de travail sur la gouvernance.  Que S. E. M. l’Ambassadeur Michael Worbs, Président du Conseil exécutif, ainsi que les membres du Conseil, reçoivent,  par notre modeste voix, les félicitations du Gouvernement et du peuple togolais, pour la qualité du travail effectué tout au  long du biennium qui s’achève. Nous voudrions enfin exprimer toute la gratitude du Gouvernement togolais à la  Directrice générale de l’UNESCO, Mme Irina Bokova, pour les nombreuses initiatives fructueuses qu’elle a su prendre  au cours de ses deux mandats pour que l’UNESCO continue de jouer son rôle d’agence de coopération intellectuelle du  système des Nations Unies. Par sa contribution décisive, notre Organisation est reconnue comme un des leaders dans  la mise en œuvre de plusieurs Objectifs de développement durable dans le monde.
12.2 Monsieur le Président, comme nous le savons tous, l’adoption du Programme de développement durable à  l’horizon 2030 par l’Assemblée générale des Nations Unies, sous le slogan « Une ONU plus forte pour un monde  meilleur », le 25 septembre 2015, marque le début d’une nouvelle ère pour l’UNESCO. Face aux exigences de cette  nouvelle ère, notre Organisation commune, à la cadence des rapides mutations du monde, demeure toujours fidèle à  ses engagements, à sa mission : contribuer à la construction d’une culture de la paix, à l’éradication de la pauvreté, au  développement durable et au dialogue interculturel. Ces engagements sont de plus en plus nécessaires aujourd’hui, face  à l’urgence et au sentiment de catastrophe qui accompagnent certains défis mondiaux actuels tels que le terrorisme,  l’extrémisme violent, le drame migratoire, la pauvreté, pour ne citer que ceux-là. Libérer l’humanité de la pauvreté, de la  faim, de la violence, etc., constitue autant de défis cruciaux qui en appellent à un engagement plus volontariste de tous  et, au premier chef, de l’UNESCO, au travers des objectifs du biennium qui commence à l’issue de la présente session,  celui du lancement de la mise en œuvre du Programme 2030.
12.3 S’agissant de l’ODD 4, notre pays, le Togo, suggère que des dispositions particulières soient prises pour  accompagner les pays qui n’ont pas réussi à atteindre les objectifs de l’Éducation pour tous à rattraper leur retard afin de  s’engager dans la réalisation du Programme 2030 avec plus de chances de succès.
12.4 En ce qui concerne le Programme 2030 dans son ensemble, le Togo déploie tout son effort pour participer  activement à plusieurs Objectifs de développement durable, notamment l’ODD 4, l’ODD 5 et l’ODD 14.
12.5 Nous nous félicitons du partenariat solide avec l’UNESCO dont notre pays bénéficie dans divers domaines,  notamment le projet d’élaboration du document diagnostic sur la question enseignante, l’utilisation des TIC dans  l’éducation grâce au financement apporté par le Fonds-en-dépôt chinois, l’accès universel, l’élaboration et la diffusion  des ressources éducatives libres pour améliorer la formation des enseignants et des apprenants et, enfin, l’élaboration  d’une politique nationale de l’enseignement technique et de la formation professionnelle.
12.6 Notre pays, en lien avec les orientations de l’UNESCO, contribue également à la promotion de l’égalité des  genres, une des priorités du Gouvernement, qui en fait d’ailleurs un défi national, par l’autonomisation des femmes et  l’éducation des jeunes filles, par-delà les clichés dangereux et les fausses représentations volontairement entretenus au  travers des siècles. Nous profitons de cette tribune pour saluer le lancement du Rapport mondial sur les inégalités de  genre dans l’enseignement des sciences, de la technologie, de l’ingénierie et des mathématiques lors du Colloque  international et du Forum politique de l’UNESCO sur le thème « Déchiffrer le code : l’éducation des filles en sciences,  technologies, ingénierie et mathématiques » à Bangkok (Thaïlande), du 28 au 30 août dernier. L’organisation du Camp  pour la promotion des jeunes filles dans les filières scientifiques, du 13 au 20 septembre dernier, à Kpalimé au Togo,  s’inscrit dans ce programme. Nous tenons à exprimer toute notre gratitude à la Direction générale de l’UNESCO, qui  traite avec sollicitude toutes les requêtes du Togo, pour tous les efforts consentis pour la réalisation de ce programme.  Nous saisissons l’occasion pour lancer un appel afin de renforcer l’appui technique et financier de l’UNESCO pour  promouvoir la participation des femmes à la science et à la recherche.
12.7 Nous voudrions remercier et féliciter l’UNESCO pour avoir aidé à organiser des ateliers sur la mise en œuvre  des conventions concernant les mesures à prendre pour interdire et empêcher l’importation, l’exportation et le transfert  de propriété illicites.
12.8 Enfin, le Togo, convaincu que la communication et l’information sont nécessaires pour la réalisation des ODD,  réaffirme son attachement à la promotion de la liberté d’expression et au développement des médias.
12.9 Au nom du Président de la République et du Gouvernement togolais, nous voudrions une fois de plus adresser  toutes nos chaleureuses félicitations à la nouvelle Directrice générale et lui réitérer notre engagement à continuer la  coopération. Nous voudrions enfin saluer et renouveler nos chaleureuses félicitations à la nouvelle Directrice générale, à  qui nous souhaitons le plus grand succès. Je vous remercie pour votre attention.
(14.1) M. Razzaz (Jordanie) (traduit de l’arabe) :   Au nom de Dieu, le Clément, le Miséricordieux. Monsieur le Président de la Conférence générale, Monsieur le  Président du Conseil exécutif, Madame la Directrice générale de l’UNESCO, Excellences, chefs de délégation, Mesdames et  Messieurs, que la paix et la miséricorde et la bénédiction de Dieu soient sur vous. Permettez-moi tout d’abord de féliciter  Madame l’Ambassadrice Zohour Alaoui pour son élection au poste de Présidente de la 39e session de la Conférence générale  de l’UNESCO, et de lui souhaiter plein succès dans la direction des travaux de cette session. Je tiens également à adresser  mes vifs remerciements à S. E. M. Michael Worbs, Président du Conseil exécutif, et à remercier la Directrice générale de  l’UNESCO, Mme Irina Bokova, dont nous avons apprécié la sage gestion de l’Organisation au cours des années qui se sont  écoulées. Il me plaît également de présenter mes félicitations à Mme Audrey Azoulay pour sa nomination par le Conseil  exécutif au poste de Directrice générale de l’UNESCO, et de lui souhaiter plein succès à la tête de l’Organisation.
(14.2) Mesdames et Messieurs, la Jordanie a joué un rôle important, en tant que membre non permanent du Conseil de  sécurité, en œuvrant pour l’adoption de la résolution 2199 (2015), qui condamne la destruction et le pillage du patrimoine  culturel et institue des procédures strictes pour lutter contre le pillage des objets archéologiques et culturels de l’Iraq et de la  République arabe syrienne. Soucieuse de protéger son patrimoine, la Jordanie a tenu à inscrire cinq sites sur la Liste du  patrimoine mondial, notamment le site du baptême du Christ, considéré comme étant le berceau du christianisme. De même,  l’UNESCO a inscrit la Vieille Ville de Jérusalem et ses remparts sur la Liste du patrimoine mondial en 1981, et sur la Liste du  patrimoine mondial en péril en 1982, suite à la demande de la Jordanie, afin de préserver la situation historique antérieure à  l’occupation israélienne de 1967 dans la ville sainte. Je voudrais, à cet égard, réaffirmer que Jérusalem est une priorité pour  Sa Majesté le Roi Abdallah II ibn Hussein en sa qualité de protecteur hachémite des lieux saints musulmans et chrétiens de  Jérusalem. En outre, il faut louer le rôle important que l’UNESCO a joué ces dernières années en ce qui concerne la  préservation du patrimoine de la Vieille Ville de Jérusalem et ses remparts, grâce à une série de résolutions et de décisions  adoptées par ses organes directeurs , qui rejettent toutes les tentatives visant à modifier la situation historique et juridique  existante dans la Vieille Ville de Jérusalem et ses remparts, en accord avec les responsabilités et les sphères de compétence  de l’Organisation.
(14.3) Mesdames et Messieurs, le bien-être et la prospérité dans les pays qui manquent de ressources naturelles, comme la  Jordanie, dépendent entièrement de l’excellence des capacités humaines que l’on développe grâce à une éducation de  qualité. De grands obstacles entravent la réalisation de cette vision, notamment les conflits qui se déchaînent dans notre  région, en particulier la crise des réfugiés syriens, qui a mis à mal le système éducatif en Jordanie, ce qui, à son tour, a grevé  notre capacité à fournir des services éducatifs de qualité. Les classes sont devenues bondées et bon nombre d’écoles  appliquent désormais un système à deux équipes, avec une baisse conséquente des performances. De cette tribune, je prie  instamment la communauté internationale de prendre ses responsabilités humanitaires envers les pays qui accueillent les  réfugiés et de soutenir les institutions éducatives dans ces pays. Investir dans l’éducation des réfugiés dans le pays hôte  constitue le premier pas vers la reconstruction de ce qui a été détruit par la guerre en République arabe syrienne et vers la  formation d’une génération de jeunes capables de contribuer à la construction plutôt qu’au conflit et aux tueries.
(14.4) Mesdames et Messieurs, le renforcement des capacités de recherche dans les domaines des sciences, des  technologies et de l’ingénierie est une priorité absolue pour les pays en développement, compte tenu des effets positifs que  cela peut avoir sur la croissance économique. La Jordanie contribuera à enrichir le dialogue international sur ces sujets,  notamment en ce qui concerne l’eau, l’énergie, l’alimentation et la compréhension culturelle entre les peuples, en accueillant,  en partenariat avec l’UNESCO, le Forum mondial de la science, du 7 au 11 novembre 2017. Elle contribuera également à  renforcer la coopération scientifique au service de la paix et à encourager une communauté régionale de scientifiques qui  travaillent ensemble au Centre « SESAME ». Ce centre, inauguré en Jordanie en mai 2017, est le fruit d’une collaboration  réussie entre l’UNESCO et mon pays.
(14.5) En ce qui concerne le soutien apporté aux jeunes, il convient d’agir de concert afin de développer leurs capacités et  leurs compétences, en vue de les autonomiser. Je voudrais rappeler, à cet égard, l’initiative de S. A. R. le Prince héritier  Hussein ben Abdallah, qui a amené le Conseil de sécurité à adopter la résolution 2250 (2015) sur la jeunesse, la paix et la  sécurité, lors d’une session présidée par Son Altesse. En conclusion, la Jordanie, en tant que membre de la communauté  internationale, réaffirme sa position constante et son soutien à notre Organisation comme phare au service de la paix, de la  connaissance et de la préservation du patrimoine. Que la paix et la miséricorde et la bénédiction de Dieu soient sur vous.
15. Le Président :   Merci Ministre. Notre prochain orateur est S. E. Mme Kandia Camara Kamissoko, Ministre de l’éducation  nationale, de l’enseignement technique et de la formation professionnelle de la Côte d’Ivoire.
16.1 Mme Kamissoko (Côte d’Ivoire) :   Monsieur le Président de la Conférence générale, Monsieur le Président du Conseil exécutif, Madame la  Directrice générale de l’UNESCO, Mesdames et Messieurs les chefs de délégation, Excellences, Mesdames et  Messieurs, les assises de la 39e session de la Conférence générale m’offrent l’agréable occasion d’exprimer, au nom du  Président de la République de Côte d’Ivoire, S. E. M. Alassane Ouattara, la reconnaissance du peuple ivoirien à  l’UNESCO. Je voudrais adresser mes remerciements à M. Mutumba Simataa et M. Michael Worbs pour leurs actions  remarquables au service de l’UNESCO. À Mme Zohour Alaoui, j’adresse nos sincères et vives félicitations pour son  élection à la présidence de la présente session de la Conférence générale et l’assure de nos encouragements, ainsi que  de notre soutien. Le Gouvernement de Côte d’Ivoire voudrait solennellement rendre hommage à Mme Irina Bokova qui,  durant ses deux mandats, n’a ménagé aucun effort pour assurer la bonne marche de notre Organisation commune.  Merci infiniment, Madame la Directrice générale. Par la même occasion, nous adressons nos vives félicitations à Mme  Audrey Azoulay pour son élection à la tête de l’UNESCO et lui témoignons tout notre soutien.
16.2 Mesdames et Messieurs, mon pays, sans doute autant que bien d’autres ici présents, sait que la paix n’est  jamais définitivement acquise. C’est pourquoi nous sommes très heureux que la communauté internationale, à travers le  Conseil exécutif de l’UNESCO, ait adopté à l’unanimité la décision de poursuivre la mise en œuvre du Programme global  d’appui spécial post-conflit en faveur de la Côte d’Ivoire. Mesdames et Messieurs, comme vous le savez, sur toute la  planète, la paix est constamment menacée par l’intégrisme et l’intolérance. C’est pourquoi le rôle de l’UNESCO doit être  réaffirmé davantage.
16.3 Monsieur le Président, dans le domaine de l’éducation, il est établi qu’en dépit des avancées notables, la plupart  des programmes dont l’UNESCO a été chef de file ou responsable de la mise en œuvre sont arrivés à leur terme en
2015 sans avoir atteint tous leurs objectifs. De nouveaux efforts méritent d’être déployés, notamment pour un monde  alphabétisé au XXIe siècle et pour une éducation sans discrimination.
16.4 La Côte d’Ivoire, qui aspire à devenir un pays émergent en 2020, s’est approprié les ODD et tâche de les  traduire en actes concrets. Dans cette perspective, mon pays a institué, depuis septembre 2015, la scolarisation  obligatoire pour tous les enfants de 6 à 16 ans. La mise en œuvre de cette politique nécessite la mobilisation d’un  financement additionnel à hauteur de 461 milliards de francs CFA, soit 703 millions d’euros sur la période 2017-2020.  Nous savons pouvoir compter sur le soutien de la communauté internationale pour mobiliser ces ressources nécessaires  pour que la Côte d’Ivoire parvienne à relever ce défi des compétences, non pas pour elle seule, mais pour toute la sous- région de l’Afrique de l’Ouest. Car, faut-il le rappeler, 26 % de la population ivoirienne est d’origine étrangère, venue  principalement des pays frontaliers.
16.5 Monsieur le Président, en ces temps de défis démographiques, de raréfaction des ressources naturelles, de  réchauffement climatique et de récurrence des catastrophes naturelles, il nous paraît tout à fait indiqué que la science  puisse se mettre au service du développement afin de trouver des solutions idoines à ces préoccupations planétaires  multiples et complexes. Il importe, dans ce cadre, de traduire les produits des recherches scientifiques dans les faits en  renforçant les capacités humaines et matérielles en matière de science, technologie et innovation. Par ailleurs, face aux  catastrophes naturelles à répétition, mon pays souhaite qu’un consensus se dégage lors des présentes assises autour  du projet de déclaration de principes éthiques en rapport avec le changement climatique. L’homme ne doit plus se  considérer comme maître et possesseur de la nature, mais plutôt comme son ami et son obligé, car il y va de sa vie.
16.6 Mesdames et Messieurs, mon pays salue la restauration du Lion d’Athéna en application de la décision adoptée  à l’unanimité par la 199e session du Conseil exécutif de l’UNESCO. La reconstruction des mausolées des saints de  Tombouctou, au Mali, comme l’a déclaré Alfredo Pérez de Armiñán, est « la meilleure réponse qu’on peut donner aux  extrémistes violents [...] ». Mon pays, qui a connu la guerre, sait l’importance de la protection du patrimoine culturel. La  culture porte et contient l’âme des peuples. Elle constitue leur être et leur raison d’être.
16.7 Monsieur le Présidente, la communication et l’information forment un point central dans le maintien de la paix et  de la cohésion sociale. C’est pourquoi la Côte d’Ivoire adhère pleinement à l’objectif fondamental du processus du  Sommet mondial sur la société de l’information et fait siennes ses recommandations. À cet égard, au niveau de la  gouvernance de l’Internet, mon pays a, entre autres, mis en place un environnement réglementaire adéquat, conforme  aux nouveaux enjeux de développement de la Côte d’Ivoire. Ces nouvelles dispositions sont plus à même de renforcer la  sécurité des données à caractère personnel et de lutter efficacement contre la cybercriminalité.
16.8 Mesdames et Messieurs, l’UNESCO a 72 ans. Soixante-douze ans de recherche inlassable de la paix. Mon  pays sait que les défis dans cette quête sont encore nombreux et, malheureusement, se multiplient. Leur ténacité, leur  résurgence et leur complexité ne doivent pas être des motifs de résignation mais, au contraire, des cloches pour sonner  la mobilisation générale en vue de la sauvegarde de la planète pour un monde meilleur pour les générations présentes  et à venir. Je vous remercie.
17. Le Président :   Je vous remercie, Votre Excellence. Et notre prochain orateur est S. E. Mme Henrietta Doran-York, Ministre  plénipotentiaire de Sint Maarten.
18.1 Ms Doran-York (Sint Maarten):    Honourable President, Honourable Director-General, Excellencies, distinguished delegates, ladies and  gentlemen. Mr President, it is an honour, as Minister Plenipotentiary of Sint Maarten on behalf of our Minister of
227  Education, Culture, Youth and Sport, that I stand here at the 39th session of the UNESCO General Conference to share  the accomplishments and visions of Sint Maarten on behalf of our Government and its people. Firstly, I would like to  thank Ms Irina Bokova for her exemplary years of service as Director-General of this auspicious Organization. I would  like to congratulate at the same time, Ms Audrey Azoulay, on her nomination by the Executive Board for the post of  Director-General. This visit serves as an honour to represent my Government and country after the worst hurricane  recorded in history to hit the shores of our beautiful island. Our people have proven to be resilient, willing and ready to  build back Sint Maarten better and stronger.
18.2 Mr President, in continuing with the goals and focus of UNESCO, Sint Maarten has made important and  structural strides in areas such as education, youth empowerment, cultural perseverance and technological efforts. First,  allow me to thank and congratulate UNESCO and the Ministry of Education, Culture, and Science in the Netherlands for  the intangible cultural heritage workshops hosted in collaboration with UNESCO. The workshops contributed largely to  the development of the cultural and national heritage of Sint Maarten. It is now four years into the celebration of the  “Decade of Revitalizing our Natural and Cultural Heritage”. In June 2016, the Department of Culture and the Sint Maarten  National Commission for UNESCO launched a national survey asking the local community to fill out online and offline  questionnaires on Sint Maarten’s intangible cultural heritage. This was done in order to enable a larger percentage of the  community to give their opinion on Sint Maarten’s intangible cultural heritage, as well as finalizing the island’s intangible  cultural heritage inventory. To date, over 200 surveys have been collected, information sessions have been organized  and a second national intangible cultural heritage consultation has been held. The Department of Culture is also in the  process of developing national legislation for the protection of their national tangible and intangible cultural heritage. In  order to further protect and preserve our heritage in Sint Maarten, a programme for digitalizing our cultural artefacts and  archives commenced in 2017.
18.3 Mr President, Sint Maarten and the Netherlands have agreed to co-ratify the 2001 Convention on the Protection  of the Underwater Cultural Heritage. Ratifying the Convention is very important to Sint Maarten for the preservation of its  underwater cultural heritage. The implementation of the 2001 Convention along with the enforcement of our national  maritime ordinance will assist with the prevention of pillage, destruction and commercial exploitation of our underwater  cultural heritage, as well as assisting in further developing national policy on the protection of underwater heritage.
18.4 Mr President, teaching for the twenty-first century student is challenging our educational system to facilitate  learning for a future unknown to us all. To ensure that students are given a fair opportunity to compete in today’s world of  technology, two Caribbean technology and education conferences organized by the Foresee Foundation in collaboration  with the Ministry of Education, and sponsored by Sint Maarten Development Fund, Windsong Foundation and UNESCO,  were held on the island in 2015 and 2016.  The Government of Sint Maarten is committed to the integration of information  and communication technology (ICT) in education. The goal is to improve the quality of life of the people of Sint Maarten,  by significantly enriching their social, economic and cultural well-being through the development and modernization of  society.
18.5 Our goal is also to utilize ICT in schools in order to transform the educational landscape of Sint Maarten. In this  context, the Ministry of Education, Culture Youth and Sport has embarked on a project, formerly known as “One tablet  per child”, and now referred to as “iSTEP”, which stands for “Inspiring our Students with Technology in Education  Project”. iSTEP is a multi-annual project aimed at facilitating the transition from a traditional classroom setting to a  modern learning environment in order to further stimulate twenty-first century learning.
18.6 Mr President, Sint Maarten submitted its first nomination for the Memory of the World Register in 2016. In 2017,  we submitted a joint nomination with Suriname and Curacao to the Memory of the World Regional Register of  UNESCO’s Memory of the World Regional Committee for Latin America and the Caribbean (MOWLAC) entitled “The  Documentary Heritage of the Enslaved People of the Dutch Caribbean”. I am elated to report that on 26 October 2017  the Ministry was informed that the joint nomination had been approved. Sint Maarten is proud of its first successful entry  of its documentary heritage in the Memory of the World Register for Latin America and the Caribbean.
18.7 Mr President, with the recent admittance of the Methodist Agogic Centre (MAC) comprehensive secondary  school into UNESCO’s Associated Schools Network (ASPnet), Sint Maarten is now one of the newest countries to join  ASPnet. In an effort to continue facilitating and improving quality of life and equal opportunities for continuous learning,  Sint Maarten was accepted as a member of the UNESCO Global Network of Learning Cities on 22 March 2017.
18.8 In closing, Mr President, Sint Maarten was severely impacted by Hurricane Irma. However, the people continue  to prove how truly resilient they are. Service men and women, civil servants, teachers, parents and community members  have been working extremely hard since 7 September 2017 to clean up and rebuild Sint Maarten. Sint Maarten is small,  but the people are strong, resilient and hardworking. We were not where we wanted to be post 6 September 2017, but  we will rise together, stronger and better than ever before and we will be focusing on our strength as people to work  together to achieve twenty-first century learning skills for all our people to be able to thrive locally, regionally and globally.  Thank you.
19. Le Président :   Je vous remercie, Votre Excellence. Notre prochain orateur est S. E. Mme Olivia Grange, Ministre de la culture,  de la formation des femmes et des sports de la Jamaïque.
20.1 Ms Grange (Jamaica):   Madam President of the 39th session of the General Conference, Madam Director-General, Mr Chairperson of  the Executive Board, ministers responsible for UNESCO affairs, representatives of other United Nations organizations,  distinguished representatives from capitals across the world, distinguished ladies and gentlemen, we wish at this time to
228  specifically recognize my fellow ministers and other delegates from the Caribbean, some of whom have suffered  immensely from the unfortunate onslaught of extreme weather conditions in recent months which caused widespread  devastation and destruction, including to heritage sites. We wish you a speedy recovery. These incidents demonstrate  that climate change is a real and present threat to small island developing States (SIDS). lt is for this reason that we  express our deepest appreciation to the Director-General under whose tenure greater prominence has been given in the  work of UNESCO to the impact of climate change, and for the initiative aimed at promoting the importance of mitigation  and building the resilience of SIDS to the impact of climate change.
20.2 Jamaica remains firmly committed to the ideals, goals and objectives of this noble Organization. lt is this firm  commitment that has motivated us to present our candidature for membership of the UNESCO Executive Board for the
2017-2021 period. We invite your support for our candidature. I address you today as a proud daughter from the land of  internationally renowned human rights activist, Marcus Mosiah Garvey, visionary for the restoration of dignity and  integrity of the people of African descent, at home and across the diaspora. Jamaica is also the land of the iconic reggae  artist Bob Marley, whose songs of resistance and resilience, of universal peace and solidarity, have gained worldwide  acclaim and provided the wings on which many freedom fighters have soared to liberation. It is also home to the  legendary athlete Usain Bolt, the fastest man on earth over 100 and 200 metres.
20.3 Mr President, as a small Island developing State, we are in constant confrontation with the impact of climate  change and the inequities of global economic systems that often result in serious social and psychological damage to our  people. Add to that the residue of slavery and colonialism, and you get a prescription for disaster of one kind or another,  which we must constantly strive to mitigate. It is against this background that we have intensified our focus on our young  people by deepening their involvement and participation in national affairs and promoting youth employment in the  cultural and creative industries. November is celebrated as “youth month” each year in Jamaica. Our youth parliament  goes into action at this time every year, providing a platform for young people to engage in the political process, adding  their voices to policy and programme development concerning youth. Junior mayors of parish municipalities are now  being inducted to impact the political process at the community level. Incubation and talent development efforts targeting  young persons are being increased in the cultural and creative industries. Great strides have been made in establishing  UNESCO clubs in schools in a programme which encompasses culture and heritage clubs that have been in existence  for some time. This is creating a more formidable and impactful cultural experience for our young people.
20.4 Jamaica will continue to work closely with the Cluster Office in the Caribbean in implementing the major  programmes defined in the Programme and Budget for 2017-2021 (39 C/5), placing special emphasis on Sustainable  Development Goal 4, which is compatible with Jamaica’s mantra of “Every child can learn, every child must learn”.  Guided by deliberations in UNESCO, we continue to create new strategies and programmes reflecting lifelong learning,  education for all, and quality education for success.
20.5 Since my appointment as Jamaica’s first Minister of Gender Affairs, a lot has been achieved. We have  established a national strategic action plan to eliminate gender-based violence. We have laid the groundwork for the  establishment of centres to house female victims of domestic abuse. We have established a programme for readmission  of teenage mothers into the formal school system. Our work in Jamaica has been intense. In the last two years we have  partnered with UNESCO on a series of initiatives, including the revision of the national culture policy, now called the  “national policy on culture and creative economy”, and successfully hosted the first Caribbean symposium on climate  change and world heritage in Kingston in May 20I7. Following the inscription of the Blue and John Crow Mountains on  the UNESCO World Heritage List, the first mixed site in the Caribbean, we have held two economic development fora for  the communities situated around this heritage site. This has enhanced our capacity to offer sustainable benefits to  residents in the protected area in order to enhance their capacity to sustainably benefit from the designation.
20.6 Mr President, Jamaica has embarked on extensive activities in support of our creative economy, including sport,  to promote the creative sector as a catalyst for national development. We are working closely with Usain Bolt to establish  a Caribbean sports medicine centre at the University of the West lndies (UWI) to facilitate better medical responses to  our elite and junior athletes in the Caribbean and Latin America. We have also established a Jamaican athletes’  insurance plan, a non-contributory group life and health plan paid for by the Government as part of our commitment to  securing the well-being and development of our national sports representatives. Plans are also advanced for the creation  of a world-class training base for athletes from around the world in our quest to share our expertise in developing young  ambitious athletes into world champions. UNESCO signalled its support by funding the pre-feasibility study of Jamaica’s  sports programme. The next step is to develop a business plan and to make it happen on a grand scale.
20.7 Finally, the mandate of the Executive Board, under the authority of the General Conference, is focused on the  development of policies and programmes to direct UNESCO’s activities. Jamaica stands ready as a member of the  Board to assiduously fulfil this mandate and contribute to strengthening the work of UNESCO, particularly in the area of  sustainable development. It is our view that UNESCO carries a heavy burden of responsibility to assist in tackling various  global economic and political crises and in finding solutions that will promote sustainable development for all. We believe  that sustainable prosperity is only achievable when the average citizen, armed with his or her culture and creativity, is  given full opportunity to develop talents and abilities and create world-class products that will astonish the world. From  the land of the fastest man on earth and Bob Marley, I say thank you.
21. Le Président :  Je vous remercie, Votre Excellence. Notre prochain orateur est S. E. M. Tilaye Gete, Ministre de l’éducation  d’Éthiopie.
22.1 Mr Gete (Ethiopia):    Mr President of the General Conference, Madam Director-General, Excellencies, Ministers, distinguished  delegates, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the Government of Ethiopia and on my own behalf allow me first of all to  congratulate Madam President Zohour Alaoui upon your election as the first woman President of the General Conference.  I would also like to thank Mr Mutumba Simataa for his outstanding contributions as President of the 38th session of the  General Conference. Allow me to also congratulate the Director-General Irina Bokova for her able leadership during the  past eight years. Despite the very challenging context of your tenure, you managed to successfully advance the  objectives of the Organization. More importantly, UNESCO’s success to establish a stand-alone Sustainable  Development Goal on education will remain a legacy of your leadership, among other achievements. I would also like to  congratulate Ms Audrey Azoulay for her nomination by the Executive Board as the next Director-General of UNESCO.
22.2 Mr President, Excellencies, distinguished delegates; we are meeting here two years after the adoption of the  Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). The adoption by itself can be regarded as a breakthrough in its approach and a  demonstration of commitment by all countries of the world, big or small, rich or poor. However, the world has faced both  natural and manmade challenges of different kinds. In this regard, UNESCO’s role is critical. Ethiopia has shown its  commitment to the SDGs by playing a key role in the preparation of Africa’s common agenda, hosting the third financing  for development conference in July 2015. The outcome was articulated in the Addis Ababa Action Agenda and by  participation in the 2017 voluntary national review on SDGs. The report was well received by the United Nations High- level Political Forum on Sustainable Development (HLPF) organized by the Economic and Social Council (ECOSOC),  and enabled us to draw lessons from others and share our success stories.
22.3 As one of the fastest growing economies in the world, Ethiopia has included the most ambitious SDGs as an  integral part of its national development policies and planning framework. Our prevailing goal is poverty reduction and its  ultimate eradication through transforming our economy and building democracy. To ensure inclusiveness, Ethiopia has  taken targeted policy interventions with the objective of realizing the vision of leaving no one behind. Ethiopia has  created favourable conditions to successfully implement the SDGs. Nearly 72% of our national spending is allocated to  the successful implementation of the SDGs.
22.4 Mr President, Ethiopia has an estimated population of 94.3 million in 2017, which is projected to reach
137 million by 2030. With under 25-year-olds representing more than 60% of the population, youth empowerment,  education and employment through skills development is at the forefront of our development agenda aimed at reaping  the envisaged demographic dividend considered to be an imperative for Ethiopia’s transformation. In this regard, Ethiopia  fully supports the pan-African meeting on SDGs scheduled to take place in Kenya in March 2018. As there is no future  without children, there is no development nor ambition if children are not educated. That is why Ethiopia is highly  committed to promoting access to quality education at all levels and endeavours to address lifelong learning. Enhancing  human capital by investing in education is the key to realizing our vision of becoming a lower middle-income country by
2025. The share allocated to priority sectors such as education and training accounted for the lion’s share of Ethiopia’s  total budget, which on average stood at 25% of the public budget or about 4.5% of gross domestic product (GDP).  Ethiopia has fully integrated the SDGs into its fifth education sector development plan.
22.5 In addition, Ethiopia is moving forward to build a unified economic and political society. This is clearly stipulated  in the constitution of the country. In addition to the existing legal institutions, civics and ethics education are our major  instruments to advance democracy, build peace and address the diverse interests of our nation, and build global  citizenship. However, fake news, hate speech and inappropriate use of social media are becoming new challenges to our  efforts. As we have seen, they have also become a challenge to other Member States, so UNESCO should continue its  efforts to address this worldwide problem.
22.6 Mr President, Madam Director-General, Ethiopia is a rich cultural mosaic of various nations and nationalities and  languages. In the past decades, nine world heritage sites, three intangible heritage elements and three biosphere  reserves in Ethiopia have been inscribed. Thus, UNESCO’s work in both tangible and intangible heritage conservation  and protection is very important to us. I cannot let this moment pass without thanking the World Heritage Centre and its  advisory bodies for all their support in the management of our heritage sites and for all the work undertaken to remove  Simien Mountains National Park from the List of World Heritage in Danger. Moreover, Ethiopia was very pleased not only  to host the 11th session of the Intergovernmental Committee for the Safeguarding of the Intangible Cultural Heritage, but  also to succeed in the inscription of Oromo’s “Gada system”, a profoundly democratic socio-political system, on the  Representative List of the Intangible Cultural Heritage of Humanity.
22.7 As a forerunner in Africa in upholding the climate agenda globally, Ethiopia has launched and is implementing  the Climate-Resilient Green Economy (CRGE) strategy. In this regard, UNESCO can play a central role in climate  change issues through its various works in the science sector and through its different organs. I call upon all Member  States to support the establishment of the AfriBioFund, which will provide financial support to the realization of the  Programme on Man and the Biosphere (MAB) strategy in Africa. Madam President, Madam Director-General, cognizant  of the role of science and technology to achieve meaningful growth and development, as well as enrolling 70% of higher  education students in science and technology fields, Ethiopia has established two universities exclusively dedicated to  science and technology education and research.
22.8 Finally, I would like to assure this House that Ethiopia will give its utmost support to the realization of UNESCO’s  agenda. In this regard, I would like to call upon all Member States to support Ethiopia’s candidatures for the Executive  Board, the Management of Social Transformations (MOST) Programme, and the International Hydrological Programme  (IHP). I thank you.
(24.1) M. Abdel-Jalil (Libye) (traduit de l’arabe) :    Monsieur le Président de la Conférence générale, Monsieur le Président du Conseil exécutif, Madame la Directrice  générale, Excellences les chefs et membres des délégations, je vous salue. Tout d’abord, je tiens à adresser mes félicitations  à Madame la Présidente de la Conférence générale pour son élection en tant que Présidente de cette session, et lui souhaite  plein succès pour les travaux de la Conférence. Par cette intervention, je transmets l’appréciation du Gouvernement d’unité  nationale et du peuple libyens à l’égard de l’UNESCO, dont nous saluons le rôle dans les domaines de l’éducation, des  sciences et de la culture tout au long des 70 années de son existence. Le peuple libyen a souhaité, à la veille de son  indépendance, au milieu du siècle dernier, adhérer à l’Organisation, si bien que la Libye est membre de l’UNESCO depuis  maintenant 65 ans, et elle entretient cet engagement auprès de la communauté internationale dans les domaines de  compétence de l’Organisation. Nous tenons beaucoup à notre qualité de membre à part entière de l’Organisation, car nous  croyons que la mission de l’UNESCO doit être d’aider tous les pays à assurer le succès de ses programmes éducatifs,  scientifiques et culturels, à pérenniser son travail en faveur de l’alphabétisation sous toutes ses formes, à atteindre une  éducation de qualité et à préserver le patrimoine et les monuments archéologiques en tant que trésor culturel de l’humanité.
(24.2) En Libye, le Bureau des antiquités et les autorités de sécurité ont pu protéger et préserver le patrimoine et les sites  archéologiques grâce à une coopération fructueuse avec l’UNESCO. Nous saluons avec gratitude les appels répétés de  Mme Irina Bokova, la Directrice générale actuelle de l’UNESCO, à préserver les antiquités en Libye, suite à quoi le Conseil  exécutif a adopté une décision établissant un comité chargé de trouver les moyens de remplir les conditions stipulées par le  Centre du patrimoine mondial en ce qui concerne les cinq sites archéologiques placés sur la Liste du patrimoine mondial en  péril. Le Gouvernement libyen continue de déployer des efforts considérables pour lutter contre le trafic illicite du patrimoine  culturel et a pris des mesures effectives pour récupérer certains objets et les restituer à leur lieu d’origine. Le Gouvernement  libyen a également démontré sa détermination à protéger le patrimoine contre les bandes armées lors des événements de la  ville de Sabratha en septembre dernier. Le site est désormais en sécurité et bien protégé.
(24.3) Mesdames et Messieurs, la Libye traverse actuellement une période délicate de sa longue histoire. L’éducation est un  pilier que nous souhaiterions rétablir sur des bases saines et fortes, parce qu’elle sera le pôle central de la construction de la  nation à l’avenir. Malgré les tentatives sérieuses entreprises par certains des collègues qui m’ont précédé au poste de ministre  de l’éducation depuis l’indépendance, la qualité de l’éducation en Libye est restée relativement médiocre, pour ne pas dire  mauvaise, pendant de nombreuses et longues périodes tout au long des décennies passées. Nous en payons aujourd’hui le  prix. La tâche reste immense pour nous débarrasser des effets négatifs qui en découlent. Malheureusement, l’UNESCO s’est  contentée d’observer la situation, sans prendre de mesures pratiques sur le terrain pour empêcher l’effondrement du secteur.
(24.4) Le Ministère libyen de l’éducation tente à présent de reconstituer et de réorganiser de manière inédite le processus  éducatif. Nous avons commencé en pratique à mettre en œuvre de nombreuses politiques de réforme basées sur trois  fondements principaux : (1) lutter contre la corruption et sélectionner et exécuter d’importants programmes aux objectifs clairs,  susceptibles d’être appliqués concrètement, en renonçant totalement aux programmes nébuleux ; (2) sélectionner les  personnes les plus compétentes et les mieux à même d’assumer la gestion de tous les établissements d’éducation, de  recherche et d’enseignement professionnel en Libye et à l’étranger, en ouvrant la porte des concours pertinents à tous les  Libyens ; (3) associer les femmes de façon effective à la conception des politiques éducatives et faire en sorte qu’elles  représentent 30 % des cadres dans les établissements d’enseignement, car nous croyons qu’aucune nation ne peut se relever  en réprimant la moitié de ses habitants. Entrent dans le cadre du premier point tous les programmes de développement et de  formation souhaitables qui concernent, par exemple, la formation des formateurs et des enseignants, la formation  professionnelle, l’élaboration des programmes scolaires, l’introduction des technologies modernes et de l’informatique dans  diverses acticités ou l’amélioration de la qualité de l’éducation à tous les niveaux. Précisément dans ce domaine, nous  espérons que l’UNESCO nous aidera à concevoir et à mettre en œuvre des programmes et des politiques pouvant servir nos  objectifs, et qu’elle sera pour nous un vrai partenaire et une référence forte.
(24.5) Comment pouvons-nous compter sur l’UNESCO pour réaliser nos aspirations, mais en nous affranchissant de la  bureaucratie et des discussions théoriques et politiques qui ont dominé la plus grande partie de nos interactions avec cette  Organisation pendant plus de 60 ans ? L’UNESCO peut-elle servir d’autorité forte, de bras de soutien, comme nous le  souhaitons ? Ou bien a-t-elle vieilli, ou est-elle devenue surdimensionnée et incapable d’agir, ce qui nous obligerait à  rechercher d’autres alternatives ? Nous continuons d’espérer qu’un changement intervienne dans les politiques de  l’Organisation afin qu’elle soit plus dynamique et d’une plus grande vitalité, ce qui la sortirait de la spirale de la parole  théorique et politique et la ferait agir concrètement sur le terrain au niveau de tous ses programmes, et pas seulement d’une  partie d’entre eux. En conclusion, nous saluons Mme Audrey Azoulay pour sa nomination par le Conseil exécutif au poste de  Directeur général de l’UNESCO. Pour sa part, la Libye attend de l’Organisation davantage d’efficacité et des contributions  effectives. Je vous remercie de votre aimable attention.
25. Le Président :   Merci beaucoup. Notre prochain orateur est S. E. M. St. Clair Prince, Ministre de l’éducation, de la réconciliation  nationale et des affaires ecclésiastiques de Saint-Vincent-et-les Grenadines.
26.1 Mr St. Clair Prince (Saint Vincent and the Grenadines):   Mr President of the 39th session of the General Conference, Mr Chairperson of the Executive Board, Madam  Director-General, Excellencies, esteemed delegates, ladies and gentlemen. Madam President Alaoui, allow me to  congratulate you upon your election as President of the 39th session of the General Conference and to wish you every  success during your presidency. Saint Vincent and the Grenadines welcomes New Caledonia, a sister island, as an  Associate Member of UNESCO. I would also like to greet all my Caribbean neighbours who are present here today.
26.2 The world has changed and all countries are grappling with new problems – population explosion, environmental  and climatic disasters, inequality, and terrorism. They are global challenges which we, the Member States, can only  address by moving forward together within a real spirit of cooperation. International cooperation is at the heart of  UNESCO’s mandate and it is our responsibility to give the keys to the Secretariat to enable them to unlock solutions and  to simplify our methods of work for increased efficiency and more impact on the ground.
26.3 The United Nations system is united around the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) of the 2030 Agenda for  Sustainable Development, and it is also our responsibility to go forward resolutely in this direction and to work together to  eradicate poverty, to ensure quality education, to adapt to and mitigate climate change, to foster research and to facilitate  connectivity through communication and information tools. On behalf of the Government of Saint Vincent and the  Grenadines, I would like to reiterate the importance that my country accords to its partnership with UNESCO. Indeed, our  national agenda recognizes the effect of climate change, the inclusiveness of education in all its diverse forms, and small  island developing States (SIDS) as a priority.
26.4 The recent disasters in our sister Caribbean islands and the debilitating effects caused by hurricanes Irma,  Maria and José remind us of the vulnerabilities of SIDS and the need for a binding global response to climate change.  We therefore look forward to strong and assertive action to address issues of climate change and disaster risk reduction  and a strong commitment to supporting the sustainability of SIDS. Indeed, within this context, Saint Vincent and the  Grenadines thanks the Secretariat and the Member States for issuing a draft declaration on ethical principles in relation  to climate change. We are looking forward to its adoption at this session of the General Conference. However, we note
232  that this declaration has taken 10 years of reflection to come to fruition. Unfortunately, we do not have another 10 years  to act upon it. Climate change with its related ethical issues is affecting us all now.
26.5 As island States, the role of oceans is of strategic importance to us. An integrated management approach of our  oceans, and a strengthened global ocean governance framework, are prerequisites for the sustainable use of these  valuable resources. Building on this, the continued support of the Intergovernmental Oceanographic Commission (IOC)  for the implementation of early warning systems for tsunamis and other marine hazards is of great importance to  vulnerable small islands like Saint Vincent and the Grenadines. The completion of this programme could mean the  difference between our survival and significant loss of life. We therefore urge greater focus on the mobilization of the  necessary funds to complete this important programme.
26.6 Mr President, the extreme vulnerability and low resilience of small island developing States are recognised by  UNESCO. In fact, the SIDS Action Plan outlines many of the steps to build resilience capacity. UNESCO is well placed  through its high-level expertise, capacity building, policy advice and mutual cooperation to implement the plan. We look  to UNESCO to redouble its efforts to identify and allocate much needed resources in this regard.
26.7 Saint Vincent and the Grenadines welcomes UNESCO’s continued support in our efforts to achieve the SDGs.  We see education as the main vehicle for economic and social change, to fight poverty, and address issues of violence  and extremism. It is our strong belief that “No child should be left behind”, and we are determined to provide meaningful  education and training opportunities for all our people. The Government of Saint Vincent and the Grenadines has already  crafted and designed policies to ensure equal access to quality education, on information technology, immediate  remedial programmes for slow learners and, with the assistance of UNESCO, on the provision of opportunities for  technical and vocational training and life-long learning.
26.8 Mr President, culture has always been an important part of our development agenda. We believe that this is best  achieved through the implementation of the cultural conventions. Saint Vincent and the Grenadines continues to benefit  tremendously from the work done through these conventions, notably the cultural diversity, intangible cultural heritage  and world heritage conventions. We urge continued support. We thank the Director-General for registering our  submission to the Memory of the World Programme, namely the records of the Indian Indentured Labourers of Saint  Vincent and the Grenadines. My country is a candidate for election to the Executive Board. If elected, Saint Vincent and  the Grenadines reiterates its commitment to continue to defend the mandate of UNESCO and to work closely with our  neighbours and friends in the Latin America and Caribbean region and with all Member States for the benefit of all and in  the best interests of the Organization. In conclusion, Mr President, inequality in the world is not new but is becoming ever  more significant – between regions, between countries and within every country. We therefore place great importance on  the efforts made in the United Nations to review the indicators related to poverty levels and to revise the situation of the  so-called middle-income countries. In this regard, we call on UNESCO to take into consideration the real needs of  countries. Capacity building is crucial to building skills and competencies for future generations in particular. Youth count  on UNESCO, and UNESCO should count on youth. We hope that the new Director-General will give young people the  priority they deserve – they are our hope for the future and for a better world. Thank you very much for your attention.
27. Le Président :   Je vous remercie, Votre Excellence. Notre prochain orateur est S. E. Mme Leela Devi Dookun-Luchoomun,  Ministre de l’éducation et des ressources humaines, de l’éducation tertiaire et de la recherche scientifique de Maurice.
28.1 Ms Dookun-Luchoomun (Mauritius):   Mr President of the General Conference, Mr Chairperson of the Executive Board, Madam Director-General,  Excellencies, ladies and gentlemen, greetings from the people and Government of the Republic of Mauritius. On behalf  of my delegation and in my own name, allow me to extend our sincere congratulations to you, Madam President Alaoui,  on your accession to the presidency of the 39th session of the General Conference. I would also like to thank your  predecessor, Mr Stanley Simataa, for his contributions and for having skilfully guided discussions during his tenure of  office.
28.2 Mr President, we tend to believe that we are living in a challenging time in the history of humanity but in fact  challenges have dotted the landscape at all times in history. Today, however, the magnitude of problems is enormous.  Economic and social vulnerability is, sadly, still a reality in many parts of the world. There is no let-up in environmental  concerns, while conflict and insecurity have exacerbated the issue of massive human mobility and the consequent  refugee crisis. All of this is happening despite the advances in scientific and technological domains and the expansion of  knowledge. The universal cry today is for more equal, more inclusive and more just societies. But we are not there yet.  And we must strive to get there.
28.3 Mr President, UNESCO today facilitates the coordination, support and implementation of Sustainable  Development Goal (SDG) 4 of the 2030 Agenda, and rightly so. The centrality of education in the attainment of the SDGs  and their targets is unquestioned today. As Minister of Education, I am glad to state that Mauritius has already come up  with a bold and innovative reform agenda in this sector, commensurate with the pledge and commitment to bring about  an inclusive and equitable quality education which promotes lifelong learning opportunities for all. The nine-year  continuous basic education reform enunciated in my address two years ago before this very assembly has been  successfully implemented and is being pursued in a cohesive and effective manner. A revisited curriculum and novel  pedagogies in digital classrooms are a reality, the impact of which will definitely be more strongly felt in a few years. It is  worth recalling that this reform package cuts across all the sub-sectors of education and training, from pre-primary level  through to technical and vocational education and training (TVET) and higher education. In Mauritius, we are fortunate  that through sound policy decisions the hurdles posed by lack of access to education are well behind us. What is of  paramount importance, however, is to tackle what UNESCO itself has defined as the “learning crisis”. Schooling must
233  mean learning, and learning in turn must become a precursor to lifelong learning. That implies, among other things,  investing in making teachers more pedagogically prepared and motivated. It also implies coming up with informed and  evidence-based policies as well as sound investment in learning environments and resources. Sustainable development  has to become the centrepiece of all education policies.
28.4 At this juncture, Mr President, let me seize the opportunity to highlight that we are appreciative of UNESCO  maintaining Africa as a global priority. There is indeed a dire need to fortify the continent’s drive towards educational  emancipation. The fact remains that Africa calls for a sustained and increased effort on the part of UNESCO in the fields  of education, science and technology. Thus, we are all strongly validating the significance of science, technology,  engineering and mathematics (STEM) to drive innovation in Africa.
28.5 Mr President, culture is the other important yardstick by which we gauge the impact of UNESCO’s interventions.  I am glad that the traditional Mauritian Sega Tipik and the Bhojpuri folk songs, Geet-Gawai, are now part of the intangible  cultural heritage of humanity. We are also proud that a visually impaired Mauritian student and artist, Jane Constance,  has recently been designated as a UNESCO Artist for Peace. My delegation commends the efforts of UNESCO towards  small island developing States (SIDS). It is unfortunate that SIDS continue to bear the negative impact of climate change  that de facto affects adversely and directly peace and national security. No country is immune to the risks of climate  change and environmental degradation. International cooperation is the key to responding to this threat. Mauritius makes  a plea for an even greater contribution by UNESCO to SIDS in mitigating the devastating impact of climate change. It is  important for the sake of equity that the financial burden and economic costs of climate change mitigation and adaptation  should be borne by countries that are most responsible for this state of affairs. The principle of common but differentiated  responsibilities should also apply. For small island developing States like Mauritius, this principle is a cardinal one.  (The speaker continues in French)
28.6 Permettez-moi, Monsieur le Président, d’exprimer toute notre appréciation pour les progrès accomplis par notre  Organisation pendant les deux mandats de S. E. Mme Irina Bokova en tant que Directrice générale de l’UNESCO. Je  salue ses initiatives, en particulier sa bataille pour la protection et la restauration des sites du patrimoine culturel et son  engagement en faveur de l’égalité des genres et de la promotion des sciences et des mathématiques.   (L’oratrice poursuit en anglais)
28.7 I would also like here to congratulate Ms Audrey Azoulay for her nomination as Director-General of our  prestigious Organization, and I trust that she will further consolidate our Organization’s global reach and impact. In  conclusion, let us applaud UNESCO for its contribution to global peace and security through the implementation of its  core programmes. Mauritius will spare no effort in strengthening its strong bond and identifying with UNESCO’s mandate  as stated in the Mauritian “Vision 2030” blueprint.   (The speaker continues in French)
28.8 Nous sommes donc convaincus que l’UNESCO saura épauler et soutenir les efforts des pays membres et ainsi  contribuer à la réalisation des Objectifs de développement durable. Je vous remercie, Monsieur le Président.
29. Le Président :   Je vous remercie, Votre Excellence. Notre prochain orateur est S. E. Mme Aishath Shiham, Ministre de  l’éducation des Maldives.
30.1 Ms Shiham (Maldives):   Mr President, Director-General, Mr Chairperson of the Executive Board, Honourable Ministers, distinguished  delegates. It is my pleasure and privilege to join others in warmly congratulating you, Madam President Alaoui, on your  election as the president of the 39th session of the General Conference of UNESCO. I wish you every success in your  new role. May I also take this opportunity to express our deep appreciation to the Director-General, Ms Irina Bokova, for  her unrelenting efforts to reform UNESCO towards the noble causes of peace and shared prosperity.
30.2 Mr President, in 2015 the adoption of the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development by the world leaders at the
70th Session of the United Nations General Assembly created a platform for building on the achievements of the  Millennium Development Goals (MDGs) and tackling new challenges. Maldives is committed to work with the rest of the  world and international partners to take the bold and necessary steps needed to build on the six out of the eight MDGs  that we achieved. We stand firmly resolved to fulfil the rest.
30.3 Due to the high value that our Government places on investing in education and the fact that the Government  now offers free education to all children in Maldives between the ages of 4 to 18, we have shown remarkable progress  and improvements in our education indicators: the adult literacy rate is 98.4%; two years of early childhood education  have been made compulsory and available for free in all inhabited islands across the country. As a result, the net  enrolment of early childhood education has made remarkable progress from 51.2% in 2001 to 99.6% in 2016. The  Maldives has achieved gender parity in education from preschool to secondary level. Higher secondary enrolment has  increased substantially over the period 2013-2016 after the successful implementation of the “no child left behind” policy.  Around 90% of our students complete their secondary education by taking the GCE O-Level and SSC examinations.  Continued investment and hard work of the many dedicated staff in the education system and other stakeholders has led  to an increase in the students’ pass percentage in GCE O-Level subjects from 27% in 2009 to 70% in 2016. The  Maldives recognized education as a universal human right as far back as 1932 when its first written constitution was  ratified. Now it has become the first nation in the region to provide 12 years of compulsory education and 14 years of free  schooling for all students. While we are proud of our achievements, sustaining and improving the quality of education  requires new innovative strategies. The Government has embarked upon fundamental educational reforms in order to
234  align the policy aspects to the national development agenda. Such reform initiatives include the implementation of a new  value-based school curriculum with special focus on skills development; implementation of school-based management  and monitoring systems, setting up a minimum qualification for teachers with continuous upgrading of their skills.  Strategies to improve the utilization of enabling platforms such as e-learning in schools, and initiatives for health  screening and child protection within the school system, are of equal importance.
30.4 Mr President, we believe that investing in people is the best way to promote human rights, the best way to  guarantee a brighter future for the generations to come, and the best way to ensure that the democracy gains we have  made are consolidated and further enhanced. That is why President Abdullah Yameen Abdul Gayoom’s Government  continues on a national development agenda that is based on empowerment of the people: empowerment of youth,  empowerment of children, and the empowerment of women.
30.5 Mr President, ladies and gentleman, meeting the environmental goals is especially critical to our country,  considering the heavy reliance of the Maldivian economy on its environmental resources. Therefore, much work is being  done towards meeting environmental sustainability, although the country remains geographically vulnerable to climate  change and environmental issues. Together with other small island developing States (SIDS) and international partners,  we are working in good faith to execute the Paris Agreement that we signed in December 2015. Protecting and  safeguarding our natural heritage, especially our underwater heritage, is another priority. I appreciate UNESCO’s  inclusion of scientific issues such as ocean sustainability and climate change in its programmes. I would like to make  special mention that Baa Atoll of the Maldives has for the first time been listed on the World Network of Biosphere  Reserves (WNBR). We are also working towards placing one of our key heritage sites, the Friday Mosque, on the World  Heritage List.
30.6 Mr President, Excellencies, ladies and gentlemen, half of the world’s population is under the age of 25. Maldives  is no exception. Our population is very young. Many of the young Maldivians require knowledge and skills necessary for  today’s work. Hence, the Government of Maldives has started an ambitious and successful skills development  programme to train our young people for employment. I acknowledge UNESCO’s commitment to youth development,  and supporting youth participation in national development, which is critical for a small island developing State like  Maldives. Let me conclude by reaffirming Maldives’s commitment to the high ideals that UNESCO stands for and to  creating a better world for all. Thank you for your attention.
31. Le Président :   Merci beaucoup, Votre Excellence. Notre prochain orateur est S. E. Mme Khatuna Totladze, Vice-Ministre des  affaires étrangères de Géorgie.
32.1 Ms Totladze (Georgia):    Mr President of the General Conference, Madam Director-General, distinguished delegates, it is my honour to  address you today from this high tribune, and on behalf of my Government, to express our appreciation to Ms Irina  Bokova, Director-General of UNESCO, for her commitment to the goals of the Organization and her consistent support to  Member States. Let me also express my sincere congratulations to Ms Audrey Azoulay and wish her success in meeting  effectively the challenges the Organization is facing, continuing and intensifying the reform process with the aim to uplift  the credibility of UNESCO, making it more efficient and results-driven.
32.2 This year, 2017, is the 25th anniversary of the solid ties of cooperation that exist between Georgia and UNESCO  in all fields of competence of the Organization. Throughout these years, we have had the firm support of UNESCO in  advancing innovative policies in education, science and culture, and at the same time spared no effort in promoting the  image and core values of the Organization.
32.3 Distinguished delegates, we fully share the new approaches and ambitious steps towards implementation of the
2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development and acknowledge UNESCO’s paramount role in this regard. Guided by  ambition at the global level, Georgia has incorporated the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) into its national goals,  aligning them with the country’s strategic priorities. Georgia’s commitment to ensuring implementation of the SDGs, and  its efforts to promote just, peaceful, equitable and inclusive societies with a special focus on collaboration between the  Government and civil society, determined the successful involvement of the country in the Open Government Partnership  (OGP). Moreover, Georgia’s chairship of the OGP since October 2017 is a clear expression of the country’s  achievements, reforms and future plans. We believe that SDG 4 is at the core of the 2030 Agenda. According to the  Georgian Government’s four-point plan and the SDG 4 objectives, the modernization of our education system is a main  priority. Our commitment to make the education system flexible, modern, inclusive and accessible to all, oriented on  quality and equality, is ensured by the increased State budget and the continued support of European Union and partner  countries.
32.4 Cultural diversity and protection of cultural heritage are among other priorities for our country. International  cooperation, and particularly UNESCO’s active and direct involvement in this process, is of utmost importance. I cannot  avoid mentioning the exceptional cooperation between Georgia and the World Heritage Centre. Let me take this  opportunity to thank the Centre for its continued support and recognition of our efforts in implementing the World  Heritage Convention. As a country of rich and diverse culture, Georgia has focused its efforts on implementing the
2003 Convention for the Safeguarding of the Intangible Cultural Heritage. While recognizing the importance of fulfilling  the provisions of the Convention, we have improved the legal framework and established an effective inventory and  management system at the national level. These efforts have enabled Georgia to gain solid experience in this regard  over many years. Today, based on this knowledge, we are ready to share our experiences, and to provide expertise and  assistance at the international level. With this in mind, Georgia is currently a candidate for election to the  Intergovernmental Committee for the Safeguarding of the Intangible Cultural Heritage for the period 2018-2022.
32.5 Distinguished delegates, we express our grave concern over the deliberate destruction of cultural heritage and  violent extremism which targets the cultural inheritance of humankind as part of a strategy of cultural cleansing. We  further encourage efforts and more efficient activities to be undertaken by UNESCO towards safeguarding cultural  heritage under attack and other emergency situations. This issue is of utmost importance to our country. The facts of  deliberate destruction of cultural heritage in occupied territories of Georgia, looting and illicit trade of cultural artefacts, as  well as the grave violation of the rights of ethnic Georgians residing in the occupied territories, who are deprived of the  right to receive education in their native language, has been an issue of deep concern for many years. Acknowledging  UNESCO’s paramount role and its commitment to mitigate threats to cultural heritage worldwide, we once again  underline the need for more effective measures to be taken to preserve cultural heritage in the occupied regions of  Georgia, Abkhazia and the Tskhinvali region/South Ossetia. Ladies and gentlemen, in concluding allow me to express  my firm confidence that our joint efforts will enable UNESCO to become the most efficient platform for building  sustainable, inclusive and peaceful societies. Thank you for your kind attention.
33. Le Président :    Je vous remercie, Votre Excellence. Notre prochain orateur est S. E. Mme Robyn Baker, Présidente de la  Commission nationale néo-zélandaise pour l’UNESCO.
34.1 Ms Baker (New Zealand):   Mr President, Madam Director-General, distinguished delegates, ladies and gentlemen. Tihe mauri ora. Te  whare etu nei, tena koe. Te papa i waho nei, tena koe. Te mana whenua o tenei rohe, tena koutou. Te hunga mate ki te  hunga mate, haere. Te hunga ora ki a tatou te hunga ora. Tena koutou, tena koutou, tena tatou katoa. We greet this  house, we greet this land, we greet the people here. We think of those who have gone before us, we give thanks for  those of us here today. Greetings to each of you, from New Zealand.
34.2 Mr President, UNESCO’s mandate is as relevant today as it was in 1946 when New Zealand was the second  member to sign up to the Organization. Today I want to share with you some of our priorities for engagement with  UNESCO through the National Commission, which I chair, and through our Permanent Delegation based in Paris. New  Zealand supports the achievement of the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), and will continue to play its part in  meeting the high level of ambition set out in the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development. We recognise the  importance of UNESCO’s leadership of SDG 4 on education. ln response to this goal, domestic efforts include the  strengthening of support for global citizenship education. Just a few weeks ago, we launched a global citizenship  education award. This is open to both the education sector and community groups, and will enable us to celebrate, share  and learn from the outstanding innovations that are taking place in our country. As a small distant country surrounded by  oceans, New Zealand was a strong advocate for the inclusion of an SDG on oceans and marine reserves in the 2030  Agenda for Sustainable Development. At UNESCO we value the work that the Intergovernmental Oceanographic  Commission (IOC) is doing to advance SDG 14 and we will continue to engage in this Commission to help it play its part  in conserving and sustainably using the oceans, seas and marine reserves for sustainable development. We have a  proverb in Maori that captures well our deep connection to the Ocean: Toitü te marae a tane-mahuta, toitü te marae a  tangaroa, toitü te tangata. This means “If the land is well and the sea is well, the people will thrive”.
34.3 Mr President, New Zealand will continue to advocate for UNESCO to maintain a focus on achieving outcomes  for the Pacific including through the Subregional Office in Apia for the Pacific States with whom we work closely. It is our  conviction that the Pacific is a region with rich cultural diversity and a unique experience that can make a significant  contribution to UNESCO’s mandate for the benefit of its broader membership as well as for the Pacific region itself. It is  consequently in the interests of UNESCO that the Pacific voice be represented in UNESCO’s governance bodies. That is  why New Zealand is happy to announce that it will support the Cook Islands in its bid for election to the Executive Board,  and Australia for the World Heritage Committee.
34.4 Mr President, the New Zealand National Commission for UNESCO has identified its priorities and focus for the  coming years within its programme of work. Some of these include: supporting a thriving national Memory of the World  Programme; establishing a UNESCO Global Geoparks programme that responds to increased awareness of the  intersection between natural heritage, culture and sustainability; contributing to the UNESCO Creative Cities Network.   Two of our cities are now designated: Dunedin, a City of Literature, and this week Auckland was designated as a  UNESCO Creative City of Music to mark the role of music as the public’s voice in times of social activism and celebration.  We also have an active UNESCO Chairs network in a range of disciplines across New Zealand. Furthermore, we will  also continue to seek collaborative opportunities with the National Commissions in our region and beyond,  acknowledging the strength of the network of National Commissions in progressing the goals of UNESCO.
34.5 Mr President, New Zealand is a proud multicultural country, with our strength based on a bicultural foundation  underpinned by the recognition of indigeneity. We recognise and celebrate the value of language, indigenous knowledge  and ways of understanding the world. Protecting, promoting and revitalizing matauranga Maori or indigenous Maori  knowledge is critical to the integrity, mana and vitality of Maori as the indigenous people of New Zealand, strengthening  our sense of history and identity. ln February 2018, we will be giving our support to the Waka Odyssey initiative, a mass  assembly of waka hourua, or ocean canoes, in Wellington harbour. These waka carry stories, art, science, knowledge,  whakapapa (genealogy) and performance. When the waka arrives, it seeks relationships, contact and togetherness. This  is the manifestation of all that UNESCO works towards. New Zealand recognizes UNESCO’s important contribution to  indigenous voices in shaping a better future, and encourages UNESCO to redouble its efforts in this area. ln the field of  the protection of cultural property, we urge the Organization to lift its efforts and take a principled stand when necessary.
34.6 Mr President, we would like to conclude by acknowledging the Director-General, Ms lrina Bokova, for her  contribution to UNESCO over her two mandates in often challenging circumstances. It was a particular pleasure for us to
236  have welcomed her in 2015 in Auckland on her way to the small island developing States (SIDS) conference in Samoa,  and we have valued the willingness to listen, understand and advocate for the interests of the Pacific during her tenure.  This was again manifested in the productive meeting we had with her last night as part of the Asia and the Pacific Group  (ASPAC). Thank you for all you have done. We very much look forward to working with the new Director-General,  Ms Audrey Azoulay, as she builds on the efforts of her predecessors to ensure the Organization is as effective as  possible. No rei ra, tena koutou, tena koutou, tena tatou katoa.
35. Le Président :   Je vous remercie, Votre Excellence. Notre prochain orateur est S. E. M. Elnur Sultanov, Secrétaire général de la  Commission nationale azerbaïdjanaise pour l’UNESCO.
36.1 Mr Sultanov (Azerbaijan):   Mr President of the General Conference, Mr Chairperson of the Executive Board, Madam Director-General,  Excellencies, ladies and gentlemen, at the outset, I should like to congratulate Ms Zohour Alaoui on her assumption of  the residency of the General Conference at its 39th session and to wish her every success in fulfilling that highly  responsible duty. We are also grateful to the outgoing President, Mr Stanley Mutumba Simataa, for all his hard work. I  should also like to thank the Director-General of UNESCO, Ms Irina Bokova, for her able leadership during the past eight  years and to congratulate Ms Audrey Azoulay on her nomination as the new Director-General of this Organization.
36.2 Ladies and gentlemen, against the background of various threats and challenges facing the world nowadays, it  is critical to persistently stress the importance of concerted actions aimed at promoting cultural diversity, enhancing the  quality of education and encouraging dialogue and mutual respect. In these circumstances, we all recognize the  relevance of our Organization. We all have to be united around the soft power of UNESCO in order to struggle against  negative tendencies. It is important to ensure much stronger coherence and cooperation among Member States, the  Director-General and the Secretariat for the sake of addressing the crucial challenges ahead of us. As a laboratory of  ideas, UNESCO should be a genuinely multilateral and inclusive environment where all Member States should stand  together for a culture of peace. The way to succeed in increasing the efficiency of the Organization lies in tangible  reforms. We are of the strong view that these reforms should be in line with the overall United Nations reform process.  We have to avoid duplication within United Nations agencies. The main guide for us is the core mandate of UNESCO as  clearly outlined in its Constitution – education, science, culture and communication.
36.3 Madam President, education is one of the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) in the 2030 Agenda for  Sustainable Development, and UNESCO is actively involved in the implementation of this particular SDG. My  Government has been realizing targeted measures to attain this goal. We call upon Member States to further support  UNESCO in implementation of this SDG, particularly to foster the role of education to prevent violent extremism and  radicalization. Unresolved armed conflicts, terrorism, violent extremism, aggressive separatism, intolerance and  discrimination on ethnic and religious grounds continue to represent the most serious challenges and are among the  main obstacles to peace and development. It is with profound regret that I must underline that UNESCO’s values and  principles remain blatantly violated by the ongoing military occupation of the territories of Azerbaijan by the armed forces  of Armenia. As a result of cultural cleansing carried out by Armenia, all historical and cultural monuments, heritage sites,  schools, mosques and cemeteries have been barbarically destroyed or desecrated in the occupied territories of  Azerbaijan, and in Armenia itself. It is important for the international community to redouble its efforts to protect cultural  heritage in armed conflicts. In this regard, Azerbaijan welcomes the adoption in March 2017 of United Nations Security  Council resolution 2347 (2017). As the principal United Nations agency in this domain, UNESCO is entitled to contribute  more to the implementation of this resolution.
36.4 Mr President, Azerbaijan actively supports the Strategy for the reinforcement of UNESCO’s action for the  protection of culture and the promotion of cultural pluralism in the event of armed conflict. Moreover, as a member of  both the UNESCO Committee for the Protection of Cultural Property in the Event of Armed Conflict and the World  Heritage Committee, Azerbaijan efficiently contributes to this issue. I should like to emphasize that with our financial  contribution, the “Protection of Cultural Heritage Military Manual” was prepared by UNESCO and the San Remo  International Institute of Humanitarian Law.
36.5 Ladies and gentlemen, this year we celebrate the 25th anniversary of relations between UNESCO and  Azerbaijan. My country is fully committed to the ideals and values of this Organization. Thus, the framework agreement  on cooperation between UNESCO and Azerbaijan signed in 2013 is yet further proof of such commitment. This includes  supporting UNESCO in such priority areas as girls’ education, safeguarding tangible and intangible cultural heritage,  science and innovation technologies and disaster risk preparedness in least developed countries in Africa, Asia and Latin  America. Several projects have been successfully implemented through funds-in-trust and we are keen to continue in the  same spirit. Located between the two great continents of Asia and Europe, Azerbaijan is a unique place, where East  meets West, where the world’s main religions peacefully coexist, and where the values and traditions of different cultures  harmoniously complement each other. As a strong advocate of intercultural dialogue and multiculturalism, which is a  State policy priority in Azerbaijan, my country spares no efforts in sharing its rich experience with other members of the  international community. We are proud to state that the Baku Process, launched in 2008 by the President of the Republic  of Azerbaijan, His Excellency Mr Ilham Aliyev, has become a globally recognized platform for the promotion of  intercultural dialogue. As a part of this process, this year Azerbaijan hosted the fourth Baku World Forum on Intercultural  Dialogue, in which UNESCO was a main partner along with other United Nations and relevant international agencies. It is  not a coincidence that the 7th Global Forum of the United Nations Alliance of Civilizations was also held last year in  Azerbaijan.
36.6 In the context of relationships between UNESCO and the Republic of Azerbaijan, I am delighted to underline the  valuable contribution of Her Excellency, Ms Mehriban Aliyeva, First Vice President of the Republic of Azerbaijan and  UNESCO Goodwill Ambassador, to bringing this cooperation to an even more intensive and dynamic level, reaching new  horizons of partnership for the advancement of the ideals of peace and security. Distinguished delegates, Azerbaijan  spares no effort to bridge different continents politically, economically and culturally. Just a few days ago, we inaugurated  the Baku-Tbilisi-Kars railroad connecting Asia to Europe as part of the restoration of the ancient Silk Road, thereby  providing more opportunities for the rapprochement of cultures. All of this derives from our vision and inspires us to  further promote UNESCO’s values and ensure peace and development in the region. Thank you for your attention.
(38.1) M. Al-Jama (Somalie) (traduit de l’arabe) :   Votre Excellence, Monsieur le Président de la Conférence générale, Votre Excellence, Monsieur le Président du  Conseil exécutif, Votre Excellence, Madame la Directrice générale de l’UNESCO, Excellences, Mesdames et Messieurs, que  la paix et la miséricorde et la bénédiction de Dieu soient sur vous. Permettez-moi, tout d’abord, de vous transmettre les  salutations de Son Excellence le Président de la Somalie, M. Mohamed Abdullahi Farmajo, de Son Excellence le Président du  Conseil des ministres, M. Hassan Ali Khayre et de Son Excellence le Ministre de l’éducation, de la culture et de  l’enseignement supérieur, M. Abdi Tahir Othman. Souhaitons que les travaux de la 39e session de la Conférence générale
238  soient couronnés de succès, afin de satisfaire les nobles aspirations de nos peuples. Nous saisissons cette occasion pour  transmettre nos remerciements sincères à la Directrice générale de l’UNESCO, S. E. Mme Irina Bokova, et à tout le personnel  de l’Organisation pour les efforts qu’ils déploient afin de mettre en œuvre des programmes de qualité et de réaliser les  objectifs du Programme de développement durable à l’horizon 2030. Nous adressons en outre nos félicitations les plus  sincères à la France pour la nomination de sa candidate, Mme Audrey Azoulay, au poste de Directeur général de l’UNESCO.  Nous lui souhaitons tous les succès.
(38.2) Mesdames et Messieurs, la Somalie a commencé, petit à petit, à se rétablir de la crise qui l’a tourmentée pendant plus  de 20 ans. Elle est passée officiellement d’un modèle de gouvernement de transition à un modèle de gouvernement fédéral, et  elle a réussi à instaurer le principe du passage démocratique et paisible des pouvoirs depuis 2000. Le Gouvernement fédéral  somalien tente d’opérer un changement positif à tous les niveaux de la vie et de satisfaire les exigences de la feuille de route  politique, en particulier l’élaboration d’une Constitution permanente pour le pays, la conception d’un système électoral  démocratique direct qui jouisse du consensus de toutes les composantes de la société somalienne, l’amélioration de la  performance des institutions gouvernementales et des organes financiers, et la lutte contre la corruption.
(38.3) Nul n’ignore les graves défis sécuritaires et intellectuels auxquels a été confronté le peuple somalien, en particulier les  actes de terrorisme utilisés pour terroriser les citoyens somaliens par tous les moyens au nom de la religion, dans le but  d’étendre l’anarchie et la destruction à tous les aspects de la vie et d’affaiblir la sécurité et la stabilité partout dans le pays, en  y empêchant la marche du développement. Les deux derniers attentats terroristes dans la capitale, Mogadiscio, en octobre  dernier, se sont soldés par l’assassinat de plus de 300 citoyens innocents et des centaines de blessés, qui n’avaient commis  aucun crime. Nous saisissons cette occasion pour exprimer nos remerciements les plus profonds et notre pleine appréciation  aux pays et aux institutions qui ont dénoncé et condamné ces actes terroristes, ainsi qu’aux pays qui sont venus à notre  secours sur le terrain dès les premiers instants pour alléger notre immense malheur.
(38.4) Mesdames et Messieurs, les dirigeants et le Gouvernement fédéral de la Somalie accordent un intérêt particulier,  voire fondamental, à l’éducation et met tout en œuvre pour généraliser celle-ci en tant que droit pour tous les Somaliens,  garçons et filles. L’objectif poursuivi et multiple : développer l’éducation et rehausser son niveau de façon globale, selon un  plan bien défini dans le temps ; développer les ressources de la jeunesse sur le plan national et faire en sorte qu’elle maîtrise  la pensée scientifique et sache utiliser de façon compétente les ressources naturelles non exploitées dont la Somalie dispose ;  et former des générations savantes qui soient capables de contribuer effectivement au processus de développement du pays  et de s’adapter aux changements locaux et mondiaux avec compétence et efficacité.
(38.5) Mesdames et Messieurs, après une longue réflexion sur les moyens de contribuer à une sortie de crise, en  coopération avec les diverses autorités, nous sommes parvenus à la conclusion que l’une des meilleures façons de soutenir la  stabilité et le développement durable en Somalie était de promouvoir l’éducation ; oui, l’éducation. Compte tenu de l’écart  immense qui existe entre les besoins, d’une part, et le soutien interne et externe disponible pour ce secteur essentiel, d’autre  part, et après de longues discussions, nous sommes arrivés à l’idée qu’il conviendrait d’organiser une conférence des  donateurs pour l’éducation en Somalie. Cette idée a été favorablement et chaleureusement accueillie par le Koweït fraternel,  que nous remercions, puisque c’est dans ce pays que se déroulera cette conférence en 2018. À cet égard, nous voudrions  saluer et remercier vivement les dirigeants, le Gouvernement et le peuple du Koweït, et en premier lieu S. A. le Cheikh Sabah  al-Ahmed al-Jaber al-Sabah, Émir du Koweït, en qui la communauté internationale, dans sa grande majorité, voit un leader  mondial de l’aide humanitaire. Cela témoigne de la reconnaissance, par le monde entier, de l’importance de Son Altesse dans  le cadre de ce processus et des contributions du peuple koweïtien au niveau mondial. Nos remerciements vont également à  l’Organisation arabe pour l’éducation, la culture et les sciences (ALECSO) et à l’Organisation islamique pour l’éducation, les  sciences et la culture (ISESCO) pour le soutien important qu’elles ont apporté à cette initiative de grande qualité. Sur cette  base, nous prions l’UNESCO, tous les États membres et les institutions donatrices internationales de contribuer  énergiquement à la tenue et au succès d’une conférence des donateurs en faveur du secteur de l’éducation en Somalie.
(38.6) Mesdames et Messieurs, en conclusion, nous saluons et remercions vivement le Secrétariat et tout son personnel  pour la bonne préparation de cette session, et adressons à la Conférence nos meilleurs vœux de plein succès pour ses  travaux. Puissent-ils atteindre les objectifs désirés ! Que la paix et la miséricorde et la bénédiction de Dieu soient sur vous.
39. Le Président :   Je vous remercie, Votre Excellence. Notre prochain orateur est S. E. M. Claude Tupou, Chef exécutif pour  l’éducation et la formation auprès du Ministère de l’éducation et de la formation des Tonga.
40.1 Mr Tupou (Tonga):   Mr President, may I start by registering a sincere apology from Tonga’s Minister of Education, Honourable  Penisimani Fifita, who is unable to be present today for this session of the General Conference. To Her Excellency,  Ms Zohour Alaoui, I congratulate you on your appointment to the presidency of this 39th session of the General  Conference of UNESCO. Mr Chairperson of the Executive Board and Madam Director-General, Ms Irina Bokova, I  commend you both for your efforts and unrelenting leadership in steering the reforms and UNESCO goals of peace and  shared prosperity for each Member State.
40.2 It is an honour for me to address this 39th session of the General Conference of UNESCO. As Member States,  we all hail from different parts of this globe, which means that depending on location, size, culture and level of  development, we will view our individual State’s transformations and progress through different lenses. However, no  matter where we live, we all share the same basic needs as a human nation, and I believe that this is worth the existence  of a collective organization such as UNESCO. With its goals and mandates, UNESCO has become an essential tool, not  only for the development and progress of its Member States, but for some of us, its survival as well. Tonga aligns itself  with UNESCO’s goals, in particular with regard to cultural heritage, education, environment and science. In terms of  cultural heritage, Tonga looks forward to UNESCO’s enhanced role in protecting and preserving its cultural heritage and  sites. In terms of education and science, Tonga supports the “education for the twenty-first century” theme and fully  supports the global Education 2030 Agenda through Sustainable Development Goal (SDG) 4.
40.3 Having highlighted the fact that our States are different, with different advantages and disadvantages, Tonga is  of the view that it is inevitable and fitting that implementation of the SDGs are tailored to suit the circumstances and level
239  of each particular Member State. One example that I can point to where my country may differ from other Member States  is in terms of gender equality in education. Statistics show that enrolment at universal basic education level is 51% male  and 49% female. At the post universal basic education level, the enrolment rate is 49% male and 51% female. For  postgraduate and undergraduate degrees and diploma holders, the rate is 49% male and 51% female. Accordingly, in  terms of a course of action for Tonga in education, the need is one of availability of opportunities for education rather  than gender equality.
40.4 In terms of the environment, Tonga is in agreement that climate change is the defining challenge for all of us. To  a large degree, it is felt more by our small island developing States (SIDS) as opposed to larger developed Member  States. Tonga has not been free from challenges in the implementation of some of UNESCO’s programmes. It is  proposed that a way of tackling these challenges could potentially be met by ensuring that they are appropriate and  fitting to each State. In order for the principles and mandates of this collective Organization to be relevant and focused, it  needs to address the specifics of its Member States, be it in terms of cultural heritage, education or environment.  Mr President, Madam Director-General, distinguished delegates, on behalf of the Government of Tonga I reaffirm the  significance that Tonga holds in its partnership with UNESCO and its commitment to working together to bring about a  sustainable future for all. Thank you very much.
41. Le Président :   Je vous remercie, Votre Excellence. Notre prochaine oratrice est S. E. Mme Élaine Ayotte, Ambassadeur,  Déléguée permanente du Canada auprès de l’UNESCO.
42.1 Ms Ayotte (Canada):   Mr President, Madam Director-General, Excellencies, ladies and gentlemen. The United Nations is the only  forum we have to address collectively today’s global challenges. It is the convenor and enabler of global solutions.  Canada supports the United Nations Secretary-General in his vision for the United Nations and its reform. We need a  United Nations that is more responsive at all levels. Today, UNESCO remains an essential part of the United Nations. It  needs to connect to overall reform efforts. It needs to focus on its areas of comparative advantage. It needs to  demonstrate results. It needs to enhance its credibility. It needs to regain its serenity. It also needs to be adequately  supported by its Member States. For this reason, Canada pays its assessed contributions in full, on time, and without  pre-conditions.  (The speaker continues in French)
42.2 Monsieur le Président, Monsieur le Vice-Président, j’ai l’honneur de représenter un pays dont les valeurs  trouvent largement écho dans le mandat de l’UNESCO. Notre Premier Ministre, Justin Trudeau, et son Gouvernement  croient en l’égalité entre toutes les personnes, quels que soient leur genre, leur origine et leurs orientations sexuelles. Le  Canada a récemment adopté une politique d’aide internationale féministe. Pour nous, l’égalité entre les genres n’est pas  seulement une question de justice et d’équité sociale. Elle est surtout le meilleur moyen de réduire la pauvreté et de bâtir  un monde plus inclusif, plus pacifique et plus prospère. L’UNESCO doit redoubler d’efforts pour promouvoir l’égalité des  genres dans la mise en œuvre de ses grands programmes, y compris en développant une meilleure expertise  intersectorielle.
42.3 Dans le domaine de l’éducation, l’UNESCO a su s’imposer comme la plate-forme de suivi de la mise en œuvre  de l’ODD 4 du Programme 2030. Le Canada souligne ici l’importance de l’Institut de statistique de l’UNESCO basé à  Montréal, ainsi que du Rapport mondial de suivi sur l’éducation, comme outils essentiels pour rendre compte des  progrès réalisés quant à nos engagements.
42.4 La place des femmes dans les sciences est un autre sujet d’importance. Tôt dans sa carrière, notre  Gouverneure générale, Julie Payette, a reçu des bourses qui lui ont permis de devenir astronaute. Elle a notamment été  ingénieure de vol de la navette spatiale Endeavour. Il faut porter une attention toute particulière aux femmes en début de  carrière scientifique. Le Gouvernement du Canada et celui du Québec soutiennent donc fièrement les efforts de  l’UNESCO visant à promouvoir une nouvelle génération de femmes scientifiques, notamment dans les pays à faible et  moyen revenu.
42.5 Un environnement sûr pour les journalistes et les travailleurs des médias est une pierre angulaire des  démocraties. À cet égard, l’UNESCO est le coordonnateur principal de la mise en œuvre du Plan d’action des Nations  Unies sur la sécurité des journalistes et la question de l’impunité. Là aussi, une approche sensible au genre est  essentielle car les femmes journalistes sont confrontées à une double vulnérabilité et sont fréquemment victimes  d’intimidations et d’autres formes de violence.
42.6 Tout aussi essentielle est la promotion d’un Internet accessible et libre d’entraves, s’appuyant sur les droits de la  personne et un modèle de gouvernance multipartenaires.
42.7 L’UNESCO a également un rôle crucial à jouer dans la mise en œuvre du Plan d’action des Nations Unies pour  la prévention de l’extrémisme violent. L’Appel de Québec, lancé à l’issue de la Conférence Québec-UNESCO sur la  radicalisation des jeunes et Internet qui s’est tenue à l’automne 2016, encourage toutes les parties prenantes à  combattre ce phénomène. Si l’on n’implique pas les jeunes, la lutte contre l’extrémisme violent est perdue. C’est  pourquoi le Canada salue le travail mené par l’UNESCO pour favoriser l’autonomisation des jeunes. Notre  incontournable Commission nationale et l’UNESCO ont aussi rappelé l’importance des enseignants et de leur formation  lors de la Semaine de l’UNESCO pour la paix et le développement durable qui s’est tenue à Ottawa en mars dernier.
42.8 Le Canada note avec satisfaction le travail accompli par l’UNESCO dans le cadre des conventions culturelles  dont elle est dépositaire. Ces conventions sont primordiales pour la protection du patrimoine culturel et naturel de
240  l’humanité. À l’ère du numérique, la mise en œuvre de la Convention sur la protection et la promotion de la diversité des  expressions culturelles est également une priorité pour le Gouvernement du Canada et pour le Gouvernement du  Québec qui, depuis 11 ans, est actif au sein de notre délégation.   (L’oratrice poursuit en anglais)
42.9 Mr President, no country on this planet can walk away from the reality of climate change. UNESCO must  continue work in its areas of expertise. Indigenous and northern communities are particularly affected. Ten years after  the adoption of the United Nations Declaration on the Rights of Indigenous Peoples, UNESCO is finally positioned to fully  implement and respect this Declaration. Firmly engaged in a process of reconciliation with its own indigenous peoples,  the Government of Canada looks forward to UNESCO’s enhanced engagement with Canada’s First Nations, Inuit, and  Métis people. Unfortunately, racism and anti-Semitism remain scourges which afflict all societies to various degrees. It is  for this reason that Canada is working with UNESCO to advance learning about why and how the Holocaust and other  genocides can happen.   (The speaker continues in French)
42.10 Monsieur le Président, Monsieur le Vice-Président, permettez-moi de rendre hommage à Mme Irina Bokova,  championne de la parité femmes-hommes. Parmi ses multiples contributions à la tête de l’UNESCO, Mme Bokova a fait  preuve d’un engagement indéfectible en faveur du patrimoine culturel comme facteur de paix et de fondement de la  diversité culturelle des peuples. Cet engagement a été consacré par la résolution 2347 du Conseil de sécurité de l’ONU.  Enfin, je souhaite aussi féliciter chaleureusement Mme Audrey Azoulay pour sa nomination au poste de Directrice  générale. Mme Azoulay peut compter sur la délégation canadienne pour l’accompagner et pour l’appuyer sur le chemin  visant à rendre l’UNESCO plus efficace et plus ancrée dans le système onusien. Je vous remercie.
43. Le Président :   Je vous remercie, Votre Excellence. Notre prochain orateur est S. E. M. Soulaymane Mohamed, Ambassadeur  bilatéral des Comores en France.
44.1 M. Mohamed (Comores) :   Monsieur le Président de la Conférence générale, Monsieur le Président du Conseil exécutif, Madame la  Directrice générale, Mesdames et Messieurs les ministres, Mesdames et Messieurs les Ambassadeurs, Mesdames et  Messieurs, il m’échoit l’insigne honneur de prendre la parole devant vous en lieu et place de notre Ministre de  l’éducation, qui n’a pas pu prendre part à ces travaux pour des raisons indépendantes de sa volonté. Il vous prie donc  d’accepter ses sincères excuses.
44.2 Tout d’abord, je voudrais, au nom de S. E. M. Azali Assoumani, Président de l’Union des Comores, adresser à  cette auguste Assemblée les salutations du peuple et du Gouvernement comoriens. Je souhaite saisir cette occasion  pour souhaiter plein succès aux travaux de cette 39e session de la Conférence générale de l’UNESCO. Qu’il me soit  aussi permis, en ce moment solennel, de présenter à Mme l’Ambassadrice Zohour Alaoui, Présidente de la Conférence  générale, au nom de la délégation comorienne et en mon nom personnel, mes plus sincères et chaleureuses félicitations  pour sa brillante élection à cette fonction et lui exprimer mes vœux de pleine réussite dans la prestigieuse mission qui lui  a été confiée. Je saisis cette occasion pour saluer le travail remarquable accompli par S. E. M. Michael Worbs, Président  du Conseil exécutif, ainsi que les membres de cette Organisation qui y ont contribué. Je suis en outre heureux de profiter  de cette opportunité pour féliciter Mme Audrey Azoulay pour son élection à la tête de notre Organisation lors du dernier  Conseil exécutif. Nos pays, en l’élisant Directrice de notre institution, ont souhaité qu’elle puisse porter haut les valeurs  et les missions de l’UNESCO. Ils savent qu’elle aura la capacité de défendre les idéaux de notre Organisation et qu’elle  saura la faire avancer malgré les soubresauts auxquels elle est confrontée. Ils restent persuadés qu’elle saura trouver,  en ces moments difficiles, les moyens de réunir tous ses membres, quelles que soient leurs divergences, pour atteindre  les objectifs de sa charte. Il eut été impardonnable de ma part de ne pas rendre le vibrant hommage que nous devons à  Mme lrina Bokova, l’ancienne Directrice de notre Organisation, pour son action exemplaire à la tête de l’UNESCO. Elle a  su incarner ce qu’il y a de meilleur dans le multilatéralisme. Elle a relevé les défis actuels liés au développement durable,  à la protection de l’environnement, à la promotion de la paix, comme à la diffusion de la science et de la culture, pour ne  citer que les domaines les plus importants.
44.3 Monsieur le Président, en septembre 2015, l’Assemblée générale des Nations Unies a adopté les nouveaux  Objectifs de développement durable (ODD) dans le document « Transformer notre monde : le Programme de  développement durable à l’horizon 2030 », dont mon pays a fait sienne la philosophie. C’est ainsi que cette année, le
21 octobre 2017, l’Union des Comores a lancé, en collaboration avec le système des Nations Unies, les activités qui ont  permis de sensibiliser la population comorienne à ces objectifs. Elle espère donc que l’UNESCO prendra sa part dans  les programmes visant à atteindre ces objectifs, tout en renforçant les capacités de formulation et de mise en œuvre des  stratégies appropriées pour la diversification de l’offre éducative et l’amélioration de la qualité de l’enseignement et de  l’apprentissage aux Comores.
44.4 Monsieur le Président, notre Organisation fait face en ce moment à de nombreux problèmes et doit relever  plusieurs défis. Nous savons les contraintes auxquelles elle se trouve confrontée, et les moyens limités qui ne lui  permettent pas de déployer les programmes ambitieux qu’elle souhaiterait mettre en place. L’Union des Comores, en  tant que pays faisant partie des petits États insulaires en développement (PEID), exhorte Mme la Directrice générale à  mener des actions d’envergure pour leur permettre de faire face aux problèmes spécifiques qu’ils rencontrent,  notamment ceux liés aux conséquences du changement climatique.
44.5 Honorable assistance, je tenais à remercier l’UNESCO pour l’appui multiforme qu’elle accorde à notre pays et  rappelle qu’une mission s’est rendue aux Comores en juillet 2017 et a décidé d’assurer le suivi des actions suivantes,
241  pour ne citer que les plus importantes : développement d’une politique sur l’éducation au développement durable,  développement d’une politique sur les sciences, renforcement de la collecte des données dans le secteur de l’éducation  et mise en place d’un campus virtuel. Je me réjouis de l’accord de principe donné par l’UNESCO aux Comores afin de  mettre en place le campus virtuel, et formule le vœu ardent qu’il soit mis en œuvre le plus rapidement possible.
44.6 Pour terminer, je dirai que l’attachement des Comores à l’UNESCO est grand, même si nos moyens limités ne  nous ont pas toujours permis d’honorer tous nos engagements, ce dont nous nous excusons, sachant l’importance qu’il y  a pour chaque État membre de participer à l’effort financier commun. Nous savons que l’UNESCO est une structure  nécessaire pour porter les idéaux de paix, de promotion du développement durable, de l’éducation, de la science et de la  culture. Qu’il me soit donc permis de dire combien le peuple comorien apprécie le travail remarquable qui a été accompli  aux Comores par l’UNESCO. Je tiens à remercier son ancienne Directrice générale, ainsi que toutes ses équipes, et prie  notre nouvelle Directrice générale d’œuvrer pour permettre à mon pays de bénéficier encore plus du soutien et du  concours de l’UNESCO. Je vous remercie de votre attention.
45. The President:   Our next speaker is His Excellency Mr Chris Hegadorn, Chargé d’Affaires of the United States of America to  UNESCO.
46.1. Mr Hegadorn (United States of America):   Mr President of the General Conference, Madam Director-General, distinguished delegates, ladies and  gentlemen. It is an honour to represent the United States of America at this 39th session of the UNESCO General  Conference. On October 12, the Trump Administration made public its decision to withdraw from UNESCO, effective at  the end of next year. This decision was not taken lightly. It was the result of a lengthy review and a thorough consultation  throughout our Government. As we have explained to the Secretariat and to many concerned fellow Member States, our  decision was based on both practical and policy grounds.
46.2 One key factor stems directly from this body’s decision to admit the Palestinians with Member State status in this  Organization. This act was premature, politicized and distracted from efforts to promote Middle East peace by seeking to  prejudge issues that should be decided through negotiations between the parties. This action also resulted in our inability  to continue making contributions to UNESCO under provisions of United States domestic law. As a result, the United  States has accumulated arrears at UNESCO totalling more than $550 million. In addition, our decision to withdraw from  UNESCO was influenced by persistent politicization and anti-Israel bias at UNESCO. Again, we have repeatedly  expressed our concerns about this trend, both publicly and privately, and undertaken serious efforts to help the  Organization return to consensus-based decision-making. But sadly, the past several years have only witnessed a  parade of Member State decisions – at successive sessions of the Executive Board, General Conference and World  Heritage Committee meetings – that walked UNESCO further down an untenable political path.
46.3 Finally, this decision underscores our concerns about inadequate urgency to adopt necessary management  reforms and improve transparency. We all know that expenditure reporting, procurement, inordinately slow decision- making and service delivery in the field need to improve. Meanwhile, UNESCO struggles to deliver effective  programming within the scope of its core mandates because Member States insist on expanding the Organization’s work  outside that scope into programmatic areas that are, and must remain, the domains of other United Nations agencies.  We are also deeply troubled by the outcomes of the working group on governance and the direction that group appears  to be taking. These developments are likely to make governance worse, not better. Nonetheless, the United States  remains a determined advocate for the ideals under which UNESCO was founded and will continue to be a global leader  in investments, innovation and collaboration on matters related to education, science, culture and information.
46.4 Now, allow me to thank the outgoing Director-General, Ms Irina Bokova, and commend her strong efforts to  advance peace, culture and partnership across a broad array of issues. Her recognition and acknowledgements of  significant American contributions in all these areas is deeply appreciated and we wish her well in her future endeavours.  For Director-General elect, Ms Audrey Azoulay, allow us to congratulate you on your recent election and to wish you well  in what will surely be a challenging moment. We hope that UNESCO will focus on a more manageable set of issues and  programmes where its contributions are quantitatively measurable and its staff held accountable for results. Preventing  violent extremism through education is among the most critical issues of our time. UNESCO has produced a teacher- training guide and voluntary policy guidance on building resilience to terrorist ideologies and radicalization. These  practical resources should be operationalized via training workshops and other targeted and measurable steps to  implement their recommendations. We urge UNESCO to further operationalize its digital literacy initiative, which brings  its education-based approaches to the Internet and social media where terrorists have been radicalizing young people  around the world.
46.5 Rest assured, we will continue to work bilaterally and regionally on issues of relevance to this Organization and  its membership. Such issues include saving lives through the tsunami early-warning system, and preserving and  protecting cultural heritage through our global ambassador’s fund. We will continue our vigorous actions to staunch  cultural property looting and trafficking by implementing our obligations under the 1970 UNESCO Convention on the  Means of Prohibiting and Preventing the Illicit Import, Export and Transfer of Ownership of Cultural Property. We will also  promote programmes that support basic education, literacy, gender equality, press freedom and more. We will also  continue to work with United States communities that engage with UNESCO at the sub-national level. In September,  UNESCO Creative City Paducah, Kentucky, hosted the UNESCO Creative Cities of Crafts and Folk Art annual meeting,  which was the first UNESCO Creative Cities Network meeting in the United States. We were very pleased to hear the  announcement by the Director-General during this session of the General Conference that Kansas City (Missouri), San  Antonio (Texas) and Seattle (Washington) will join the network of Creative Cities for music, gastronomy and literature
242  respectively. As we emphasized at the time of our recent announcement, we intend to remain engaged while still a full  member and later as an observer, and to support related international cooperation in educational, scientific, cultural,  communication and information activities, in line with United States’ values and interests. Thank you.
47. Le Président :   Merci, Excellence. Notre prochain orateur est S. E. Mme Uyanga Sukhbaatar, Ambassadeur, déléguée  permanente de la Mongolie auprès de l’UNESCO.
48.1 Ms Sukhbaatar (Mongolia):   Mr President of the General Conference, Madam Director-General, Excellencies, Members of the Executive  Board, distinguished delegates, ladies and gentlemen, let me first and foremost congratulate Ms Audrey Azoulay for her  nomination as the Director-General of UNESCO and wish her the best of luck and success. Let me also express our  sincere gratitude and appreciation to Ms Irina Bokova, the outgoing Director-General, for her tremendous contribution to  the strengthening of peace and security around the globe over the past eight years by respecting human rights,  fundamental freedoms, justice and rule of law for the benefit of humanity, as well as strengthening international  cooperation through education, science and culture.
48.2 This year, Mongolia is celebrating the 55th anniversary of joining UNESCO. Joining UNESCO in 1962 has  helped Mongolia tremendously in achieving proper development in education, culture, science, information and  communication. Our joint efforts with UNESCO make an invaluable contribution to key areas, including: equal access to  education, the development of science, information and communication; the protection of national culture, history,  heritage and the environment; technological advances, and the strengthening of human rights and fundamental freedoms.  In recent years, we have witnessed the increase of global efforts against the effects of climate change. While  appreciating this global effort, Mongolia, based on its commitment to the international community’s efforts, has also  adopted a national 2030 sustainable development concept based on the global 2030 Agenda for Sustainable  Development adopted by the United Nations in 2015.
48.3 As with every other nation, Mongolia attaches great importance to preserving and protecting world heritage. In  the past two years, following the 38th session of the General Conference, Mongolia registered the wooden printing  blocks of “Merged Garakhiin Oron”, which in English means “Towards Attaining Wisdom”, in the Memory of the World  Asia-Pacific Programme, and also “Landscapes of Dauria” in UNESCO’s World Heritage List in a joint nomination with  the Russian Federation. Taking this opportunity, I would like to thank our Russian friends for excellent cooperation for  this nomination. This year, we have signed and ratified with UNESCO the memorandum of understanding on cooperation  between Mongolia and UNESCO for 2016-2021. At the international level, Mongolia hosted the 24th meeting of the  International Hydrological Programme’s regional steering committee for Southeast Asia and the Pacific, as well as the  subregional meeting for intangible cultural heritage safeguarding in Northeast Asia on “The Role of the Media in Raising  Awareness about Intangible Cultural Heritage”, in collaboration with the International Information and Networking Centre  for Intangible Cultural Heritage in the Asia and the Pacific Region (ICHCAP). In 2014, Mongolia revised and ratified the  law on the protection of cultural heritage in accordance with the concepts and principles of UNESCO’s conventions on  the protection of cultural heritage.
48.4 With the support of UNESCO and Japanese Funds-in-Trust, Mongolia successfully implemented a project on  capacity building for the sustainable development of Mongolian museums, organized seminars, published a museum  management handbook and inaugurated a study hall in the National Museum of Mongolia. With the support of UNESCO  and Republic of Korea Funds-in-Trust, Mongolia also organized a national consultation meeting and workshop on the  mapping of cultural and creative industries in Mongolia. This meeting significantly improved the awareness of Mongolian  authorities and knowledge of local cultural organizations. Also with the support of UNESCO, and through the Principality  of Monaco Funds-in-Trust, we have been implementing a capacity-building and awareness-raising project on preserving  and safeguarding the tomb site of Shoroon Bumbagar of Mount Maikhan in Mongolia. Therefore, let me express gratitude  to UNESCO, and the Governments of Japan, Republic of Korea, Monaco and other countries who were involved in  various projects. We should like to let UNESCO and Member States know that Mongolia remains fully committed to  UNESCO and its ideology. We will work further towards contributing to the Organization’s efficiency and promoting its  activities. Ladies and gentleman, I thank you all for your kind attention.
49. Le Président :   Merci beaucoup Mme Sukhbaatar. Notre prochain orateur est S. E. Mme Tran Thi Hoang Mai, Ambassadeur,  déléguée permanente du Viet Nam auprès de l’UNESCO.
50.1 Mme Tran (Viet Nam) :  Excellences, Mesdames et Messieurs les chefs de délégation, Monsieur le Président de la Conférence  générale, Monsieur le Président du Conseil exécutif, Madame la Directrice générale, Mesdames et Messieurs, je  voudrais, au nom de la délégation vietnamienne, féliciter chaleureusement Mme Zohour Alaoui pour son élection à la  Présidence de cette 39e session de notre Conférence générale. Je tiens à rendre hommage et à exprimer une sincère  reconnaissance à Mme Irina Bokova, Directrice générale de l’UNESCO, grande amie du Viet Nam, pour son courage,  son dévouement et ses grandes contributions à l’Organisation au cours de ses deux mandats. Je tiens également à  adresser de vives félicitations à Mme Audrey Azoulay, qui a été nommée par le Conseil exécutif au poste de Directrice  générale de l’UNESCO pour le mandat 2017-2021. Le Viet Nam lui souhaite plein de succès.
50.2 Mesdames et Messieurs, le monde dans lequel nous vivons connaît des évolutions rapides et complexes : la  quatrième révolution industrielle, qui crée de nombreuses opportunités, mais engendre aussi de nouveaux défis ; la  résurgence de l’extrémisme violent, du nationalisme, déstabilise et bouleverse tous les coins de notre planète. Il  conviendrait que les pays mettent en exergue le rôle des structures multilatérales, dont l’UNESCO, dans le règlement
243  des questions mondiales et universelles. Le mandat de l’UNESCO, construire la paix dans l’esprit des hommes et des  femmes en consolidant la coopération internationale dans les domaines de l’éducation, des sciences, de la culture et de  la communication, s’avère plus pertinent que jamais. En effet, l’UNESCO accompagne les pays dans leurs efforts pour  résoudre les questions mondiales ; réaliser les Objectifs de développement durable du Programme 2030 ; lutter contre la  pauvreté et l’ignorance ; promouvoir la diversité culturelle ; encourager le dialogue interculturel et la tolérance ; affronter  les risques émanant du changement climatique mais aussi des activités humaines comme la surexploitation des  ressources naturelles ; mettre sur pied des modèles de développement durable à travers les sites du patrimoine mondial,  les réserves de biosphère, les géoparcs mondiaux UNESCO ; agir en faveur des groupes vulnérables comme les  femmes, les enfants ; porter une attention et une aide particulières aux pays africains et aux petits États insulaires en  développement. L’UNESCO est ainsi l’organisation garante de la conscience, de la morale et de l’intelligence de  l’humanité.
50.3 Force est de constater néanmoins que l’UNESCO doit actuellement faire face à de nombreux défis et difficultés.  Il s’agit notamment d’affronter la forte baisse de ressources financières budgétaires, d’améliorer l’efficacité de son  fonctionnement, de choisir les priorités en adéquation avec ses objectifs et ses ressources. La présente session de la  Conférence générale revêt ainsi une grande signification. Elle offre en effet une bonne occasion de débattre de  nouvelles politiques, de nouvelles stratégies, de la bonne gouvernance de l’UNESCO. Ceci doit plus que jamais reposer  sur la solidarité de tous les pays membres et l’esprit de pleine responsabilité de chaque pays envers notre Organisation.
50.4 Mesdames et Messieurs, notre délégation se réjouit des résultats obtenus par consensus en ce qui concerne le  Projet de programme et de budget pour 2018-2019 lors du dernier Conseil exécutif. Étant l’un des pays les plus affectés  par le changement climatique, le Viet Nam approuve la Stratégie de l’UNESCO pour faire face au changement  climatique, ainsi que le projet de déclaration de principes éthiques en rapport avec le changement climatique. Nous  saluons particulièrement le rôle de chef de file de l’UNESCO dans la mise en œuvre de l’ODD 4 – Éducation 2030. Dans  notre pays, 20 % du budget d’État est consacré à l’éducation. Nous estimons que la culture est toujours un domaine de  grande valeur ajoutée et le plus fructueux de l’UNESCO. Nous apprécions hautement les résultats des programmes  MAB, MOST, Mémoire du monde et des géoparcs mondiaux.
50.5 Nous remercions le Groupe de travail sur la gouvernance pour son travail de grande qualité et nous prononçons  en faveur des recommandations de réforme qui tendent à rendre l’UNESCO plus transparente, plus efficace et inclusive.  Nous voudrions, en outre, souligner l’importance de renforcer davantage les bureaux hors Siège de l’UNESCO en leur  octroyant plus de moyens pour encourager leur action sur le terrain à l’appui des peuples et des communautés, qui rend  cette Organisation plus visible, plus pertinente.
50.6 Le Viet Nam attache toujours une grande importance à ses relations avec l’UNESCO. L’engagement du Viet  Nam en faveur des ODD du Programme 2030 se traduit par son Plan d’action national et son Programme d’action pour  le développement durable à l’horizon 2030. Pour la mise en œuvre de ces politiques, le Viet Nam ne ménage aucun  effort et coopère très étroitement avec l’UNESCO ainsi qu’avec d’autres institutions dans le cadre de l’initiative Unis dans  l’action des Nations Unies. Dans les temps à venir, le Viet Nam s’engage à continuer à collaborer avec tous les pays de  l’UNESCO, le Secrétariat, les bureaux régionaux et le Bureau de l’UNESCO à Hanoi pour la réalisation des objectifs  communs de l’Organisation. Je vous remercie pour votre aimable attention.
51. Le Président :  Je vous remercie, Excellence. Mesdames et Messieurs, c’était notre dernier État membre à prendre la parole ce  matin. Avant de poursuivre avec les déclarations des organisations non gouvernementales et intergouvernementales, j’ai  cru comprendre que la délégation d’Arménie avait demandé un droit de réponse. Cette déclaration sera livrée depuis  votre siège et sera limitée à deux minutes. Je donne la parole au représentant de l’Arménie. Excellence, vous avez la  parole.
52. Arménie :  Merci, Monsieur le Président. Nous regrettons profondément d’avoir demandé la parole à cette heure-ci pour  répondre aux deux déclarations de l’Azerbaïdjan, qui a dénaturé comme d’habitude la réalité en induisant en erreur cette  Assemblée. C’est l’Azerbaïdjan qui a organisé les massacres des Arméniens à Sumqayit, Kirovabad et Bakou en 1988-
1990, avant de lancer une guerre à grande échelle contre la population du Haut-Karabakh ayant exercé paisiblement  son droit à l’autodétermination. L’Azerbaïdjan manipule les dispositions des résolutions du Conseil de sécurité de l’ONU.  En réalité, aucune des résolutions n’identifie l’Arménie en tant que partie au conflit. Par contre, l’exigence principale de  cesser inconditionnellement les hostilités n’est pas respectée par l’Azerbaïdjan lui-même. Les autorités de l’Arménie et  de l’Artsakh poursuivent une politique de préservation et de sauvegarde du patrimoine culturel des chrétiens, des  musulmans et des autres religions, sans aucune distinction. Elles ont également rénové plusieurs mosquées  endommagées par la guerre. Il ne faut pas confondre la destruction du patrimoine culturel suite aux hostilités des années
1990 avec celles délibérément exécutées en temps de paix par les autorités azerbaïdjanaises. En Arménie, pays  monoethnique selon l’Azerbaïdjan, il existe de nombreux groupes ethniques et religieux qui exercent librement leurs  propres traditions, pratiquent leurs propres cultures et leurs langues et ont leurs représentants à l’Assemblée nationale,  avec un statut garanti par la Constitution. La politique officielle de l’Azerbaïdjan de haine anti-arménienne est reconnue  par les instances internationales spécialisées. On constate une culture croissante de l’impunité pour les crimes commis  contre les Arméniens. La glorification par la plus haute autorité de l’Azerbaïdjan du militaire Ramil Safarov, qui a tué à  coups de hache son collègue arménien dans son sommeil en est une triste preuve. Merci, Monsieur le Président.
53. Le Président :  Merci, Votre Excellence. Mesdames et Messieurs, nous allons maintenant passer aux déclarations  d’organisations non gouvernementales et intergouvernementales. Je voudrais rappeler aux représentants que leurs
244  déclarations à la Conférence générale seront limitées à trois minutes. J’ai le plaisir de donner la parole à notre prochain  orateur, M. Ghislain Le Ray, représentant de Pax Christi International.
54.1 M. Le Ray (Pax Christi International) :   Monsieur le Président, Mesdames et Messieurs, le mouvement Pax Christi est né en 1945, suite à la Seconde  Guerre mondiale, pour la réconciliation franco-allemande. Mais, très vite, il devient international. Il fédère
120 associations dans le monde, réparties dans plus de 50 pays, travaillant pour la réconciliation, la justice et la paix.  Depuis son origine, il milite pour le désarmement. C’est pourquoi nous sommes très heureux de l’adoption, le 7 juillet  dernier à l’ONU, par 122 pays, du Traité sur l’interdiction des armes nucléaires, qui est ouvert à la signature des États. Et  nous nous félicitons de l’attribution du prix Nobel de la paix, le 6 octobre, à la Campagne internationale pour abolir les  armes nucléaires (ICAN), à laquelle participe Pax Christi International.
54.2 Pax Christi International s’implique aussi dans l’éducation à la paix, la résolution non violente des conflits, le  respect des droits de l’homme. La Décennie internationale de la promotion d’une culture de la non-violence et de la paix  au profit des enfants du monde (2001-2010), dont l’UNESCO était le chef de file, était porteuse d’une grande ambition et  était un appel à l’action pour tous. Cette ambition doit rester d’actualité : aujourd’hui, plus que jamais, il faut diffuser une  culture de la paix et de la non-violence dans les écoles, les familles, sur le lieu de travail, sur les terrains de sport et dans  les activités de loisirs. Par son immense expertise, l’UNESCO peut considérablement contribuer à éviter les conflits  violents et y mettre fin de façon paisible. L’UNESCO a, en effet, à sa disposition, un arsenal d’instruments créatifs non  violents, tels que des échanges culturels de haut niveau, des conférences, des reconnaissances en matière de  patrimoine culturel, qui favorisent la construction d’une paix juste. Nerhu a affirmé que l’UNESCO était la conscience du  monde. Elle a, plus que jamais, un rôle de vecteur de paix à jouer. Je vous remercie de votre attention.
55. Le Président :  Je vous remercie. Notre prochaine oratrice est Mme Martine Lévy, représentante de l’Association mondiale des  guides et des éclaireuses (AMGE).
56.1 Mme Lévy (Association mondiale des guides et des éclaireuses (AMGE)) :   Monsieur le Président de la Conférence générale, Madame la Directrice générale, Excellences, Mesdames et  Messieurs, chers amis des ONG, je parle ici au nom de l’Association mondiale des guides et des éclaireuses, le  scoutisme féminin mondial, plus connue sous le nom d’AMGE. L’Association représente plus de 10 millions de filles dans
150 pays du monde.
56.2 Dans le domaine de l’éducation non formelle, l’approche de l’AMGE est unique ; elle offre aux filles et aux  jeunes femmes, y compris dans les camps de réfugiés et dans les villages les plus reculés, des possibilités de  développer leur confiance, leur leadership et des compétences pour la vie. Mais, chacun le sait, l’éducation non formelle  est complémentaire de l’éducation formelle. Et l’AMGE, qui est dotée du statut consultatif général auprès du Conseil  économique et social des Nations Unies et qui est partenaire de l’UNESCO, est donc évidemment très concernée par les  Objectifs de développement durable et, en particulier, l’ODD 4 du Programme 2030 : l’accès à une éducation de qualité.  L’AMGE a donc décidé de célébrer la Journée internationale de la fille le 11 octobre 2017 en se concentrant sur  l’éducation à laquelle tant de filles et de jeunes femmes dans le monde souhaitent accéder. Elle dénonce les freins qui  empêchent les filles d’aller à l’école : la pauvreté, la violence sexiste, le manque de confiance en soi, le harcèlement,  l’accès aux produits d’hygiène, en particulier lors des menstruations, les viols, les grossesses précoces, l’absence de  toilettes séparées entre les filles et les garçons, l’absence d’installations sanitaires et d’eau potable, ce qui met souvent  les filles dans une situation vulnérable, les mines et les soldats sur le chemin de l’école, le coût trop élevé de l’école qui  fait que les parents décident d’envoyer les garçons à l’école plutôt que les filles, l’accessibilité des enfants présentant un  handicap, l’école trop éloignée et l’absence de moyens de transport, le fait d’être contraintes de se marier très jeunes, la  nécessité de travailler pour gagner de l’argent et aider la famille, l’aide aux travaux ménagers, etc.
56.3 L’Association clame haut et fort au monde que 130 millions de filles n’ont pas accès à l’éducation alors qu’elles  méritent d’aller à l’école, que c’est un droit humain fondamental ; affirme qu’il est temps de dire que l’éducation de  chaque fille dans le monde doit devenir une réalité ; réclame que des mesures soient prises pour remédier aux obstacles  qui empêchent les filles et les jeunes femmes d’accéder à l’éducation ; et déclare que toutes les filles, partout dans le  monde, doivent recevoir une éducation afin d’exploiter tout leur potentiel. C’est dans ce cadre-là que l’AMGE apporte  son concours au groupe de travail des ONG partenaires de l’UNESCO qui prépare la Journée internationale de la fille du
11 octobre 2018, avec, bien entendu, en trame de fond, l’ODD 4. Je vous remercie pour votre attention.
57. Le Président :  Je vous remercie, Madame. Notre prochain orateur est M. Olivier Duval, Président du Bureau international  catholique de l’enfance (BICE).
58.1 M. Duval (Bureau international catholique de l’enfance (BICE)) :  Monsieur le Président, Madame la Directrice générale, Excellences, Mesdames et Messieurs, à la présente  déclaration du Bureau international catholique de l’enfance s’associent les organisations suivantes : l’Association  européenne des facultés libres, la Jeunesse étudiante catholique internationale, le Mouvement international des  étudiants catholiques-Pax Romana et Humanité nouvelle. Pour le BICE et son réseau de plus de 80 organisations  membres à travers le monde, le droit et l’accès à l’éducation sont fondamentaux. Au regard de l’intérêt supérieur de  l’enfant, ils supposent notamment l’éducation et la formation aux droits de l’homme et le soutien à la plénitude de la  capacité de résilience chez les enfants, tout particulièrement chez ceux qui vivent dans les milieux les plus défavorisés  et ceux qui sont en situation de handicap.
58.2 Les délégués au Congrès international du BICE « Droit à l’éducation – éducation aux droits :expériences  partagées », qui s’est déroulé à Paris le 7 juin 2017, ont soutenu que cela requérait la protection et des garanties pour  l’exercice du droit à l’éducation pour tout enfant, sans discrimination aucune, la création et le développement d’espaces,  d’outils et de méthodes susceptibles de contribuer à la formation intégrale des enfants, de même qu’à l’intégration de  leurs familles dans le processus éducatif. Les conclusions du Congrès préconisent : (i) un accès renforcé pour tout  enfant aux nouvelles technologies, tout en luttant contre les risques qu’elles peuvent représenter pour eux, (ii) une  nécessaire mutation du rôle de l’enseignant de « dispensateur » d’informations et de connaissances en « facilitateur » de  l’apprentissage, (iii) ainsi qu’un ancrage de l’éducation aux droits de l’homme dans les systèmes éducatifs.
58.3 En tant qu’organisation entretenant des relations opérationnelles avec l’UNESCO, le BICE se réjouit de la  collaboration avec cette institution, notamment à travers le projet École sans murs, réalisé en lien avec notre partenaire  local, Callescuela, à Asunción, au Paraguay, et en partie financé par le Programme de participation de l’UNESCO. Ce  partenariat positif et fécond témoigne de la volonté de l’UNESCO d’assurer l’accès à l’éducation dans les zones où,  parfois, l’État est absent mais où les organisations de la société civile, comme le BICE, n’abandonnent pas les enfants.  Merci de votre attention.
59. Le Président :   Merci. Notre prochain orateur est M. Richard Apeh, représentant de la Jeunesse étudiante catholique  internationale (JECI).
60.1. Mr Apeh (International Young Catholic Students (IYCS)):   Madam President of the 39th session of the General Conference of UNESCO, Director-General, Excellencies,  distinguished ladies and gentlemen. I would like to congratulate the new Director-General, Ms Audrey Azoulay on her  election, and thank Ms Irina Bokova for her outstanding service as outgoing Director-General of UNESCO. The  International Young Catholic Students is present in 86 countries around the world and has continued to act and advocate  for a peaceful and just world promoting sustainable human development especially for young people. In 2015, several  world leaders gathered at the United Nations to decide the fate of the planet and its people for peace and prosperity with  the adoption of the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). Central to achieving this global agenda is the situation to  ensure inclusive and equitable quality education and promote lifelong learning opportunities for all by 2030.
60.2 Key claims for education are that it provides individuals with a road to a better life; better possibilities of fulfilment  and prosperity; and greater chances for social, political and economic participation. However, while many people are  able to use education as a springboard to a more economically and socially secured existence, this is by no means  universal due to the marginalization of all forms and constructs. This is evident from the 2016 UNESCO Global Education  Monitoring Report which indicated that about 750 million young people and adults cannot read or write, and 250 million  children are failing to acquire basic literacy skills. Quality education, where it exists, is an exclusive preserve of the elite.  How then can we achieve the vision to “Leave no one behind” if the vast majority of people who need education cannot  afford or access it? As a strong voice for students across the world since the 1920s, the International Young Catholic  Students reiterates a call for governments across the world, especially those of you here, to create stronger formal and  non-formal education assistance that addresses all forms of exclusion and marginalization, disparities and inequalities in  access but especially in learning outcomes.
60.3 To meet the current educational needs, we call on all government leaders to embrace progressive universality –  an approach in pursuing quality education for all while prioritizing education in the early years of a child’s life and  reaching out to the most disadvantaged populations where social returns are the highest. Quality education should also  take into account the physical safety of the learning environment, where the students can really feel at home, where  everyone’s diversity is welcome and unique and can enhance the learning environment. So today, I stand as a strong  voice for the millions of young people across the world to remind all of you seated here that every child, in every country,  in every neighbourhood, in every household, has the right not only to sit in a classroom, but to a quality education. So I  implore you to invest in education, invest in quality, invest in equity, and ensure that indeed no one is left behind. Thank  you.
61. Le Président :   Merci beaucoup. Notre prochaine oratrice est Mme Chantal Grevin, représentante d’Humanité nouvelle.
62.1 Mme Grevin (Humanité nouvelle) :   Monsieur le Président, Madame la Directrice générale, Excellences, Mesdames, Messieurs, comment mettre un  terme à l’extrémisme violent ? Comment donner à la jeunesse de nos pays l’espoir de la paix ? L’UNESCO a développé  depuis 2012 dans ses programmes un outil conceptuel qui a un énorme potentiel : la citoyenneté mondiale. De même  que l’UNESCO a eu l’audace en 1978 de parler du « patrimoine mondial de l’humanité », dépassant ainsi par la pensée  le cadre national, de même aujourd’hui l’UNESCO avance la notion de « citoyenneté mondiale ». Les défis de la planète  aujourd’hui l’exigent.
62.2 Depuis 1996, les jeunes de l’ONG Humanité nouvelle portent l’idée d’un monde uni. Les « Jeunes pour un  monde uni », comme ils se définissent, empruntent toutes les voies possibles pour construire la fraternité universelle,  sont engagés dans des campagnes internationales de soutien de la paix, agissent au quotidien en multipliant les  « fragments de fraternité » qu’ils produisent et qu’ils découvrent chez les autres (actions en faveur des plus nécessiteux,  des personnes seules, des immigrés, des victimes de catastrophe). En les rassemblant, ils voient que leur rêve est  possible et réalisable. Chaque année, pendant la Semaine Monde Uni, ils se rejoignent, physiquement en un point du  globe et virtuellement par Internet, pour rendre visibles les actions de fraternité qu’ils entreprennent, que d’autres ONG  entreprennent, pour que les gouvernants de leur pays voient que le monde uni est en marche, non seulement dans leur  pays, mais sur tous les continents. Ils aimeraient que cette Semaine Monde Uni puisse être reconnue par l’ONU et
246  devienne le patrimoine de tous, un instrument permettant de devenir citoyens du monde. D’autres ONG s’associent à ce  plaidoyer en faveur de l’éducation à la citoyenneté mondiale : le BICE, l’OIEC, d’autres encore. C’est cela que les jeunes  m’ont chargée de vous dire aujourd’hui, et ils veulent que vous sachiez qu’ils sont heureux de joindre leurs fragments de  fraternité aux vôtres, pour que l’article premier de la Déclaration universelle des droits de l’homme ne soit pas un vain  mot : « Tous les êtres humains […] doivent agir les uns envers les autres dans un esprit de fraternité ». Merci pour votre  attention.
63. Le Président :   Merci, Madame. Notre prochain orateur est M. Oleg Curbatov, de l’Association internationale des professeurs et  maîtres de conférences des universités (IAUPL).
64.1 M. Curbatov (Association internationale des professeurs et maîtres de conférences des universités (IAUPL)) :   Madame la Présidente de la 39e session de la Conférence générale de l’UNESCO, Madame la Directrice  générale de l’UNESCO, Excellences, Mesdames et Messieurs, Votre Excellence, M. Gherairi, chers collègues,  l’Association internationale des professeurs et maîtres de conférences des universités félicite Madame la Directrice Irina  Bokova pour les missions accomplies pendant son mandat, et remercie l’UNESCO pour le patronage accordé à notre  manifestation académique.
64.2 Nous avons la charge de parler au nom de l’Association internationale des professeurs et maîtres de  conférences des universités, qui a été créée en 1944, dans la grande tourmente de la Seconde Guerre mondiale, par les  universitaires européens réfugiés en Angleterre, parmi lesquels figurait le professeur René Cassin, futur prix Nobel.  Cette année, l’IAUPL célèbre le 70e anniversaire de ses relations avec l’UNESCO et exprime sa position favorable  concernant l’adhésion aux Objectifs de développement durable et notamment à l’agenda Éducation 2030.
64.3 Depuis la création de l’IAUPL, les conditions ont changé. Nous sommes confrontés à d’autres enjeux. Mais nous  sommes toujours favorables à la liberté académique et à la défense des universitaires. Dans la conception de l’IAUPL, la  reconnaissance de l’enseignement supérieur, et notamment la cible ODD 4.3, ne pourra se concevoir que dans le ferme  attachement à un certain nombre de valeurs, parmi lesquelles se trouve la liberté académique. Or, l’IAUPL observe que  certains États membres restreignent leur politique nationale à travers la législation et qu’ils restreignent également les  conditions professionnelles des universitaires fondées sur la liberté académique. Notre Association est vigilante à cet  égard et appelle les universitaires à se mobiliser pour parvenir à atteindre les Objectifs de développement durable, pour  la réussite de l’UNESCO. Nous pensons aussi que la liberté académique constitue un vecteur de la qualité de  l’enseignement supérieur et de l’apprentissage des professeurs.
64.4 Mesdames et Messieurs, la société civile participe aussi à la construction de la paix. Je saisis cette occasion  pour mentionner les contributions de l’IAUPL à l’organisation du forum récent « Partenariat France-Russie :  enseignement supérieur, recherche, innovations et dialogue au sein de la société civile ». C’est la première fois que les  ONG participent non seulement au dialogue entre la société civile et leurs États, mais contribuent aussi à faciliter le  dialogue entre les États.
64.5 Mesdames et Messieurs, la dernière observation de notre Association concerne la reconnaissance du  patrimoine culturel immatériel des universitaires. Nous appelons à respecter et à reconnaître ce patrimoine dans le  dialogue transgénérationnel et transculturel. On parle souvent de jeunes professeurs et de jeunes maîtres de  conférences, de la dimension transgénérationnelle, et c’est ainsi que se construit la paix, en s’appuyant sur la jeunesse,  car les universitaires sont capables de construire la paix de manière libre. Je vous remercie.
65. Le Président :   Je vous remercie. Notre prochain orateur est M. Bertrand Doncieux, représentant de Droit à l’éducation et liberté  d’enseignement (OIDEL).
66.1 M. Doncieux (Droit à l’éducation et liberté d’enseignement (OIDEL)) :   Madame la Présidente de la 39e session de la Conférence générale, Madame la Directrice générale,  Excellences, Mesdames et Messieurs, cette déclaration orale est aussi soutenue par la JECI, Humanité nouvelle, l’OIEC,  le BICE, l’AEFLIB et les chaires UNESCO des universités de Bergame et de La Rioja. Notre intervention porte sur la  partie du Rapport de la Directrice générale concernant les activités de l’UNESCO dans le domaine du droit à l’éducation.  Nous voulons souligner en premier lieu la qualité du Rapport, son exhaustivité et sa systématisation. Néanmoins, il nous  semble que le rôle de la société civile n’y est pas suffisamment pris en compte. En effet, Éducation 2030 suppose un vrai  changement de paradigme dans la conception de l’éducation, ainsi que dans sa mise en œuvre. Ce changement a été  bien mis en lumière par l’excellent rapport : Repenser l’éducation : vers un bien commun mondial ? Dans le cadre  d’action Éducation 2030, cette approche participative est fortement mise en avant, ainsi que le rôle de la société civile  dans l’évaluation des politiques éducatives. Évaluer le degré de mise en œuvre est une tâche conjointe de l’État et de la  société civile, qui doit intervenir et être impliquée à tous les stades, de la planification à l’évaluation : « Les organisations  de la société civile – je cite le Cadre d’action Éducation 2030 -, notamment les coalitions et les réseaux diversifiés et  représentatifs, jouent aussi un rôle essentiel. Elles doivent être engagées et impliquées à tous les stades, depuis la  planification jusqu’au suivi et à l’évaluation, et leur participation doit être institutionnalisée et garantie ».
66.2 Notre organisation, OIDEL, a pris au sérieux cette mission. Elle travaille à la constitution d’un groupe d’ONG sur  le droit à l’éducation auprès de l’UNESCO et vient de présenter un premier Rapport sur la situation du droit à l’éducation  dans le monde, fruit d’une collaboration avec le Collège universitaire Henry Dunant. Il s’agit d’un mécanisme  international de surveillance qui analyse plusieurs domaines : les législations et politiques publiques, la jurisprudence  nationale et le suivi des débats publics (médias, rassemblements ou événements de grande ampleur). Ce premier  Rapport regroupe 42 pays, déclinés en une fiche chacun, qui résume les nouvelles concernant les trois domaines ci-
247  dessus. Le Rapport présente aussi une vision d’ensemble globale. Les informations proviennent de sites officiels de  l’État ou de médias en ligne. Elles ont été retranscrites avec le plus de précisions possible (numéro pour les législations,  politiques publiques, plans nationaux et jurisprudences). Le Rapport est actuellement disponible en ligne. Merci,  Monsieur le Président.  Item 1.2: Establishment of the Credentials Committee and report by the Committee to the General Conference  Point 1.2 : Constitution du Comité de vérification des pouvoirs et rapport du Comité à la Conférence générale  Punto 1.2: Constitución del Comité de Verificación de Poderes e informe del Comité a la Conferencia General  Пункт 1.2: Учреждение Комитета по проверке полномочий и его доклад Генеральной конференции  لجنة فحص وثائق االعتماد وتقديم تقرير اللجنة إلى المؤتمر العام تشكيل: ١,٢ند الب    项目 1.2: 成立全权证书委员会及该委员会向大会报告
67. Le Président :   Je vous remercie. Mesdames et Messieurs, c’était notre dernière intervention aujourd’hui. Avant de clore la  séance, nous allons examiner le deuxième rapport du Président du Comité de vérification des pouvoirs. Je donne ainsi la  parole à M. Rodríguez Duvergé (République dominicaine), Président de ce comité. Monsieur, vous avez la parole.
(68.1) M. Rodríguez Duvergé (République dominicaine) (Président de Comité de vérification des pouvoirs)   (traduit de l’espagnol) :  Monsieur le Président du Conseil exécutif, Madame la Directrice générale, Excellences, Mesdames et Messieurs, j’ai  l’honneur de présenter mon deuxième rapport en qualité de Président du Comité de vérification des pouvoirs.
(68.2) Depuis le premier rapport que j’ai soumis à la Conférence générale à sa séance plénière du 1er novembre 2017, le  Comité a reçu les pouvoirs en bonne et due forme des États membres suivants : Barbade, Comores, Haïti et Soudan du Sud.  Le Comité a également reçu les pouvoirs en bonne et due forme des États membres ci-après, qui avaient précédemment  présenté des pouvoirs provisoires : Autriche et Cabo Verde. Enfin, le Comité a reçu les pouvoirs provisoires de la Guinée- Bissau.
(68.3) En vertu de l’autorisation que m’a conférée le Comité de vérification des pouvoirs, je propose que la Conférence  générale accepte ces pouvoirs. Les délégations des États membres dont les noms apparaissent à l’écran n’ont pas présenté  leurs pouvoirs. Les délégations des Membres associés ci-après n’ont pas non plus présenté leurs pouvoirs : Anguilla, Îles  Caïmanes, Îles Vierges britanniques, Macao (Chine), Montserrat, Nouvelle-Calédonie et Tokélaou. Enfin, la délégation du  Liechtenstein (observateur) n’a pas non plus présenté de pouvoirs. Voilà pour le deuxième rapport du Comité de vérification  des pouvoirs. Je vous remercie.
70. Le Président :  Nous avons ce matin une tâche toute aussi importante, qui est celle d’examiner le rapport de la Commission  APX sur le point 1.3 : « Rapport de la Directrice générale sur les communications reçues des États membres invoquant  les dispositions de l’article IV.C, paragraphe 8 (c), de l’Acte constitutif ». Madame la Présidente de la Commission APX,  vous avez la parole.
(71.1) Mme Sol de Pool (El Salvador) (Présidente de la Commission APX) (traduit de l’espagnol):   Je vous remercie. Je vais m’exprimer en anglais car le rapport est rédigé dans cette langue et n’a pu être traduit, faute  de temps.   (The speaker continues in English)
71.2 Mr President of the General Conference, Mr Chairperson of the Executive Board, Madam Director-General,  Excellencies. Please allow me to submit to you the report on the work of the APX Commission on item 1.3 which is the  “Report of the Director-General on communications received from Member States invoking the provisions of Article IV.C,  paragraph 8 (c), of the Constitution”. In accordance with Article 83 of the Rules of Procedure of the General Conference,  the APX Commission started its work on the item related to the communications received from Member States invoking  the provisions of Article IV.C, paragraph 8 (c) of the Constitution.
71.3 As customary, the Commission set up a working group in charge of the preparation of its recommendation. This  group was composed of El Salvador (Ms Rosa Moreira de Lemoine), Germany (Mr Stefan Krawielicki), Indonesia  (Ms Djatu R. Primadini), Namibia (Mr Felix Amporo), Oman (Ms Yara Alghafri) and Slovenia (Ms Marjutka Hafner), thus  representing all electoral groups. The working group, chaired by Germany, met three times from 31 October to
71.4 Madam President, I should like to recall that the deadline for submissions of communications by Member States  was Thursday 2 November at 10 a.m. All Member States that had submitted their communications by this date were  permitted to continue to vote until such time that the General Conference in plenary meeting decided otherwise, on the  basis of the report of the APX Commission.
71.5 At the first meeting of 31 October at 11:45 a.m., the working group noted that 15 Member States were at risk of  losing their voting rights. These were: Antigua and Barbuda, Comoros, Gabon, Guinea-Bissau, Israel, Libya, Federated  States of Micronesia, Sao Tome and Principe, Somalia, South Sudan, Sudan, Tajikistan, Timor-Leste, and the United  States of America and Yemen. By Thursday 2 November at 10 a.m., of these 15 Member States, eight countries had  presented, within the specified time limit, their communications requesting authorization to vote, in conformity with  Article IV, paragraph 8 (c) of the Constitution. These were: Guinea-Bissau, Libya, Somalia, South Sudan, Sudan,  Tajikistan, Timor-Leste and Yemen. After the preliminary consideration of the communications, the working group felt  that more information was needed from three Member States and decided to invite their representatives. All accepted  this invitation.
71.6 Madam President, the members of the working group carried out a thorough case-by-case basis analysis of the  information presented by those eight countries for its consideration. The Chairperson presented the working group’s  conclusions to the APX Commission this morning, Saturday 4 November.
71.7 The APX Commission, after careful examination of the conclusions of the working group, gave favourable  consideration to the requests of Guinea-Bissau, Somalia, South Sudan, Sudan, Tajikistan, Timor-Leste and Yemen,  which were deemed in accordance with the provisions of Article 83 of the Rules of Procedure of the General Conference,  and 30 C/Resolution 82. As such, the APX Commission has recommended that these States retain their right to vote at  the 39th session of the General Conference. The APX Commission also endorsed the recommendation of the working  group that voting rights cannot be granted to Libya at the 39th session of the General Conference.
71.8 Finally, allow me to recall that the working group on voting rights, based on its work accomplished at the last  session of the General Conference, made a proposal to amend Rule 82 of the Rules of Procedure of the General  Conference. This amendment aims at ensuring continuity and efficiency in the future work of the working group on voting  rights. The amendment has been integrated into the consolidated recommendation of the open-ended working group on  governance, procedures and working methods of the governing bodies of UNESCO and contained in document 39 C/20.  The APX Commission will examine this proposal under item 5.1 of the provisional agenda of the General Conference. I  will report on its outcome when I present my oral report on the work of the APX Commission to the plenary.
71.9 Madam President, in my capacity as Chairperson of the APX Commission, I am submitting the resolution  recommended by the APX Commission for adoption by the plenary meeting of the General Conference. With your  indulgence, I propose that this decision be taken without debate in line with past practice. Thank you for your attention.
72.1 Le Président :  Merci beaucoup, Mme Sol de Pool. Chers collègues, puis-je considérer que la Conférence générale approuve  par consensus les recommandations faites par la Commission APX ? Il en est ainsi décidé et je vous en remercie.
72.2 Mesdames et Messieurs, à la suite des rapports du Président du Comité de vérification des pouvoirs sur les  pouvoirs valides présentés à ce jour, et de ceux de la Présidente de la Commission APX que la Conférence générale  vient de recevoir à l’instant, je vais maintenant lire la liste des États membres qui n’auront pas le droit de vote lors de la
39e session de cette Conférence générale : Antigua-et-Barbuda, Comores, les États-Unis d’Amérique, le Gabon, les Îles  Marshall, Israël, Kiribati, la Libye, les États fédérés de Micronésie, Sao Tomé-et-Principe, Sierra Leone, Trinité-et- Tobago.
72.3 Mesdames et Messieurs, cela nous amène à la conclusion de notre séance de ce matin. La plénière se réunira  de nouveau lundi matin pour entendre les dernières déclarations nationales et la réponse de la Directrice générale. Je  vous souhaite un excellent week-end. La séance est close.  The meeting rose at 1.45 p.m.  La séance est levée à 13 h 45  Se levanta la sesión a las 13.45  Заседание закрывается в 13.45  الظهر بعد ,٥٤١ الساعة يف اجللسة رفعت   会议于 13 时 45 分结束